FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20070507163034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 40.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
  
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On May 7, 2007, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
  
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d)     Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2007, were $24.2 billion compared to $22.8 billion a year ago. Fourth-quarter earnings per diluted share was 85 cents compared to 70 cents per diluted share a year ago. Fourth-quarter earnings per diluted share from continuing operations excluding adjustments to Securities Litigation reserves was 85 cents compared to 69 cents a year ago.
SAN FRANCISCO, May 7, 2007 
     For the full fiscal year, McKesson had revenues of $93.0 billion versus $87.0 billion a year ago, and earnings per diluted share of $2.99 compared to $2.38 a year ago. Earnings per diluted share from continuing operations excluding adjustments to Securities Litigation reserves for the full year was $2.89 compared to $2.46 a year ago.
 
     "McKesson's outstanding earnings growth for the quarter and for the year is the result of great execution across the company," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "We are seeing the benefits of our strategy to deliver products, services and solutions that are helping our customers make healthcare safer, more efficient and higher quality. Our financial performance, operating excellence and strategic capital deployment provide great momentum for Fiscal 2008."
     "Pharmaceutical Solutions full-year operating margin rate expanded to 1.53%, an increase of 8 basis points, a strong performance considering we had $95 million in positive anti-trust settlements a year ago compared to $10 million this year. Medical-Surgical Solutions grew revenues 16% while completing a seamless transition out of the acute care business. Provider Technologies revenues grew 24% and operating profit increased 11% even as we continued to make significant investments in product development, sales force expansion and acquisitions to expand our offering and strengthen our positions in emerging markets."
     For the year, McKesson had cash flow from operations of $1.5 billion. The company continues to execute a balanced capital deployment strategy designed to create additional shareholder value. During Fiscal 2007, McKesson made $1.9 billion of acquisitions, including the acquisition of Per-Se Technologies on January 26 for $1.8 billion, repurchased $1 billion of its shares, paid $72 million in dividends and invested $306 million in property, plant, equipment and capitalized software.
     During the quarter, McKesson issued $1 billion in debt to finance its purchase of Per-Se. The company ended the year with a cash balance of $2 billion and a gross debt-to-capital ratio of 24%. During the fourth quarter, McKesson repurchased $247 million of stock, completing the previously authorized repurchase program. At its most recent meeting, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion share repurchase program.
 
Segment Results
     Pharmaceutical Solutions revenues were up 5% for the fourth quarter and 6% for the year. U.S. Healthcare direct distribution revenues grew 4% for the quarter and 5% for the year despite the mid-May 2006 termination of a customer contract with annual sales of approximately $3.3 billion. Warehouse sales increased 7% in the quarter and 8% for the year. For the quarter and the year, Canadian revenues increased 13%, including a negative 2% currency impact for the quarter and a 5% currency benefit for the year.
     Pharmaceutical Solutions gross profit of $794 million was up 16% from the fourth quarter a year ago. Full-year gross profit of $2.8 billion was up 11% from a year ago. The increases in gross profit for the quarter and year resulted from an improved mix of higher-margin products and services, stable sell margin to customers and the impact of our agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers.
     Gross profit in the fourth quarter included a $26 million pre-tax LIFO credit compared to $12 million in the fourth quarter a year ago. For the full year, the pre-tax LIFO credit was $64 million compared to $32 million a year ago. Gross profit in Fiscal 2007 included $10 million in pre-tax gains from anti-trust settlements compared to $95 million for Fiscal 2006.
     Operating margin rate for the fourth quarter was 1.77% compared to 1.61% a year ago, and was 1.53% for the full year compared to 1.45% a year ago.
     "Our success at expanding our operating margin comes from our dedication to increasing the higher-margin products and services we provide to our customers, disciplined execution with customer contract renewals and focus on operating expense efficiencies," said Hammergren.
 
     Medical-Surgical Solutions revenues were up 13% in the fourth quarter and 16% for the full year, both of which reflect above-market growth across the business and the acquisition of Sterling Medical in April 2006. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues was 30% for the quarter and 29% for the year. Operating profit in the fourth quarter was $11 million compared to $16 million a year ago, and for the full year was $81 million compared to $83 million a year ago.
     In Provider Technologies, revenues were up 39% for the quarter and 24% for the full year, reflecting continued strong demand for clinical software and imaging solutions, increased implementations and the impact of Per-Se revenues. Software and software systems revenues increased 7% for the quarter and 16% for the full year.
     Provider Technologies' operating profit in the fourth quarter was $51 million, up 6% from the fourth quarter a year ago, and for the full year was $159 million, up 11%. Operating expenses were up 45% for the quarter and 27% for the year due to the impact of Per-Se and other acquisitions, new product development investments, sales force expansion, restructurings and equity-based compensation expense allocated to this segment. Operating margin rate was 8.54% for the quarter and 8.35% for the year.
     "Over the past year, Provider Technologies solidified its leadership position for comprehensive information solutions in its traditional core hospital customer base," Hammergren said. "We also moved aggressively with strategic acquisitions to expand our positions in physician office information solutions, consumer-directed healthcare and healthcare connectivity. The integration of those acquisitions into our business is well under way. Demand remains strong, especially for our market-leading medical imaging solutions, and we continue to benefit from an improved pace of implementations to pull revenue from our software backlog."
 
Fiscal Year 2008 Outlook
     "Based on the demonstrated value of our product and service offering, our operating progress and strategic investments, McKesson enters Fiscal 2008 well-positioned for growth in both existing and emerging markets for healthcare services and healthcare information technology," Hammergren continued.
     "We are the largest pharmaceutical distributor in the United States and Canada, and own 49% of the leading pharmaceutical distributor in Mexico. We are the largest distributor of generics in North America, at a time when the consumption of these drugs is growing due to their great value. We are well-positioned in the attractive alternate site medical-surgical market."
     "Software and automation solutions that can improve the efficiency and quality of healthcare have tremendous value for our customers. We continue to see strong demand for our solutions from our large installed base of hospital and payor customers. We have unique offerings for the emerging sectors of the market and are using technology to connect all participants across the healthcare spectrum."
     "Based on this positive momentum, for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2008, McKesson expects to earn between $3.15 and $3.30 per diluted share. A strong balance sheet and solid operating cash flow provide resources to further the creation of additional shareholder value," Hammergren concluded.
Key Assumptions for Fiscal Year 2008 Outlook
The Fiscal 2008 outlook is based on the key assumptions provided below and is also subject to the Risk Factors provided below in this press release.
 
 
Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Corporate and Financial Highlights
The quarter and year included the following additional major highlights:
 
 
Risk Factors
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "should", "seeks", "approximately", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The discussion of financial trends, strategy, plans or intentions may also include forward-looking statements. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties; however, the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: adverse resolution of pending securities litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including changes in government regulations and the impact of potential future mandated benefits; competition; changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; governmental and manufacturers' efforts to regulate or control the pharmaceutical supply chain; changes in government regulations relating to patient confidentiality standards; changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical manufacturers' pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices; changes in the availability or pricing of branded and generic drugs; changes in customer mix; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's internally used or externally sold software and software systems, or the slowing or deferral of demand or extension of the sales cycle for external software products; continued access to third-party licenses for software and the patent positions of the company's proprietary software; the company's ability to meet performance requirements in its disease management programs; the adequacy of insurance to cover liability or loss claims; changes in circumstances that could impair our goodwill or intangible assets; new or revised tax legislation; foreign currency fluctuations or disruptions to foreign operations; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
 
     . Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, which are located on the company's website.
A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM ET today and on replay afterwards
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) is a Fortune 18 healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes and improving the quality and safety of patient care. Over the course of its 174-year history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at .
www.mckesson.com
CONTACT: Larry Kurtz, 415-983-8418 (Investors and Financial Press) larry.kurtz@mckesson.com Kate Rohrbach 415-983-9023 (Business and Trade Media) kate.rohrbach@mckesson.com
 
Schedule I
 
 
 
Schedule II
 
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


