FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20070125162046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 25, 2007, the McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for its third quarter of fiscal year 2007, ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the third quarter ended December 31, 2006, were $23.1 billion, an increase of 4% from $22.2 billion in the third quarter a year ago. Third quarter net income was $243 million, up 26% from $193 million a year ago, and diluted earnings per share was 80 cents, up 31% from 61 cents a year ago. Third quarter income from continuing operations was $240 million, up 18% from $204 million a year ago, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was 79 cents, up 23% from 64 cents a year ago.
SAN FRANCISCO, January 25, 2007 
     "Our earnings momentum continued in the third quarter, led by another excellent performance in Pharmaceutical Solutions, which was supported by continued solid results in our other two segments," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "Our Pharmaceutical Solutions operating profit margin expanded by 10 basis points and by 27 basis points when you adjust for a $37 million pre-tax gain from an anti-trust settlement in the third quarter a year ago. Our significant margin expansion stems from the team's focus on continually providing more higher-margin products and services to our customers and leveraging our scale."
 
     "In Medical-Surgical Solutions, we had double-digit revenue growth with gross profit margin expansion. The right-sizing of our continuing business and the transition of our former acute care business are proceeding on schedule and according to plan. In Provider Technologies, we showed solid revenue and profit growth considering the very strong third quarter we had a year ago and our continued investments designed to drive future growth."
     During the third quarter of Fiscal 2007, McKesson repurchased approximately $100 million of common stock. The company has approximately $250 million remaining on its existing share repurchase authorization. Over the past seven quarters, cumulative share repurchases exceeded $1.7 billion. Cash flow from operations for the first nine months was $555 million, reflecting the historical third quarter seasonal build-up of working capital in Pharmaceutical Solutions. McKesson ended the quarter with a cash balance of $2 billion and a gross debt-to-capital ratio of 14%.
Segment Results
     Pharmaceutical Solutions revenues were up 3% for the third quarter compared to the third quarter a year ago. U.S. Healthcare direct distribution revenues grew 2%, reflecting the termination of a large customer contract which had revenues of approximately $800 million in the third quarter a year ago. Direct revenues were up 9% adjusting for the loss of this contract. Warehouse sales revenues increased 5%. Canadian revenues increased 10%, including a positive currency impact of 3%.
     Pharmaceutical Solutions gross profit of $671 million was up 5% from $642 million in the third quarter a year ago, resulting from an increased mix of higher-margin products and services, while sell margin to customers remained stable. Gross profit in the quarter included an $18 million pre-tax LIFO credit compared to a pre-tax credit of $10 million a year ago. Gross profit in the third quarter a year ago included a $37 million pre-tax gain from an anti-trust settlement.
 
     Pharmaceutical Solutions operating expenses were down 1% from the third quarter a year ago, primarily due to continued expense control and efficiency programs. Operating profit of $338 million was up 11% compared to $305 million a year ago, which included the anti-trust settlement gain. Pharmaceutical Solutions operating profit as a percentage of revenues was 1.53% in this year's third quarter compared to 1.43% in the third quarter a year ago and 1.26% when the antitrust settlement gain is excluded from the prior year calculation.
     "Our U.S. pharmaceutical distribution business continues to execute very well on opportunities to increase profitability and control expenses," said Hammergren.
     Medical-Surgical Solutions segment revenues of $632 million were up 16% in the third quarter compared to the third quarter a year ago, reflecting strong growth across the business and the acquisition of Sterling Medical in the first quarter. Gross profit was up 22% to $174 million in the third quarter. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues was 27.5% compared to 26.3% in the third quarter a year ago. Operating expenses increased 27% in the third quarter this year due to the acquisition of Sterling and costs that reflect an operating infrastructure in transition following the sale of the acute care portion of the business in the second quarter. As a result, operating profit in the third quarter was $25 million compared to $26 million in the third quarter a year ago.
     In Provider Technologies, revenues for the third quarter were $451 million, up 12% compared to the third quarter a year ago, driven primarily by a 20% increase in services revenues. Software and software systems revenues grew just 1% in the quarter as the company experienced an increase in the deferral rate for software bookings to 83% from 70% in the third quarter a year ago. Operating expenses were up 17% in the quarter due primarily to acquisitions completed earlier in the year and continued investments in new product development and sales force expansion. Operating profit was up 5% to $40 million. Operating margin rate was 8.87% compared to 9.48% a year ago.
 
     "Our revenue growth in Provider Technologies reflects demand for clinical solutions that address critical needs for improved health outcomes and healthcare cost efficiencies," Hammergren said. "We continue to focus on accelerating implementations to deliver return on investment for our customers. Operating profit grew more slowly than revenues due to our continued investments in new products, sales force expansion and new market initiatives, all of which are designed to enhance our position and drive future growth. We are looking forward to the scheduled completion tomorrow of our Per-Se Technologies acquisition, which should further strengthen our position in several key product and service areas."
Outlook
     "Based on our year-to-date results and the continued progress across our business, we are raising our guidance," Hammergren said. "For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2007, McKesson expects to earn between $2.75 and $2.85 per fully diluted share from continuing operations, excluding adjustments to our Securities Litigation reserves and charges and certain purchase accounting adjustments associated with the completion of our acquisition of Per-Se Technologies." Through three quarters, McKesson has earnings per share of $2.05 from continuing operations, excluding adjustments to Securities Litigation reserves.
Corporate and Financial Highlights
     The third quarter of Fiscal 2007 included the following:
 
 
Risk Factors
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements", within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "should", "seeks", "approximates", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: adverse resolution of pending shareholder litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including changes in government regulations and the impact of potential future mandated benefits; competition; changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; governmental and manufacturers' efforts to regulate or control the pharmaceutical supply chain; changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical
 
manufacturers' pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices; changes in the availability or pricing of generic drugs; changes in customer mix; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's internally used or externally sold software and software systems, or the slowing or deferral of demand or extension of the sales cycle for external software products; continued access to third-party licenses for software and the patent positions of the company's proprietary software; the company's ability to meet performance requirements in its disease management programs; the adequacy of insurance to cover liability or loss claims; new or revised tax legislation; foreign currency fluctuations or disruptions to foreign operations; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
     . Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, which are located on the company's website.
A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM ET today and on replay afterwards
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) is a Fortune 16 healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes and improving the quality and safety of patient care. Over the course of its 174-year history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at .
www.mckesson.com
CONTACT: Larry Kurtz, 415-983-8418 (Investors and Financial Press) larry.kurtz@mckesson.com Kate Rohrbach 415-983-9023 (Business and Trade Media) kate.rohrbach@mckesson.com
 
Schedule I
 
 
 
Schedule II
 
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


