FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20080131164540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On January 31, 2008, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for the third quarter ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), but shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 31, 2008
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the third fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2007, were $26.5 billion compared to $23.1 billion a year ago. Third-quarter earnings per diluted share from continuing operations was 68 cents compared to 79 cents per diluted share a year ago. Third-quarter results include approximately two cents per share dilution from Oncology Therapeutics Network (OTN), which was acquired on October 29, 2007. This year's third quarter results also include 11 cents per share of charges composed of pre-tax charges of $24 million for asset impairments, severance and restructurings and $17 million for pending legal settlements, of which $13 million is not tax-deductible.
SAN FRANCISCO, January 31, 2008 
     "In our third quarter, McKesson revenues were up 15%," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "Distribution Solutions revenues increased 14%, driven primarily by solid growth and new business from existing customers and the acquisition of OTN. Technology Solutions revenues increased 35%, driven by the acquisition of Per-Se Technologies and continued expansion in software and services. Operating performance was also strong given that we faced a difficult comparison versus the third quarter a year ago and that we took a number of actions in the quarter designed to improve future financial results."
     In last year's third quarter, McKesson had significant earnings from three major generic drugs, two of which had lower profit margins in the third quarter this year and one of which is no longer on the market.
 
     "During the quarter, we expanded our position in the attractive specialty pharmaceutical market with the acquisition of OTN and we provided for several pending legal settlements. In our Technology Solutions business, the scale and scope of our new organization has enabled us to streamline our staffing and product lines, which should improve efficiencies and deliver better customer solutions in coming years."
     "We continue to have very positive market momentum in both our segments. Based on our results to date and a strong performance in the fourth quarter, we expect that McKesson should earn between $3.22 and $3.32 per diluted share for Fiscal 2008, excluding adjustments to Securities Litigation reserves." For the first three quarters, McKesson has earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.27, excluding adjustments to Securities Litigation reserves.
Segment Results
     Distribution Solutions revenues were up 14% for the third quarter. U.S. pharmaceutical direct distribution revenues grew 17% for the quarter, reflecting primarily customer growth and expanded relationships among existing customers, the impact of the OTN acquisition and one extra day of sales in this year's quarter. Warehouse sales increased 5% in the quarter. Canadian revenues increased 32% for the quarter, including a favorable currency impact of 18%, reflecting new and expanded distribution agreements and one extra day of sales in the quarter. Medical-Surgical distribution revenues were up 3% for the quarter.
 
     Distribution Solutions gross profit was $859 million compared to $790 million in the third quarter a year ago. Distribution Solutions gross profit margin in the third quarter was lower compared to the third quarter a year ago, which benefited from the earnings of three major generic drugs. The third quarter included a LIFO credit of $10 million compared to a LIFO credit of $18 million in the third quarter a year ago.
     Distribution Solutions operating profit was $312 million in the third quarter compared to $340 million in the third quarter a year ago, reflecting continued investment in retail automation and specialty distribution, including the OTN operating loss. Third quarter operating expenses this year also included charges totaling $16 million composed of a $13 million provision for a pending legal settlement and $3 million for restructuring.
     "Our Distribution Solutions revenue growth in the quarter reflects demand from the most diverse and balanced customer base in the industry," Hammergren said. "Looking ahead, we are strategically well-positioned to produce continued solid results in Distribution Solutions. The demographics of an aging population are driving increased use of pharmaceuticals across North America. There is an exceptional pipeline of higher-margin generic product opportunities that are forecast for launch over the next several years, and we have grown our base of customers that rely on McKesson for access to these important drugs at competitive prices. And our acquisition of OTN expands our participation in the rapidly-growing market for specialty pharmaceuticals."
     In Technology Solutions, revenues were up 35% for the quarter, reflecting primarily the revenue impact of the Per-Se acquisition completed in January 2007 and continued growth in software and services for hospitals, clinics, physician offices and payors. Services revenues were up 48% and software and software systems revenues were up 14%.
 
     Technology Solutions operating profit in the third quarter was $49 million compared to $63 million in the third quarter a year ago. Operating profit was reduced by charges totaling $25 million composed of $21 million to streamline staffing and product lines and $4 million for legal settlements. Operating expenses were also higher due to Per-Se operating expenses, continued investment in new product development and the impact of increased FAS 123R expense in this segment, which was $10 million in the third quarter this year compared to $3 million in the third quarter a year ago.
     "McKesson Technology Solutions has the most comprehensive set of software, services and automation systems for hospitals, physician offices, home healthcare and payors, and we are winning in the market as shown by the recent decisions by Community Health Systems, Aetna and Cigna to expand our relationships," Hammergren said. "The continued expansion of our core hospital and physician business combined with the acquisition of Per-Se Technologies and the transition of our payor business into this unit has created the world's largest healthcare information technology company, with sales that will approach $3 billion this fiscal year. Interest remains high for our clinical and imaging solutions and for our RelayHealth offering, inside and outside our customer base. Our integration of Per-Se continues to be ahead of schedule and provides McKesson with important new capabilities to meet growing customer needs for better connectivity and funds flow in the evolving healthcare environment. The $25 million in charges reflect actions we took to improve future results. These charges reduced operating profit for the quarter, but for the full year, we expect to make significant progress toward our goal of low- to mid-teens operating margin for the segment, solidly reaching double-digits."
 
Third-Quarter Corporate and Financial Highlights
 
 
 
Risk Factors
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "should", "seeks", "approximately", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The discussion of financial trends, strategy, plans or intentions may also include forward-looking statements. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties; however, the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: adverse resolution of pending securities litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including changes in government
 
regulations and the impact of potential future mandated benefits; competition; changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; governmental and manufacturers' efforts to regulate or control the pharmaceutical supply chain; changes in government regulations relating to patient confidentiality standards; changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical manufacturers' pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices; changes in the availability or pricing of branded and generic drugs; changes in customer mix; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's internally used or externally sold software and software systems, or the slowing or deferral of demand or extension of the sales cycle for external software products; continued access to third-party licenses for software and the patent positions of the company's proprietary software; the company's ability to meet performance requirements in its disease management programs; the adequacy of insurance to cover liability or loss claims; changes in circumstances that could impair our goodwill or intangible assets; new or revised tax legislation; foreign currency fluctuations or disruptions to foreign operations; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
     . Stockholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, which are located on the company's website.
A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM ET today and on replay afterwards
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation, currently ranked 18th on the FORTUNE 500, is a healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its
 
customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes, and improving the quality and safety of patient care. McKesson is the longest-operating company in healthcare today and in 2008 is marking 175 years of continuous operations. Over the course of its history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at .
www.mckesson.com
CONTACT: Larry Kurtz, 415-983-8418 (Investors and Financial Press) larry.kurtz@mckesson.com Kate Rohrbach 415-983-9023 (Business and Trade Media) kate.rohrbach@mckesson.com
 
Schedule I
 
 
 
Schedule II
 
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


