FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20080723161240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 23, 2008, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for the first quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), but shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1943, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 23, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the first quarter ended June 30, 2008 were $26.7 billion compared to $24.5 billion a year ago. First-quarter earnings per diluted share was 83 cents compared to 77 cents per diluted share a year ago.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 23, 2008 
     "McKesson is off to another solid start for Fiscal 2009, continuing our positive momentum of the prior three years," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "Our results this quarter were driven by excellent performance in the Distribution Solutions segment and the effect of our share repurchases, which positively impacted earnings per share."
     In the first quarter, McKesson revenues were up 9%, driven primarily by solid growth in pharmaceutical direct distribution and services revenues in both the United States and Canada, and the acquisition of Oncology Therapeutics Network (OTN). Earnings per diluted share was up 8% versus the prior year, driven by 13% growth in Distribution Solutions operating profit and the 7% decline in average shares outstanding.
     The company continues to execute a balanced capital deployment strategy designed to create additional shareholder value. During the first quarter, McKesson deployed $242 million for acquisitions and repurchased $130 million of common stock, leaving $1.2 billion remaining on its current share repurchase authorization.
 
     Looking forward to the September quarter, McKesson expects to release a tax reserve of $65 million.
     "I am pleased with the company's first quarter earnings, which are the result of great execution, combined with our track record of solid cash generation and our portfolio approach to capital deployment. Based on our positive momentum and the projected tax reserve release, we are raising our previous outlook and now expect that McKesson should earn between $4.00 and $4.15 per diluted share from continuing operations for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2009," Hammergren said.
Segment Results
     Distribution Solutions revenues were up 9% in the first quarter. U.S. pharmaceutical direct distribution and services revenues grew 16% for the quarter, reflecting customer growth and the OTN acquisition. Warehouse sales were down 8% in the quarter, primarily due to a decrease in volume purchases from a large customer beginning in January 2008.
     Canadian revenues increased 27% for the quarter, due to new and expanded distribution agreements, a favorable currency impact of 10%, and two additional sales days. Medical-Surgical distribution revenues were up 6% for the quarter.
     In the first quarter, Distribution Solutions gross profit of $934 million improved 14% compared to the first quarter a year ago. The increase in gross profit for the quarter was due primarily to the impact of our agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers and an improved mix of higher-margin products and services, including sales of OneStop generics, which were up 20% in the quarter. The first quarter a year ago included the benefit of two anti-trust settlements totaling $14 million.
     Operating profit of $384 million was up 13% for the quarter and operating margin rate was 1.48% compared to 1.43% a year ago.
     "The scale and efficiency of our distribution businesses, combined with our comprehensive value proposition, clearly differentiates our offering to customers.
 
Distribution Solutions delivered excellent results that drove our overall corporate success," said Hammergren.
     In Technology Solutions, revenues were up 2% for the quarter, primarily due to increased services revenues reflecting the segment's expanded customer base.
     Technology Solutions operating profit in the first quarter was $66 million, and the operating margin rate was 8.87% compared to 13.70% for the first quarter a year ago. In last year's first quarter, revenues and operating profit included the recognition of $21 million of previously deferred disease management revenue.
     "While we faced a challenging comparison this quarter versus a year ago, we remain optimistic about our full-year results. We continue to invest in the business with new product development, and we have made recent acquisitions that create further opportunities to offer our customers comprehensive solutions," said Hammergren.
First-Quarter Financial Highlights
     The quarter included the following additional major highlights:
 
 
Risk Factors
Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "will", "should", "seeks", "approximately", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The discussion of financial trends, strategy, plans or intentions may also include forward-looking statements. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties; however, the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: material adverse resolution of pending legal proceedings; changes in the U.S. healthcare industry and regulatory environment; competition; the frequency or rate of branded drug price inflation and generic drug price deflation; substantial defaults or material reduction in purchases by large customers; implementation delay, malfunction or failure of internal information systems; the adequacy of insurance to cover property loss or liability claims; the company's failure to attract and retain customers for its software products and solutions due to integration and implementation challenges, or due to an inability to keep pace with technological advances; loss of third party licenses for technology incorporated into the company's products and solutions; the company's proprietary products and services may not be adequately protected, and its products and solutions may be found to infringe on the rights of others; failure of our technology products and solutions to conform to specifications; disaster or other event causing interruption of customer access to data residing in our service centers; increased costs or product delays required to comply with existing and changing regulations applicable to our businesses and products; changes in government regulations
 
relating to patient confidentiality and to format and data content standards; the delay or extension of our sales or implementation cycles for external software products; changes in circumstances that could impair our goodwill or intangible assets; foreign currency fluctuations or disruptions to our foreign operations; new or revised tax legislation or challenges to our tax positions; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
     . Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, which are located on the company's website.
A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM ET today and on replay afterwards
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation, currently ranked 18th on the FORTUNE 500, is a healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes, and improving the quality and safety of patient care. McKesson is the longest-operating company in healthcare today, marking its 175 anniversary this year. Over the course of its history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at .
th
www.mckesson.com
Contact: Ana Schrank, 415-983-7153 (Investors and Financial Media) Ana.Schrank@McKesson.com James Larkin, 415-983-8736 (General and Business Media) James.Larkin@McKesson.com
 
Schedule I
 
 
Schedule II
 
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


