FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20081028163029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
On October 28, 2008, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for the second quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), but shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 28, 2008
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the second quarter ended September 30, 2008 were $26.6 billion compared to $24.5 billion a year ago. Second-quarter earnings per diluted share was $1.17 compared to 83 cents per diluted share a year ago. Second-quarter results include 27 cents per diluted share from a tax reserve release of $76 million and five cents per diluted share from the disposition of our 42% equity interest in Verispan, L.L.C. (Verispan). Prior year earnings were positively impacted by one cent per diluted share as a result of various settlements of our Securities Litigation.
SAN FRANCISCO, October 28, 2008 
     "We had a solid quarter, with a particularly strong performance from Distribution Solutions despite industry concerns about lower prescription trends," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "In Technology Solutions, our second quarter operating profit was up 8% year-over-year, although we did begin to see some customers delay their purchasing decisions."
     In the second quarter, McKesson revenues were up 9%, driven primarily by continued growth across all businesses in Distribution Solutions. Earnings per diluted share was up 41% versus the prior year, driven by the positive impact of the tax reserve release, solid results in Distribution Solutions, which included the gain on the sale of Verispan, and the benefit from the impact of share repurchases made in Fiscal 2008 and the first half of Fiscal 2009.
     The company continues to execute a balanced capital deployment strategy designed to create additional shareholder value. During the first half of the fiscal year, McKesson deployed $320 million for acquisitions and repurchased $334 million of common stock, leaving $980 million on the current share repurchase authorization.
 
     "Our results demonstrate that McKesson is well-positioned to weather the current economic turmoil as the majority of products and services we provide are less sensitive to short-term fluctuations in demand," Hammergren said. "This quarter's results included the divestiture of our equity interest in Verispan, which we had concluded was non-core to our operating success. We have managed our balance sheet prudently, with an appropriately conservative investment policy for our cash, low levels of corporate debt and committed sources of short-term capital to supplement our cash flow. Based on our results to date, we continue to expect that McKesson should earn between $4.00 and $4.15 per diluted share from continuing operations for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2009," Hammergren said.
Segment Results
     Distribution Solutions revenues were up 9% in the second quarter.  U.S. pharmaceutical direct distribution and services revenues grew 16% for the quarter, reflecting market growth rates, the acquisitions of Oncology Therapeutics Network (OTN) and McQueary Brothers, and expanded business with existing customers.  Warehouse sales were down 7% in the quarter, primarily due to a decrease in purchases from a large customer beginning in January 2008 and the additional impact of decreased purchases from several other customers.  U.S. pharmaceutical revenues benefited from one additional day of sales in the second quarter of Fiscal 2009.
     Canadian revenues increased 15% for the quarter due to new and expanded distribution agreements, market growth rates, and one additional day of sales.  Medical-Surgical distribution revenues were up 9% for the quarter primarily due to market growth rates and an early sales season for the flu vaccine.
     In the second quarter, Distribution Solutions gross profit of $951 million improved 12% compared to the second quarter a year ago. The increase in gross profit was due primarily to an improved mix of higher-margin products, including sales of McKesson OneStop Generics, which were up 49% in the quarter, partially offset by the timing of our compensation from branded pharmaceutical manufacturers.
     Operating profit of $406 million was up 11% for the quarter and the operating margin rate was 1.57% compared to 1.54% a year ago.
 
     "I am pleased with the revenue growth in Distribution Solutions and the overall performance of our business," Hammergren said. "We expect operating margin improvement as a result of the robust pipeline of higher-margin generic conversions that are forecast to launch over the next several years and our ability to grow our base of customers that rely on McKesson for access to these competitively priced drugs. With our mix of businesses, we are strategically well-positioned to produce solid results in Distribution Solutions, even in this tough economic environment," said Hammergren.
     In Technology Solutions, revenues were up 7% for the quarter, primarily due to higher services revenues reflecting the segment's expanded customer base and higher disease management and outsourcing revenues. Technology Solutions operating profit in the second quarter was $71 million and the operating margin rate was 9.32% compared to 9.27% for the second quarter a year ago.
     "In the second quarter, we saw some hospital customers delay their purchasing decisions, particularly in the last two weeks of the quarter, which has begun to impact the results of Technology Solutions," Hammergren said. "Given the uncertainty in the current economic climate, we are following a prudent course of action and more aggressively managing costs in the business. We are also focusing our team on selling products and services that are designed to have a rapid and demonstrable financial impact on our customers," Hammergren concluded.
Second-Quarter Highlights
 
 
Risk Factors
Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "will", "should", "seeks", "approximately", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The discussion of financial trends, strategy, plans or intentions may also include forward-looking statements. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties; however, the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: material adverse resolution of pending legal proceedings; changes in the U.S. healthcare industry and regulatory environment; competition; the frequency or rate of branded drug price inflation and generic drug price deflation; substantial defaults or material reduction in purchases by large customers; implementation delay, malfunction or failure of internal information systems; the adequacy of insurance to cover property loss or liability claims; the company's failure to attract and retain customers for its software products and solutions due to integration and implementation challenges, or due to an inability to
 
keep pace with technological advances; loss of third party licenses for technology incorporated into the company's products and solutions; the company's proprietary products and services may not be adequately protected, and its products and solutions may be found to infringe on the rights of others; failure of our technology products and solutions to conform to specifications; disaster or other event causing interruption of customer access to data residing in our service centers; increased costs or product delays required to comply with existing and changing regulations applicable to our businesses and products; changes in government regulations relating to patient confidentiality and to format and data content standards; the delay or extension of our sales or implementation cycles for external software products; changes in circumstances that could impair our goodwill or intangible assets; foreign currency fluctuations or disruptions to our foreign operations; new or revised tax legislation or challenges to our tax positions; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
     . Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, which are located on the company's website.
A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM ET today and on replay afterwards
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation, currently ranked 18th on the FORTUNE 500, is a healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes, and improving the quality and safety of patient care. McKesson is the longest-operating company in healthcare today, marking its 175 anniversary this year. Over the course of its history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for
th
 
hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at .
www.mckesson.com
Contact:
Ana Schrank, 415-983-7153 (Investors and Financial Media)
Ana.Schrank@McKesson.com
James Larkin, 415-983-8736 (General and Business Media)
James.Larkin@McKesson.com
 
Exhibit 99.1
Schedule I
 
 
Schedule II
 
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


