FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20080505165253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
On May 5, 2008, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), but shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2008 were $26.2 billion compared to $24.2 billion a year ago. Fourth-quarter earnings per diluted share was $1.05 compared to 85 cents per diluted share a year ago. Fourth-quarter earnings per diluted share from continuing operations was $1.04 compared to 85 cents a year ago.
SAN FRANCISCO, May 5, 2008 
     For the fiscal year, McKesson had revenues of $101.7 billion versus $93.0 billion a year ago, and earnings per diluted share of $3.32 compared to $2.99 a year ago. Earnings per diluted share from continuing operations for the full year was $3.31 compared to $2.89 a year ago excluding adjustments to Securities Litigation reserves.
     "The fourth-quarter and full-year financial results demonstrate continued operating excellence and the benefit of acquisitions and share repurchases to create additional shareholder value," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "Driven by strong revenue growth and solid operating margins in both Distribution Solutions and Technology Solutions, McKesson's annual revenues exceeded $100 billion for the first time. Our enhanced value proposition for customers provides great market momentum into our next fiscal year."
 
     In the fourth quarter, McKesson revenues were up 9%, with strong performance in both segments. Distribution Solutions revenues were up 8%, driven primarily by solid growth in pharmaceutical direct distribution and services revenues in both the U.S. and Canada, and the acquisition of Oncology Therapeutics Network (OTN). Technology Solutions revenues grew 19%, driven by the Per-Se Technologies, Inc. (Per-Se) acquisition and continued growth in software and services for hospitals, clinics, physician offices, and payors.
     "Over the past three years, our strong operating results have been furthered by the acquisitions of D&K Healthcare, OTN, and Per-Se," said Hammergren. "D&K expanded the opportunity for our generics business, OTN enhanced our position in the rapidly growing specialty pharmaceutical sector, and Per-Se represents a unique opportunity to change the game in healthcare information technology."
     For the year, McKesson generated cash from operations of $1.8 billion before considering the impact of releasing restricted cash of $962 million related to the Consolidated Securities Litigation Action. The company continues to execute a balanced capital deployment strategy to create additional shareholder value. During Fiscal 2008, McKesson completed $610 million of acquisitions, repurchased $1.7 billion of its common stock, including $772 million in the fourth quarter, paid $70 million in dividends, and made $356 million in internal investments and capitalized software. The company ended the year with a cash balance of $1.4 billion and a gross debt-to-capital ratio of 23%.
     "Our strong balance sheet and solid cash flow give us the flexibility to use our portfolio approach to capital deployment for synergistic acquisitions, share repurchases, and dividends," Hammergren commented. "Based on the positive outlook for our business, the Board of Directors authorized an additional share repurchase of $1 billion, bringing our total authorization to $1.3 billion, and approved a policy doubling the quarterly dividend from six cents to twelve cents per share."
 
     "Our financial strength and our commitment to operating excellence ensure that we will continue McKesson's 175-year old tradition of creating value for our customers, employees and shareholders by improving the cost and quality of healthcare."
Segment Results
     Distribution Solutions revenues were up 8% for the fourth quarter and 9% for the year. U.S. pharmaceutical direct distribution and services revenues grew 14% for the quarter and 12% for the year, primarily reflecting customer growth and the OTN acquisition. Warehouse revenues were down 10% for the quarter, primarily due to a decrease in purchases from a customer, and were flat for the year.
     Canadian revenues increased 38% for the quarter, primarily due to new and expanded distribution agreements and a favorable currency impact of 20%. For the full year, Canadian revenues grew 21% and included a favorable currency impact of 12%. Medical-Surgical distribution and services revenues were up 9% in the fourth quarter and 6% for the full year.
     In the fourth quarter, Distribution Solutions gross profit of $1.1 billion was up 15% compared to the fourth quarter a year ago. Full-year gross profit of $3.6 billion was up 10% from a year ago. The increases in gross profit for the quarter and year resulted from stronger branded price inflation and an increased mix of higher-margin products and services.
     Gross profit in the fourth quarter included a $5 million pre-tax LIFO credit compared to $26 million in the fourth quarter a year ago. For the full year, the pre-tax LIFO credit was $14 million compared to $64 million a year ago. The company fully utilized its pharmaceutical products LIFO reserve in Fiscal 2008.
     Operating profit was up 12% for the quarter and 6% for the year. Operating margin rate for the fourth quarter was 1.83% compared to 1.76% a year ago, and was 1.50% for the full year compared to 1.54% a year ago.
     "We continue to expand our great relationships with customers to provide them with higher-value products and services," said Hammergren. "When combined with our disciplined approach to contract renewals, it produced outstanding financial performance."
 
     In Technology Solutions, revenues were up 19% for the quarter and 33% for the full year, reflecting the incremental impact of revenues from Per-Se, which was acquired January 26, 2007, increased implementations, and continued strong demand for clinical software and imaging solutions. Services revenues grew 25% in the fourth quarter and 46% for the full year, driven by growth in the business and the Per-Se acquisition. Software and software systems revenues increased 9% for the quarter and 10% for the full year.
     Operating expenses were up 4% for the quarter. For the year, operating expenses were up 26% due to the impact of acquisitions, continued investments in new product development, December quarter charges to streamline staffing and product lines, and equity-based compensation expense.
     Technology Solutions operating profit in the fourth quarter was $104 million, up 89% compared to the fourth quarter a year ago, and for the full year was $319 million, up 55%. Traditionally, operating profit in this segment is strongest in the fourth quarter, and this year's growth was further aided by the incremental impact of the Per-Se acquisition and improved performance in our payor business. Operating margin rate was 12.90% for the quarter and 10.69% for the year.
     "Technology Solutions performance continues to benefit from having the industry's broadest product and service offering and the largest customer base," said Hammergren. "We see strong demand for our software and service solutions from our large installed base of hospital customers, and we have unique offerings for the emerging physician office and consumer-directed healthcare sectors of the market. With RelayHealth we have an unmatched portfolio of clinical, financial and administrative connectivity and communications solutions for hospitals, physicians, payors and retail pharmacies. Our Payor business is well-positioned with proven software and disease management solutions. Our international business provides a solid base of services revenues following the full implementation of our National Health Service contract."
 
Fiscal Year 2009 Outlook
     "Based on our expectations for continued strong business performance, the demonstrated value of our product and service offerings, and our strategic investments, McKesson enters Fiscal 2009 well-positioned in both Distribution Solutions and Technology Solutions," Hammergren said. "A strong balance sheet and solid operating cash flow provide resources to create additional shareholder value. For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2009, McKesson expects to earn between $3.75 and $3.90 per fully diluted share, which represents EPS growth of 13% to 18% from $3.31."
Key Assumptions for Fiscal Year 2009 Outlook
     The Fiscal 2009 outlook is based on the key assumptions provided below and is also subject to the Risk Factors provided below in this press release.
 
Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Financial Highlights
 
 
 
Risk Factors
Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "should", "seeks", "approximately", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The discussion of financial trends, strategy, plans or intentions may also include forward-looking statements. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties; however, the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: material adverse resolution of pending legal proceedings; changes in the U.S. healthcare industry and regulatory environment; competition; the frequency or rate of branded drug price inflation and generic drug price deflation; substantial defaults or material reduction in purchases by large customers; implementation delay, malfunction or failure of internal information systems; the adequacy of insurance to cover property loss or liability claims; the company's failure to attract and retain customers for its software products and solutions due to integration and implementation challenges, or due to an inability to keep pace with technological advances; loss of third party licenses for technology incorporated into the company's products and solutions; the company's proprietary products and services may not be adequately protected, and its products and solutions may be found to infringe on the rights of others; failure of our technology products and solutions to conform to specifications; disaster or other event causing interruption of customer access to data residing in our service centers; increased costs or product delays required to comply with existing and changing regulations applicable to our businesses and products; changes in government regulations relating to patient confidentiality and to format and data content standards; the delay or extension
 
of our sales or implementation cycles for external software products; changes in circumstances that could impair our goodwill or intangible assets; foreign currency fluctuations or disruptions to our foreign operations; new or revised tax legislation or challenges to our tax positions; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
     . Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, which are located on the company's website.
A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM ET today and on replay afterwards
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation, currently ranked 18th on the FORTUNE 500, is a healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes, and improving the quality and safety of patient care. McKesson is the longest-operating company in healthcare today and in 2008 is marking 175 years of continuous operations. Over the course of its history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at .
www.mckesson.com
Contact: Ana Schrank, 415-983-7153 (Investors and Financial Media) Ana.Schrank@McKesson.com James Larkin, 415-983-8736 (General and Business Media) James.Larkin@McKesson.com
 
Schedule I
 
 
 
Schedule II
 
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


