FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20100126162152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 26, 2010, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for the third quarter ended December 31, 2009. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), but shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 26, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the third quarter ended December 31, 2009 were $28.3 billion compared to $27.1 billion a year ago. Third quarter earnings per diluted share was $1.19 compared to a loss of seven cents per diluted share a year ago. Last year's results included the impact of a pre-tax charge of $493 million, or $1.12 per diluted share, for the Average Wholesale Price (AWP) litigation.
SAN FRANCISCO, January 26, 2010 
     "McKesson demonstrated solid execution in the third quarter. Our results were driven by our performance in Distribution Solutions, including a strong contribution from the incremental demand we are experiencing across our businesses from the impact of the flu season," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer.
     "Based on our year-to-date progress, we are raising our previous outlook and now expect that McKesson should earn between $4.55 and $4.70 per diluted share for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2010, excluding the favorable impact of the litigation credit in our second quarter," Hammergren said.
     In the third quarter, Distribution Solutions revenues were up 4%. U.S. pharmaceutical distribution revenues were up 2% for the quarter, primarily reflecting market growth, which was partially offset by the loss of certain customers in late Fiscal 2009. In addition, we continued to see a shift of revenues to direct store delivery from sales to customers' warehouses.
 
     Canadian revenues, on a constant currency basis, grew 8% for the quarter primarily due to market growth. Including a favorable currency impact of 15%, Canadian revenues grew 23% for the quarter. Medical-Surgical distribution revenues were up 11% for the quarter, reflecting an increase in demand related to the flu season and aided by acquisitions made in late Fiscal 2009.
     Distribution Solutions gross profit was $1,104 million compared to $988 million in the third quarter a year ago. Distribution Solutions gross profit margin in the third quarter was higher compared to the third quarter a year ago, primarily due to the impact of the H1N1 flu virus, which helped drive an improved mix of higher margin revenues stemming from increased flu-related demand across our distribution businesses. Gross profit margin also benefited from higher profit from the sale of generic drugs. These benefits were partially offset by lower sell margin in our U.S. pharmaceutical business and the timing of compensation from branded pharmaceutical manufacturers.
     Distribution Solutions operating profit of $558 million was up 27% when compared to operating profit before the AWP litigation charge of $493 million in the same period a year ago. In the third quarter, operating margin of 2.03% benefited from the higher gross profit margin and a $17 million pre-tax gain from the sale of our 50% equity interest in McKesson Logistics Solutions L.L.C., a Canadian logistics company.
     "I am extremely pleased with the team's ability to execute on opportunities to increase our business and improve profitability," Hammergren said. "In particular, I am proud of the tremendous effort across McKesson to safely and efficiently deliver over 100 million doses of H1N1 flu vaccine and ancillary medical supplies in partnership with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Our success with this program is just one example of the operational excellence that we deliver to all of our customers."
     In Technology Solutions, revenues were up 3% for the quarter. Services revenues grew 6% reflecting the steady nature of our offering. Software revenues were down 2% and hardware revenues were down 32%.
 
     Technology Solutions operating profit in the third quarter was $81 million, down 11% from $91 million a year ago. The operating margin was 10.51% compared to 12.12% in the same period a year ago, primarily reflecting a decrease in gross profit margin due to a higher software deferral rate and additional amortization related to McKesson's Horizon Enterprise Revenue Management solution, which became generally available in the second quarter of this fiscal year.
TM
     "We have the largest and most diverse technology offering in the industry with solutions that help hospitals, payors, pharmacies and physicians deliver high quality care in a cost efficient manner," Hammergren said. "We are well-positioned to benefit from the increased focus on clinical solutions that has been created by the stimulus funding provided by the federal government, and we can also provide the connectivity that moves clinical and financial information through the entire healthcare network."
Risk Factors
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "will", "should", "seeks", "approximately", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The discussion of financial trends, strategy, plans or intentions may also include forward-looking statements. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties; however, the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: material adverse resolution of pending legal proceedings; changes in
 
the U.S. healthcare industry and regulatory environment; competition; the frequency or rate of branded drug price inflation and generic drug price deflation; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by, or loss of, a large customer; implementation delay, malfunction or failure of internal information systems; the adequacy of insurance to cover property loss or liability claims; the company's failure to attract and retain customers for its software products and solutions due to integration and implementation challenges, or due to an inability to keep pace with technological advances; loss of third party licenses for technology incorporated into the company's products and solutions; the company's proprietary products and services may not be adequately protected, and its products and solutions may be found to infringe on the rights of others; failure of our technology products and solutions to conform to specifications; disaster or other event causing interruption of customer access to data residing in our service centers; increased costs or product delays required to comply with existing and changing regulations applicable to our businesses and products; changes in government regulations relating to sensitive personal information and to format and data content standards; the delay or extension of our sales or implementation cycles for external software products; changes in circumstances that could impair our goodwill or intangible assets; foreign currency fluctuations or disruptions to our foreign operations; new or revised tax legislation or challenges to our tax positions; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; continued volatility and disruption to the global capital and credit markets; failure to adequately prepare for and accurately assess the scope, duration or financial impact of public health issues on our operations, particularly the company's current H1N1 flu vaccine distribution effort with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, whether occurring in the United States or abroad; and changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are first made. Except to the extent required by law, the company undertakes no obligation to publicly release
 
the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
     . Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, which are located on the company's website.
A web cast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM ET today and on replay afterwards
 
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation, currently ranked 15th on the FORTUNE 500, is a healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes, and improving the quality and safety of patient care. McKesson has been in continuous operation for more than 175 years, making it the longest-operating company in healthcare today. Over the course of its history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit .
www.mckesson.com
Contact: Ana Schrank, 415-983-7153 (Investors and Financial Media) Ana.Schrank@McKesson.com James Larkin, 415-983-8736 (General and Business Media) James.Larkin@McKesson.com
 
Schedule I
 
 
Schedule II
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


