FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20100803170047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On July 28, 2010, at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2010 Annual Meeting") of McKesson Corporation (the "Company"), stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's 2005 Stock Plan (the "Stock Plan") and 2005 Management Incentive Plan (the "MIP") for the purpose of adding seven new performance measures. The amendment to add seven new performance measures to the Company's Stock Plan and MIP had been previously approved by the Board of Directors at its April 21, 2010 meeting, subject to stockholder approval. The added performance measures approved by the Company's stockholders at the 2010 Annual Meeting are as follows: average invested capital; credit rating; gross margin; improvement in workforce diversity; operating expenses; operating expenses as a percentage of revenue; and succession plan development and implementation. A summary of the material terms of the Company's Stock Plan and MIP is set forth in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 21, 2010 (the "Definitive Proxy Statement"), which is incorporated herein by reference.
     The following six items were voted upon at the Company's 2010 Annual Meeting, and the stockholder votes on each such matter as certified by the Inspector of Election, are briefly described below.
     . The Board of Directors' nominees for directors as listed in the Definitive Proxy Statement were each elected to serve a one-year term. The votes were as follows: 
Item 1
     . The proposal to reapprove the performance measures available for performance-based awards under the Company's amended and restated Stock Plan in order to preserve the deductibility of such awards under the Federal tax rules was approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 2
     . The proposal to reapprove the performance measures available for performance-based awards under the Company's amended and restated MIP in order to preserve the deductibility of such awards under the Federal tax rules was approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 3
     . The appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending March 31, 2011 was ratified, having received the following votes: 
Item 4
 
     As shown above, there were no broker non-votes with respect to items two, three and four.
     . The stockholder-submitted proposal on significant executive stock retention for two years beyond retirement was not approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 5
     . The stockholder-submitted proposal on preparing a pay differential report was not approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 6
     Each item considered at the 2010 Annual Meeting is described in further detail in the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement. Other than the six items addressed above and described in the Definitive Proxy Statement, no other item was submitted at the 2010 Annual Meeting for stockholder action.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:   August 3, 2010


