FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20110505160641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 5, 2011, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") posted to its website historical financial information on the basis of Adjusted Earnings (Non-GAAP), which was done in preparation for a reporting change beginning with its first-quarter results for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012. From the main-page of the Company's website, the posted material can be located under the "Investors" tab. A copy of the material posted to Company's website is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), but shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 5, 2011
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
McKesson Corporation provides historical information on the basis of Adjusted Earnings (Non-GAAP) in preparation for fiscal 2012 reporting change
May 5, 2011
During its earnings conference call held on May 3, 2011, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced that beginning with its first-quarter results for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012, the Company will begin separately reporting financial results on the basis of Adjusted Earnings in addition to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). "Adjusted Earnings" is a non-GAAP measure defined as GAAP earnings from continuing operations, excluding acquisition-related expenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and litigation reserve adjustments. Other than the addition of a new non-GAAP reporting measure, there will be no change to the Company's balance sheet or cash flow presentation.
The Company believes the presentation of Adjusted Earnings will provide useful information to investors in understanding its core operating performance, as well as assisting with the comparison of past financial performance to future financial results. The Company also believes that the presentations of Adjusted Earnings will assist investors' ability to compare the Company's financial results to those of other companies. Finally, the Company uses Adjusted Earnings internally when assessing the performance of the organization and its operating segments. However, any such non-GAAP financial results and measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, nor superior to, financial results and measures as determined or calculated in accordance with GAAP. Each and every GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation of the Company's financial results should be carefully evaluated.
In addition to excluding financial results from discontinued operations, Adjusted Earnings will exclude the effects of the following items from the Company's GAAP financial results, including the related income tax effects:
Income taxes on Adjusted Earnings are calculated in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 740, "Income Taxes," which is the same accounting principles utilized by the Company when presenting its GAAP financial results.
To facilitate the transition to the new quarterly presentation of financial results, the Company is providing investors the following historical views of its Adjusted Earnings:
 
 
Exhibit I
 
 
Exhibit II
 
Exhibit III
 
 
Exhibit IV


