FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20110802170425.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     On March 21, 2011, the Board of Directors of McKesson Corporation (the "Company") approved amendments to the Company's Amended and Restated By-Laws, subject to approval by the Company's stockholders of certain amendments to the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which are referenced under Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K. The newly Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company (the "New Amended and Restated By-Laws") became effective on July 27, 2011 upon the effectiveness of the newly Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "New Amended and Restated Charter").
     The New Amended and Restated By-Laws (i) reduce the vote required to adopt, alter or repeal the By-Laws from three-fourths to a majority of the shares of the Company outstanding and entitled to vote, (ii) make technical clarifications to the majority voting standard that applies in the absence of a different standard under law, the Certificate of Incorporation or the By-Laws, and (iii) remove a transitional provision related to the classified board structure eliminated in 2007. This description of the New Amended and Restated By-Laws does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the New Amended and Restated By-Laws, attached as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 5.03.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
     (a)-(b) The following ten items were voted on at the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders on July 27, 2011 (the "2011 Annual Meeting"), and the stockholder votes on each such matter, as certified by the Inspector of Election, are set forth below. Each of the items below is described in further detail in the Company's definitive proxy statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2011 (the "Definitive Proxy Statement'). Other than the ten items addressed below and described in the Definitive Proxy Statement, no other item was submitted at the 2011 Annual Meeting for stockholder action.
     . The Board of Directors' nominees for directors as listed in the Definitive Proxy Statement were each elected to serve a one-year term. The votes were as follows: 
Item 1
     . The appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012 was ratified, having received the following votes: 
Item 2
Table of Contents
     . The proposal to approve, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's named executive officers was approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 3
     . The proposal for stockholders to vote, on an advisory basis, on the frequency of the advisory vote on executive compensation received the following votes: 
Item 4
     . The amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation to reduce the vote required to amend the Certificate of Incorporation in any manner that will adversely affect holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock was approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 5
     . The proposal to amend the Certificate of Incorporation to reduce the vote required to adopt, alter or repeal any By-Law was approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 6
     . The proposal to amend the Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the supermajority voting requirements, and associated "fair price" provision, applicable to certain business combinations was approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 7
     . The proposal to amend the Certificate of Incorporation to remove a transitional provision related to the classified board structure eliminated in 2007 was approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 8
Table of Contents
     . The proposal to amend the Certificate of Incorporation to conform the "Interested Transactions" provisions and the stockholder action provision to applicable law was approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 9
     . The stockholder-submitted proposal on significant executive stock retention for two years beyond retirement was not approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 10
 Under the Company's majority voting standard, the election of a nominee required that the nominee receive a majority of the votes cast (that is, the number of votes cast "for" each nominee had to exceed the number of votes cast "against" such nominee). Therefore, abstentions and broker non-votes were required to be disregarded and had no effect on the vote results.
 Approval of this proposal required the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present, in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote on the proposal at the meeting. Therefore, abstentions, which represented shares present and entitled to vote, had the same effect as a vote against the proposal. Broker non-votes, if any, were required to be disregarded and had no effect on the vote results.
 The frequency that received the highest number of votes cast constitutes the advisory recommendation of the stockholders. Abstentions and broker non-votes were required to be disregarded and had no effect on the vote results.
 Approval of this proposal required the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares outstanding as of the record date. Abstentions had the same effect as a vote against the proposal. Broker non-votes, if any, were required to be disregarded and had no effect on the vote results.
     (d) Based on the results of the stockholder votes on proxy Item 4 above, and as recommended by the Company's Board of Directors, the Company has determined that an advisory vote on executive compensation will be submitted to stockholders on an annual basis until the next required advisory vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on executive compensation.
Table of Contents
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On March 21, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company approved certain amendments to the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, subject to approval by the Company's stockholders. On July 27, 2011, the Company's stockholders approved these amendments. The New Amended and Restated Charter became effective July 27, 2011 upon the filing thereof with the Delaware Secretary of State. The amended provisions of the New Amended and Restated Charter are briefly described in Item 5.07 above (proxy Items 5 through 9). These amended provisions are more fully described in the Definitive Proxy Statement. These descriptions of the New Amended and Restated Charter do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the New Amended and Restated Charter, attached as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 3.1
The name of the Corporation is McKesson Corporation.
The address of the registered office of the Corporation within the State of Delaware is 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington 19808, County of New Castle. The name of the registered agent of the Corporation at such address is The Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Inc.
The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
The total number of shares of stock of all classes which the Corporation has authority to issue is 900,000,000 shares, divided into 100,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (herein called the Series Preferred Stock') and 800,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (herein called Common Stock'). The aggregate par value of all shares is $9,000,000.
The Board of Directors of the Corporation is expressly authorized, as shall be stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions it adopts, subject to limitations prescribed by law and the provisions of this Article IV, to provide for the issuance of the shares of Series Preferred
 
Stock in one or more class or series, in addition to the shares thereof specifically provided for in this Article IV, and by filing a certificate pursuant to the applicable law of the State of Delaware, to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix for each such class or series such voting powers, full or limited, or no voting powers, and such distinctive designations, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, including without limitation, the authority to provide that any such class or series may be (i) subject to redemption at such time or times and at such price or prices; (ii) entitled to receive dividends (which may be cumulative or non-cumulative) at such rates, on such conditions, and at such times, and payable in preference to, or in relation to, the dividends payable on any other class or classes or any other series; (iii) entitled to such rights upon the dissolution of, or upon any distribution of the assets of, the Corporation; (iv) convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or classes of stock, or of any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock, of the Corporation at such price or prices or at such rates of exchange and with such adjustments; or (v) subject to the terms and amounts of any sinking fund provided for the purchase or redemption of the shares of such series; all as may be stated in such resolution or resolutions.
The number of authorized shares of Series Preferred Stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the Common Stock, without a vote of the holders of the Series Preferred Stock, as the case may be, or of any series thereof, unless a vote of any such holders is required pursuant to the provisions of this Article IV or the certificate or certificates establishing any additional series of such stock.
A description of each class of the Corporation's stock, with the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other rights, if any, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, is as follows:
          
I. SERIES PREFERRED STOCK
A. General Provisions Relating to All Series
1. The Board of Directors shall have authority to classify and reclassify any unissued shares of the Series Preferred Stock from time to time by setting or changing in any one or more respects the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other rights, if any, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series Preferred Stock. Subject to the foregoing, the power of the Board of Directors to classify and reclassify any of the shares of Series Preferred Stock shall include, without limitation, subject to the provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation, authority to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of such stock into one or more series of Series Preferred Stock, and to divide and classify shares of any series into one or more series of Series Preferred Stock by determining, fixing or altering one or more of the following:
(a) The distinctive designation of such series and the number of shares to constitute such series; provided that, unless otherwise prohibited by the terms of such or any other series, the number of shares of any series may be decreased by the Board of Directors in connection with any classification or reclassification of unissued shares and the number of shares of such series may be increased by the Board of Directors in connection with any such classification or reclassification, and any shares of any series which have been redeemed, purchased, otherwise acquired or converted into shares of Common Stock or any other series shall remain part of the authorized Series Preferred Stock and be subject to classification and reclassification as provided in this Section.
 
(b) Whether or not and, if so, the rates, amounts and times at which, and the conditions under which, dividends shall be payable on shares of such series, whether any such dividends shall rank senior or junior to or on a parity with the dividends payable on any other series of Series Preferred Stock, and the status of any such dividends as cumulative, cumulative to a limited extent or non-cumulative and as participating or non-participating.
(c) Whether or not shares of such series shall have voting rights, in addition to any voting rights provided by law and, if so, the terms of such voting rights.
(d) Whether or not shares of such series shall have conversion or exchange privileges and, if so, the terms and conditions thereof, including provision for adjustment of the conversion or exchange rate in such events or at such times as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(e) Whether or not shares of such series shall be subject to redemption and, if so, the terms and conditions of such redemption, including the date or dates upon or after which they shall be redeemable and the amount per share payable in case of redemption, which amount may vary under different conditions and at different redemption dates; and whether or not there shall be any sinking fund or purchase account in respect thereof, and if so, the terms thereof.
(f) The rights of the holders of shares of such series upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of, or upon any distribution of the assets of, the Corporation, which rights may vary depending upon whether such liquidation, dissolution or winding up is voluntary or involuntary and, if voluntary, may vary at different dates, and whether such rights shall rank senior or junior to or on a parity with such rights of any other series of Series Preferred Stock.
(g) Whether or not there shall be any limitations applicable, while shares of such series are outstanding, upon the payment of dividends or making of distributions on, or the acquisition of, or the use of moneys for purchase or redemption of, any stock of the Corporation, or upon any other action of the Corporation, including action under this Section, and, if so, the terms and conditions thereof.
(h) Any other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other rights, if any, and any other qualifications, limitations and restrictions, on the shares of such series, not inconsistent with law and this Certificate of Incorporation.
2. For the purposes hereof and of any certificate providing for the classification or reclassification of any shares of Series Preferred Stock or of any other charter document of the Corporation (unless otherwise provided in any such certificate or document), any class or series of stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:
(a) Prior to a particular class or series of stock if the holders of such class or classes or series shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference to or with priority over the holders of such particular class or series of stock;
(b) On a parity with a particular class or series of stock, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, voting rights or redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof, be different from those of such particular class or series of stock, if the rights of holders of such class or classes or series to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable in event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, shall be neither (i) in preference to, or with priority over, nor (ii) subject or subordinate to, the rights of holders of such particular class or series of stock in respect of the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, as
 
the case may be; and
(c) Junior to a particular class or series of stock if the rights of the holders of such class or classes or series shall be subject or subordinate to the rights of the holders of such particular class or series of stock in respect of the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be.
B. Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
1. The shares of this series shall be designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" and the number of shares constituting such series shall initially be 10,000,000, par value $0.01 per share, such number of shares to be subject to increase or decrease by action of the Board of Directors as evidenced by a certificate or certificates evidencing such change.
Designation and Amount.
2.
Dividends and Distributions.
(a) The holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first business day of January, April, July and October in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (i) $10.00 or (ii) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 100 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 100 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after November 1, 1994 (the "Rights Declaration Date') (A) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (B) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (C) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(b) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (a) above immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $10.00 per share on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
(c) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock from the Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
 
Stock, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Series A Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be no more than 30 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
3. The holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights.
(a) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 100 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(b) Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
 
 
(d) Except as set forth herein or as otherwise required by applicable law, holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
4.
Certain Restrictions.
(a) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not
(i) declare or pay dividends on, make any other distributions on, or redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock;
(ii) declare or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
(iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such parity stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock;
(iv) purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
(b) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (a) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
 
5. Any shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Series Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Series Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein.
Reacquired Shares.
6.
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up.
(a) Upon any liquidation (voluntary or otherwise), dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall have received $100 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment (the "Series A Liquidation Preference"). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference, no additional distributions shall be made to the holders of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Common Stock shall have received an amount per share (the "Common Adjustment") equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Series A Liquidation Preference by (ii) 100 (as appropriately adjusted as set forth in subparagraph C below to reflect such events as stock splits, stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to the Common Stock) (such number in clause (ii), the "Adjustment Number"). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the Common Adjustment in respect of all outstanding shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and Common Stock, respectively, holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and holders of shares of Common Stock shall receive their ratable and proportionate share of the remaining assets to be distributed in the ratio of the Adjustment Number to 1 with respect to such Preferred Stock and Common Stock, on a per share basis, respectively.
(b) In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the liquidation preferences of all other series of preferred stock, if any, which rank on a parity with the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of such parity shares in proportion to their respective liquidation preferences. In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Common Adjustment, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of Common Stock.
(c) In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the Adjustment Number in effect immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such Adjustment Number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
7. In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case the shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed in an amount per share (subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth) equal to 100 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other
Consolidation, Merger, etc.
 
property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (a) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (b) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (c) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
8. The shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
No Redemption.
9. The Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock shall rank junior to all other series of the Corporation's Series Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, unless the terms of any such series shall provide otherwise.
Ranking.
10. This Certificate of Incorporation shall not be further amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class.
Amendment.
11. Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock may be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
Fractional Shares.
          
II. COMMON STOCK
may be paid upon the Common Stock as and when declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends.
A. Dividends. Subject to all of the rights of the Series Preferred Stock, dividends
In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, and after the holders of the Series Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full amounts to which they respectively shall be entitled, or an amount sufficient to pay the aggregate amount to which such holders shall be entitled shall have been deposited in trust with a bank or trust company having its principal office in the Borough of Manhattan, City, County and State of New York, having a capital, undivided profits and surplus aggregating at least $5,000,000, for the benefit of the holders of the Series Preferred Stock, the remaining net assets of the Corporation shall be distributed pro rata to the holders of the Common Stock.
B. Liquidation Rights.
Except as otherwise expressly provided with respect to the Series Preferred Stock and except as otherwise may be required by law, the Common Stock shall have the exclusive right to vote for the election of directors and for all other purposes and each holder of Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held.
C. Voting Rights.
 
A. Board of Directors of the Corporation.
1. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors. The exact number of directors shall be fixed from time to time by, or in the manner provided in, the By-Laws of the Corporation and may be increased or decreased as therein provided. Directors of the Corporation need not be elected by ballot unless required by the By-Laws.
General Provisions.
2. Each nominee elected at an annual meeting of stockholders to serve as director shall hold office for a term commencing on the date of the annual meeting, or such later date as shall be determined by the Board of Directors, and ending on the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor is elected and qualified, or until such director's earlier resignation or removal. A director may be removed from office, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors and, subject to such removal, death, resignation, retirement or disqualification, shall hold office until such director's term expires and until such director's successor shall be elected and qualified. In no case shall a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Term.
3. To the extent that any holders of any class or series of stock other than Common Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the separate right, voting as a class or series, to elect directors, the directors elected by such class or series shall be deemed to constitute an additional class of directors and shall have a term of office for one year or such other period as may be designated by the provisions of such class or series providing such separate voting right to the holders of such class or series of stock, and any such class of directors shall be in addition to the classes designated above.
Directors Appointed by a Specific Class of Stockholders.
The following provisions are hereby adopted for the purpose of defining, limiting and regulating the powers of the Corporation and of its directors and stockholders:
A. General Provisions.
1. Subject to the provisions of applicable law, the Corporation reserves the right from time to time to make any amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation, now or hereafter authorized by law, including any amendment which alters the contract rights as expressly set forth therein of any outstanding stock.
Amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation.
2. The Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, alter or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation in whole or in part at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors, by vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The By-Laws may also be adopted, altered or repealed in whole or in part at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of the Corporation outstanding and entitled to vote thereon.
Amendments to the By-Laws.
3. No holder of any class of stock of the Corporation, whether now or hereafter authorized or outstanding, shall have any preemptive, preferential or other right to subscribe for or purchase any class of the Corporation's stock, whether now or hereafter authorized or outstanding, which it may at any time issue or sell, or to subscribe for or purchase any notes, debentures, bonds or other securities which it may at any time issue or sell, whether or not the same be convertible into or exchangeable for or carry options or warrants to purchase
No Preemptive Rights.
 
shares of any class of the Corporation's stock or other securities, or to receive or purchase any warrants or options which may be issued or granted evidencing the right to purchase any such stock or other securities, it being intended by this Section 3 that all preemptive rights of any kind applicable to securities of the Corporation are eliminated.
4. Except as otherwise provided in this Certificate of Incorporation or the By-Laws or as otherwise provided by applicable law, the Corporation may take or authorize any action upon the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter thereof. Action shall be taken by stockholders of the Corporation only at annual or special meetings of stockholders, and stockholders may act in lieu of a meeting only by unanimous written consent.
Vote Required to Take Action; Action by Written Consent.
5. The Board of Directors may determine from time to time the amount and type of compensation which shall be paid to its members for service on the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall also have the power, in its discretion, to provide for and to pay to directors rendering services to the Corporation not ordinarily rendered by directors, as such, special compensation appropriate to the value of such services, as determined by the Board from time to time.
Compensation of Directors.
6. No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of the Corporation's directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his, her or their votes are counted for such purpose if (i) the material facts as to his, her or their relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or committee, and the Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (ii) the material facts as to his, her or their relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (iii) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
Interested Transactions.
7. The Corporation shall indemnify (a) its directors to the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware now or hereafter in force, including the advancement of expenses under the procedures provided by such laws, (b) all of its officers to the same extent as it shall indemnify its directors, and (c) its officers who are not directors to such further extent as shall be authorized by the Board of Directors and be consistent with law. Subject only to any limitations prescribed by the laws of the State of Delaware now or hereafter in force, the foregoing shall not limit the authority of the Corporation to indemnify the directors, officers and other employees and agents of this Corporation consistent with law and shall not be deemed to be exclusive of any rights to which those indemnified may be entitled as a matter of law or under any resolution, By-Law provision, or agreement.
Indemnification.
8. Whenever a compromise or arrangement is proposed between this Corporation and its creditors or any class of them and/or between this Corporation and its stockholders or any class of them, any court of equitable jurisdiction within the State of Delaware may, on the application in a summary way of this
Court-Ordered Meetings of Creditors and/or Stockholders.
 
Corporation or of any creditor or stockholder thereof, or on the application of any receiver or receivers appointed for this Corporation under the provisions of Section 291 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code or on the application of trustees in dissolution or of any receiver or receivers appointed for this Corporation under the provisions of Section 279 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code order a meeting of the creditors or class of creditors, and/or of the stockholders or class of stockholders of this Corporation, as the case may be, to be summoned in such manner as such court directs. If a majority in number representing three-fourths in value of the creditors or class of creditors, and/or of the stockholders or class of stockholders of this Corporation, as the case may be, agree to any compromise or arrangement and to any reorganization of this Corporation as a consequence of such compromise or arrangement, the said compromise or arrangement and the said reorganization shall, if sanctioned by the court to which such application has been made, be binding on all the creditors or class of creditors, and/or on all the stockholders or class of stockholders, of this Corporation, as the case may be, and also on this Corporation.
9. To the fullest extent permitted by Delaware statutory or decisional law, as amended or interpreted, no director of this Corporation shall be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director. This Section 9 does not affect the availability of equitable remedies for breach of fiduciary duties.
Liability of Directors.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be executed and attested to by its duly authorized officers this 27th day of July, 2011.

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
. The address of the registered office of Corporation within the State of Delaware is 2711 Centerville Road, City of Wilmington, 19808, County of New Castle. The name of the registered agent of the Corporation at such address is The Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Inc.
Section 1.
Registered Office
. The Corporation shall also have and maintain an office or principal place of business at One Post Street, San Francisco, California and may also have offices at such other places, both within and without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.
Section 2.
Other Offices
. Meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors, or, if not so designated, then at the office of the Corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 of ARTICLE I hereof.
Section 1.
Place of Meetings
. Each annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation for the purpose of election of directors and for such other business as may lawfully come before the stockholders at such meeting, shall be held on such date and at such time as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors, or, if not so designated, then at 10:00 a.m. on the last Wednesday in July in each year if not a legal holiday, and, if a legal holiday, at the same hour and place on the next succeeding day not a holiday.
Section 2.
Annual Meetings
 
. Special meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation may be called, for any purpose or purposes, by the Chairman of the Board or the President or the Board of Directors at any time. Stockholders may not call special meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation.
Section 3.
Special Meetings
Section 4.
Notice of Meetings.
Except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, written notice of each meeting of stockholders, specifying the place, date and hour and purpose or purposes of the meeting, shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat, directed to such stockholder's address as it appears upon the books of the Corporation; except that where the matter to be acted on is a merger or consolidation of the Corporation or a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of its assets, such notice shall be given not less than 20 nor more than 60 days prior to such meeting. Such notice may be given in any form or manner permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law, including Section 232 thereof relating to notice by electronic transmission.
(a)
If at any meeting action is proposed to be taken which, if taken, would entitle stockholders fulfilling the requirements of Section 262(d) of the Delaware General Corporation Law to an appraisal of the fair value of their shares, the notice of such meeting shall contain a statement to that effect and shall be accompanied by a copy of that statutory section.
(b)
When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken unless the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or unless after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, in which event a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
(c)
Notice of the time, place and purpose of any meeting of stockholders may be waived in writing, either before or after such meeting, and to the extent permitted by law, will be waived by any stockholder by such stockholder's attendance thereat, in person or by proxy. Any stockholder so waiving notice of such meeting shall be bound by the proceedings of any such meeting in all respects as if due notice thereof had been given.
(d)
Unless and until voted, every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of the person who executed it or of such person's legal representatives or assigns, except in those cases where an irrevocable proxy permitted by statute has been given.
(e)
. At all meetings of stockholders, except where otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these By-Laws, the presence, in person or by proxy duly authorized, of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Shares, the voting of which at such meeting has been enjoined, or which for any reason cannot be lawfully voted at such meeting, shall not be counted to determine a quorum at such meeting.
Section 5.
Quorum
In the absence of a quorum any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned, from time to time, by vote of the holders of a majority of the shares represented thereat, but no other business shall be transacted at such meeting. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present or represented
 
any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting. The stockholders present at a duly called or convened meeting, at which a quorum is present, may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
In the event that at any meeting at which the holders of more than one class or series of the Corporation's capital stock are entitled to vote as a class, a quorum of any such class or series is lacking, the holders of any class or series represented by a quorum may proceed with the transaction of the business to be transacted by such class or series, and if such business is the election of directors, the directors whose successors shall not have been elected shall continue in office until their successors shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified.
Section 6.
Voting Rights.
Except as otherwise provided by law, only persons in whose names shares entitled to vote stand on the stock records of the Corporation on the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting shall be entitled to vote at such meeting. Shares standing in the names of two or more persons shall be voted or represented in accordance with the determination of the majority of such persons, or, if only one of such persons is present in person or represented by proxy, such person shall have the right to vote such shares and such shares shall be deemed to be represented for the purpose of determining a quorum.
(a)
Every person entitled to vote or execute consents shall have the right to do so either in person or by an agent or agents authorized by a written proxy executed by such person or such person's duly authorized agent, which proxy shall be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation at or before the meeting at which it is to be used. Said proxy so appointed need not be a stockholder. No proxy shall be voted on after three years from its date unless the proxy provides for a longer period.
(b)
Without limiting the manner in which a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder as proxy pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section, the following shall constitute a valid means by which a stockholder may grant such authority:
(c)
     (1) A stockholder may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for such stockholder as proxy. Execution may be accomplished by the stockholder or such stockholder's authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing such stockholder's signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature.
     (2) A stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such
 
transmission, provided that any such telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by such stockholder. If it is determined that such telegrams, cablegrams or other electronic transmissions are valid, the inspectors or, if there are no inspectors, such other persons making that determination shall specify the information upon which they relied.
Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
(d)
Section 7.
Voting Procedures and Inspectors of Elections.
The Corporation shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. The Corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability.
(a)
The inspectors shall (i) ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, (ii) determine the shares represented at a meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting, and their count of all votes and ballots. The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist the inspectors in the performance of the duties of the inspectors.
(b)
The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting. No ballot, proxies or votes, nor any revocations thereof or changes thereto, shall be accepted by the inspectors after the closing of the polls unless the Court of Chancery upon application by a stockholder shall determine otherwise.
(c)
In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots, the inspectors shall be limited to an examination of the proxies, any envelopes submitted with those proxies, any information provided in accordance with Section 212(c)(2) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, ballots and the regular books and records of the Corporation, except that the inspectors may consider other reliable information for the limited purpose of reconciling proxies and ballots submitted by or on behalf of banks, brokers, their nominees or similar persons which represent more votes than the holder of a proxy is authorized by the record owner to cast or more votes than the stockholder holds of record. If the inspectors consider other reliable information for the limited purpose permitted herein, the inspectors at the time they make their certification pursuant to subsection (b)(v) of this Section shall specify the precise information considered by them,
(d)
 
including the person or persons from whom they obtained the information, when the information was obtained, the means by which the information was obtained and the basis for the inspectors' belief that such information is accurate and reliable.
The provisions of this Section 7 shall not apply to any annual meeting of stockholders held prior to the annual meeting of stockholders held in 1995.
(e)
. The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least 10 days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at said meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, showing the address of and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held and which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not specified, at the place where said meeting is to be held, and the list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
Section 8.
List of Stockholders
.
Section 9.
Stockholder Proposals at Annual Meetings
At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business (other than nominations for election to the Board of Directors, which must comply with the provisions of ARTICLE II, Section 10) shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (i) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (ii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder of the Corporation (A) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 9 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (B) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 9.
(a)
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation, not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within 25 days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure (as defined below) of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs. In no event shall the public disclosure of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
(b)
 
To be in proper form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting, (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting; (ii) as to the stockholder giving notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is being made, (A) the name and address of such person, (B) the class, series and number of all shares of stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such person, (C) the name of each nominee holder for, and the number of, shares owned beneficially but not of record by each such person and (D) whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction has been entered into by or on behalf of such stockholder with respect to the stock of the Corporation and whether and the extent to which any other transaction, agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, stock appreciation or similar rights or borrowing or lending shares of stock) has been made by or on behalf of such stockholder, the effect or intent of any of the foregoing being to manage the risk or benefit of share price changes in the stock price of the Corporation for such person or to increase or decrease the voting power or pecuniary or economic interest of such person with respect to stock of the Corporation; (iii) a description of all agreements, arrangements or understandings (whether written or oral) between or among the stockholder giving the notice and on whose behalf the proposal is being made and any other person or persons in connection with the proposal and any material interest in such business, including any anticipated benefit to such person or persons therefrom; (iv) a representation that the stockholder giving notice intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting; (v) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends, or is part of a group that intends, to deliver a proxy statement or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding shares required to approve or adopt the proposal or otherwise solicit proxies from stockholders in support of the proposal; and (vi) any other information relating to the stockholder giving the notice and on whose behalf the proposal is being made that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filing required to be made in connection with the solicitation of proxies with respect to business brought at an annual meeting of stockholders pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(c)
A stockholder providing notice of business proposed to be brought before an annual meeting shall further update and supplement such notice, if necessary, so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice pursuant to this Section 9 shall be true and correct as of the record date for the meeting, and such update and supplement shall be delivered to or mailed and received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than five business days after the record date for the meeting.
(d)
Notwithstanding anything in the By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at the annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 9, provided, however, that nothing in this Section 9 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any business properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with said procedures.
(e)
The Chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section 9, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
(f)
 
For purposes of ARTICLE II, Sections 9 and 10 of these By-Laws, "public disclosure" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(g)
Nothing contained in this Section 9 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act (or any successor provision of law).
(h)
.
Section 10.
Nominations of Persons for Election to the Board of Directors
In addition to any other applicable requirements, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be made at any annual meeting of stockholders, or at any special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (ii) by any nominating committee or person appointed by the Board of Directors or (iii) by any stockholder of the Corporation (A) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 10 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual or special meeting and (B) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 10.
(a)
Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (i) in the case of an annual meeting not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within 25 days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs; and (ii) in the case of a special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which notice of the date of the special meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the special meeting was made, whichever occurs first. In no event shall the public disclosure of an adjournment or postponement of a stockholder meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
(b)
To be in proper form, such stockholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (B) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (C) the class, series and number of all shares of stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such person, (D) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations for proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, (E) the name of the nominee holder for, and number of, shares owned beneficially but
(c)
 
not of record by such person, and (F) whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction has been entered into by or on behalf of such person with respect to the stock of the Corporation and whether and the extent to which any other transaction, agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, stock appreciation or similar rights or borrowing or lending shares of stock) has been made by or on behalf of such person, the effect or intent of any of the foregoing being to manage the risk or benefit of share price changes in the stock price of the Corporation for such person or to increase or decrease the voting power or pecuniary or economic interest of such person with respect to stock of the Corporation; (ii) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is being made, (A) the name and address of such person, (B) the class, series and number of all shares of stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially, or of record, by such person, (C) the name of the nominee holder for, and the number of, shares owned beneficially but not of record by such person, (D) whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction has been entered into by or on behalf of such person with respect to the stock of the Corporation and whether and the extent to which any other transaction, agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, stock appreciation or similar rights or borrowing or lending shares of stock) has been made by or on behalf of such person, the effect or intent of any of the foregoing being to manage the risk or benefit of share price changes in the stock price of the Corporation for such person or to increase or decrease the voting power or pecuniary or economic interest of such person with respect to stock of the Corporation; (iii) a description of all agreements, arrangements or understandings (whether written or oral) between or among such persons pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by the stockholder and any relationship between or among the stockholder giving notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, on the other hand; (iv) a representation that the stockholder giving notice intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice; (v) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends, or is part of a group that intends, to deliver a proxy statement or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding shares required to elect the nominee or otherwise solicit proxies from stockholders in support of the nomination; and (vi) any other information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filing required to be made in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by (i) a written consent of each proposed nominee to be named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected and (ii) a resignation in the form prescribed by Section 3(c) of ARTICLE III of these By-Laws. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine whether such proposed nominee meets the criteria set forth in the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines to serve as a director of the Corporation , including with regard to the independence of such proposed nominee.
A stockholder providing notice of any nomination proposed to be made at an annual or special meeting shall further update and supplement such notice, if necessary, so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice pursuant to this Section 10 shall be true and correct as of the record date for the annual or special meeting, and such update and supplement shall be delivered to or mailed and received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than five business days after the record date of the meeting.
(d)
 
No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10.
(e)
These provisions shall not apply to the nomination of any persons entitled to be separately elected as directors by holders of preferred stock.
(f)
The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
(g)
. The property, affairs and business of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of its Board of Directors, which may exercise all of the powers of the Corporation, except such as are by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws expressly conferred upon or reserved to the stockholders.
Section 1.
General Powers
.
Section 2.
Number and Term of Office; Removal
Number. The number of directors of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by these By-Laws but in no event shall be less than three (3) or more than fifteen (15), with the exact number to be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.
(a)
Term. Each nominee elected by the stockholders at the 2007 annual meeting of the stockholders to serve as director shall hold office for a term commencing the date of the 2007 annual meeting, or such later date as determined by the Board of Directors, and ending on the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor is elected and qualified, or until such director's earlier resignation or removal. At each annual meeting of stockholders subsequent to the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, each nominee elected by the stockholders to serve as director shall hold office for a term commencing on the date of the annual meeting, or such later date as shall be determined by the Board of Directors, and ending on the date of the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor is elected and qualified, or until such director's earlier resignation or removal.
(b)
Removal. A director may be removed from office, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors and, subject to such removal, death, resignation, retirement or disqualification, shall hold office until such director's term expires and until such director's successor shall be elected and qualified. In no case shall a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director.
(c)
The provisions of this Section 2 shall not apply to directors governed by Section 15 of this ARTICLE III.
 
.
Section 3.
Election of Directors
Majority Voting. Except as provided in paragraph (b) below with respect to Contested Elections, each nominee shall be elected a director by a Majority Vote with respect to that nominee's election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present. For purposes of these By-Laws, a "Majority Vote" means that the number of votes cast in favor of a nominee must exceed the number of votes cast against that nominee's election. Abstentions and broker non-votes, if any, will not count as a vote cast with respect to that nominee.
(a)
Contested Elections. Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast in any Contested Election. For purposes of these By-Laws, a "Contested Election" means an election of directors (i) for which the Secretary of the Corporation has received a notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the Board of Directors in compliance with Section 10 of ARTICLE II of these By-Laws, and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn at least five days prior to the date the Corporation first mails the notice of meeting for such meeting to stockholders.
(b)
Resignation and Replacement of Unsuccessful Incumbents.
(c)
          (i) In order for any person to become a nominee of the Board of Directors for service on the Board of Directors, such person must submit a resignation, contingent (A) on that person not receiving the required vote for re-election, and (B) acceptance of that resignation by the Board of Directors in accordance with policies and procedures adopted by the Board of Directors for such purposes.
          (ii) A resignation that becomes effective pursuant to subsection (c)(i) of this Section 3 shall provide that it is irrevocable.
          (iii) The Board of Directors, acting on the recommendation of the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance, shall within 90 days of receiving the certified results of the stockholder vote pertaining to such election, determine whether to accept the resignation of the unsuccessful incumbent. Absent a determination by the Board of Directors that it is in the best interests of the Corporation for an unsuccessful incumbent to remain as a director, no such person shall be elected by the Board to serve as a director, and the Board shall accept that person's resignation.
Acceptance of a Director's Resignation. If the Board of Directors accepts the resignation of a director who is an unsuccessful incumbent, or if in a non-Contested Election a nominee for director who is not an incumbent director does not receive a Majority Vote, then the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 of ARTICLE III of these By-Laws, or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 of ARTICLE III of these By-Laws.
(d)
. Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors for any cause other than by reason of an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority of the remaining members of the Board of Directors, although such majority is less than a quorum, or by
Section 4.
Vacancies
 
the stockholders. Any vacancy occurring by reason of an increase in the number of directors may be filled by action of a majority of the entire Board of Directors or by the stockholders. A director elected by the Board of Directors to fill a vacancy shall be elected to hold office until the expiration of the term for which he or she was elected and until his or her successor shall have been elected and shall have qualified. A director elected by the stockholders to fill a vacancy shall be elected to hold office until the expiration of the term for which he or she was elected and until his or her successor shall have been elected and shall have qualified. The provisions of this Section 4 shall not apply to directors governed by Section 15 of this ARTICLE III.
. A director may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors or to the Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect when the resignation is delivered unless the resignation specifies (a) a later effective date or (b) an effective date determined upon the happening of an event or events (including but not limited to a failure to receive the required vote in an election pursuant to Section 3 of ARTICLE III of these By-Laws, and the Board of Directors' acceptance of the resignation).
Section 5.
Resignations
. The Board of Directors, as constituted following the vote of stockholders at any meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors, may hold its first meeting for the purpose of organization and the transaction of business, if a quorum be present, immediately after such meeting and at the same place, and notice of such meeting need not be given. Such first meeting may be held at any other time and place specified in a notice given as hereinafter provided for special meetings of the Board of Directors or in a consent and waiver of notice thereof signed by all the directors.
Section 6.
Annual Meetings
. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such places and times as may be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board.
Section 7.
Regular Meetings
. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board or the President and shall be called by the Secretary upon the written request of any three directors, and each special meeting shall be held at such place and time as shall be specified in the notice thereof. At least twenty-four (24) hours' notice of each such special meeting shall be given to each director personally or sent to him or her addressed to his or her residence or usual place of business by telephone, telegram or facsimile transmission, or at least 120 hours' notice of each such special meeting shall be given to each director by letter sent to him or her addressed as aforesaid or on such shorter notice and by such means, including electronic transmission, as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem reasonably necessary or appropriate in light of the circumstances. Any notice by letter or telegram shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail so addressed or when duly deposited at an appropriate office for transmission by telegram, as the case may be. Such notice need not state the business to be transacted at or the purpose or purposes of such special meeting. No notice of any such special meeting of the Board of Directors need be given to any director who attends in person or who, in writing executed and filed with the records of the meeting, either before or after the holding thereof, waives such notice. No notice need be given of an adjourned meeting of the Board of Directors.
Section 8.
Special Meetings; Notice
 
. A majority of the total number of directors, but in no event less than two directors, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any annual, regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors. Except as otherwise provided by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws, the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting, at which a quorum is present, shall be the act of the Board of Directors. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum be had.
Section 9.
Quorum and Manner of Acting
. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if a written consent to such action is signed or transmitted electronically by all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, and such written consent is filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or such committee.
Section 10.
Consent in Writing
Section 11.
Committees.
. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of a quorum of the Board, appoint an Executive Committee of not less than three members, each of whom shall be a director. The Executive Committee, to the extent permitted by law, shall have and may exercise when the Board of Directors is not in session all powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, including, without limitation, the power and authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock, except such Committee shall not have the power or authority (i) to approve, adopt, or recommend to stockholders any action or matter required by the Delaware General Corporation Law to be submitted for stockholder approval; or (ii) to adopt, amend, or repeal any By-Law of the Corporation.
(a)
Executive Committee
. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of a quorum of the Board, from time to time appoint such other committees as may be permitted by law. Such other committees appointed by the Board of Directors shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the resolution or resolutions creating such committee, but in no event shall any such committee have the powers denied to the Executive Committee in these By-Laws.
(b)
Other Committees
. The members of all committees of the Board of Directors shall serve a term coexistent with that of the Board of Directors which shall have appointed such committees. The Board, subject to the provisions of subsections (a) or (b) of this Section 11, may at any time increase or decrease the number of members of a committee or terminate the existence of a committee; provided that no committee shall consist of less than one member. The membership of a committee member shall terminate on the date of his or her death or voluntary resignation, but the Board may at any time for any reason remove any individual committee member and the Board may fill any committee vacancy created by death, resignation, removal or increase in the number of members of the committee. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee, and, in addition, in the absence or disqualification of any member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he, she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another
(c)
Term
 
member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
. Unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide, regular meetings of the Executive Committee or any other committee appointed pursuant to this Section 11 shall be held at such times and places as are determined by the Board of Directors, or by any such committee, and when notice thereof has been given to each member of such committee, no further notice of such regular meetings need be given thereafter; special meetings of any such committee may be held at the principal office of the Corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 of ARTICLE I hereof; or at any place which has been designated from time to time by resolution of such committee or by written consent of all members thereof, and may be called by any director who is a member of such committee, upon written notice to the members of such committee of the time and place of such special meeting given in the manner provided for the giving of written notice to members of the Board of Directors of the time and place of special meetings of the Board of Directors. Notice of any special meeting of any committee may be waived in writing at any time after the meeting and will be waived by any director by attendance thereat. Fifty percent (50%) of the authorized number of members of any such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee.
(d)
Meetings
. The Board of Directors or any committee thereof may participate in a meeting by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment if all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, participating in the meeting can hear each other at the same time. Participation in a meeting by these means shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
Section 12.
Telephone Meetings
. The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and/or stated compensation as director. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.
Section 13.
Compensation
. No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of the Corporation's directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his, her or their votes are counted for such purpose if (i) the material facts as to his, her or their relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or committee, and the Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (ii) the material facts as to his, her or their relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (iii) the contract or transaction is fair as to the
Section 14.
Interested Directors
 
Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
. To the extent that any holders of any class or series of stock other than Common Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the separate right, voting as a class or series, to elect directors, the directors elected by such class or series shall be deemed to constitute an additional class of directors and shall have a term of office for one year or such other period as may be designated by the provisions of such class or series providing such separate voting right to the holders of such class or series of stock, and any such class of directors shall be in addition to directors serving pursuant to Section 2 of this ARTICLE III. Any directors so elected shall be subject to removal in such manner as may be provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation of this Corporation. The provisions of Sections 2, 3 and 4 of this ARTICLE III do not apply to directors governed by this Section 15.
Section 15.
Directors Elected by Special Class or Series
. The officers of the Corporation, who shall be chosen by the Board of Directors at its first meeting after each annual meeting of stockholders, shall be a Chairman of the Board, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, a Secretary and a Controller. The Board of Directors from time to time may choose such other officers as it shall deem appropriate. Any one person may hold any number of offices of the Corporation at any one time unless specifically prohibited therefrom by law. The Chairman of the Board and the President shall be chosen from among the directors; the other officers need not be directors.
Section 1.
Designation of Officers
. The term of office of each officer shall be until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor is elected and shall have qualified, or until his or her death, resignation or removal, whichever is sooner. Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors or to the Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Any officer may be removed at any time either with or without cause by the Board of Directors.
Section 2.
Term of Office; Resignation; Removal
. A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause, may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Board of Directors.
Section 3.
Vacancies
. Subject to the power of the Board of Directors in its discretion to change and redefine the duties of the officers of the Corporation by resolution in such manner as it may from time to time determine, the duties of the officers of the Corporation shall be as follows:
Section 4.
Authority of Officers
 
. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors. Subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, he or she shall generally manage the affairs of the Board and perform such other duties as are assigned by the Board.
(a)
Chairman of the Board
. The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, and shall execute all the powers and perform all the duties usual to such office. Subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, he or she shall have the responsibility for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation. The President shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed or assigned to him or her from time to time by the Board of Directors.
(b)
President
. The other officers of the Corporation shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, as well as such powers and duties as the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee or the Chief Executive Officer may prescribe.
(c)
Other Officers
. Any one of the Chief Executive Officer, President, or Vice President Human Resources and Administration (each one an "Appointing Person"), may from time to time confer upon any employee of a division of the Corporation the title of President, Vice President, Treasurer or Secretary of such division or any other divisional title or titles deemed appropriate. Any such titles so conferred may be discontinued and withdrawn at any time by any one Appointing Person. Any employee of a division designated by such a divisional title shall have the powers and duties with respect to such division as shall be prescribed by the Appointing Person. The conferring, withdrawal or discontinuance of divisional titles shall be in writing and shall be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation.
Section 5.
Divisional Titles
. The salaries and other compensation of the principal officers of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Section 6.
Salaries
. The Board of Directors may in its discretion determine the method and designate the signatory officer or officers or other person or persons, to execute any corporate instrument or document, or to sign the corporate name without limitation, except where otherwise provided by law, and such execution or signature shall be binding upon the Corporation. All checks and drafts drawn on banks or other depositories on funds to the credit of the Corporation or in special accounts of the Corporation, shall be signed by such person or persons as the Treasurer or such other person designated by the Board of Directors for that purpose shall authorize so to do.
Section 1.
Execution of Instruments
. All stock and other securities of other corporations and business entities owned or held by the Corporation for itself, or for other parties in any capacity, shall be voted, and all proxies with respect thereto shall be executed, by the person authorized to do so by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 2.
Voting of Securities Owned by the Corporation
 
. Certificates for the shares of stock of the Corporation shall be in such form as is consistent with the Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law. Every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by, the Chairman of the Board (if there be such an officer appointed), or by the President or any Vice President and by the Treasurer or Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, certifying the number of shares owned by such stockholder in the Corporation. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue. If the Corporation shall be authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock, provided that, except as otherwise provided in Section 202 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, in lieu of the foregoing requirements, there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock, a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
Section 1.
Form and Execution of Certificates
. The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate or certificates to be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or certificates, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost or destroyed certificate or certificates, or such owner's legal representative, to indemnify the Corporation in such manner as it shall require and/or to give the Corporation a surety bond in such form and amount as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost or destroyed.
Section 2.
Lost Certificates
. Transfers of record of shares of stock of the Corporation shall be made only upon its books by the holders thereof, in person or by attorney duly authorized, and upon the surrender of a certificate or certificates for a like number of shares, properly endorsed.
Section 3.
Transfers
. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of
Section 4.
Fixing Record Dates
 
any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action. If no record date is fixed: (1) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; (2) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is necessary, shall be the day on which the first written consent is expressed; (3) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
. The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.
Section 5.
Registered Stockholders
. The Board of Directors may make such rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates for shares of the stock and other securities of the Corporation, and may appoint transfer agents and registrars of any class of stock or other securities of the Corporation.
Section 6.
Regulations
. All bonds, debentures and other corporate securities of the Corporation, other than stock certificates, may be signed by the Chairman of the Board (if there be such an officer appointed), or the President or any Vice President or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of Directors and the corporate seal impressed thereon or a facsimile of such seal imprinted thereon and attested by the signature of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer; provided, however, that where any such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall be authenticated by the manual signature of a trustee under an indenture pursuant to which such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall be issued, the signature of the persons signing and attesting the corporate seal on such bond, debenture or other corporate security may be the imprinted facsimile of the signatures of such persons. Interest coupons appertaining to any such bond, debenture or other corporate security, authenticated by a trustee as aforesaid, shall be signed by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation, or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or bear imprinted thereon the facsimile signature of such person. In case any officer who shall have signed or attested any bond, debenture or other corporate security or whose facsimile signature shall appear thereon shall have ceased to be such officer before the bond, debenture or other corporate security so signed or attested shall have been delivered, such bond, debenture or other corporate security nevertheless may be adopted by the Corporation and issued and delivered as though the person who signed the same or whose facsimile signature shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer of the Corporation.
Section 7.
Other Securities of the Corporation
 
The corporate seal shall consist of a die bearing the name of the Corporation and the state and date of its incorporation. Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
. Subject to Section 3 of this ARTICLE VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if he or she acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful. The right to indemnification conferred in this ARTICLE VIII shall be a contract right.
Section 1.
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings Other Than Those by or in the Right of the Corporation
nolo contendere
. Subject to Section 3 of this ARTICLE VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if he or she acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation; except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view
Section 2.
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings by or in the Right of the Corporation
 
of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
. Any indemnification under this ARTICLE VIII (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director or officer is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or Section 2 of this ARTICLE VIII, as the case may be. Such determination shall be made (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (ii) if such a quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (iii) by the stockholders. To the extent, however, that a director or officer of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding described above, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he or she shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection therewith, without the necessity of authorization in the specific case.
Section 3.
Authorization of Indemnification
. For purposes of any determination under Section 3 of this ARTICLE VIII, a person shall be deemed to have acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, or, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, to have had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful, if his or her action is based on the records or books of account of the Corporation or another enterprise, or on information supplied to him or her by the officers of the Corporation or another enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Corporation or another enterprise or on information or records given or reports made to the Corporation or another enterprise by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected with reasonable care by the Corporation or another enterprise. The term "another enterprise" as used in this Section 4 shall mean any other corporation or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which such person is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent. The provisions of this Section 4 shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the circumstances in which a person may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Sections 1 or 2 of this ARTICLE VIII, as the case may be.
Section 4.
Good Faith Defined
. Notwithstanding any contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this ARTICLE VIII, and notwithstanding the absence of any determination thereunder, any director or officer may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction in the State of Delaware for indemnification to the extent otherwise permissible under Sections 1 and 2 of this ARTICLE VIII. The basis of such indemnification by a court shall be a determination by such court that indemnification of the director or officer is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standards of conduct set forth in Sections 1 or 2 of this ARTICLE VIII, as the case may be. Neither a contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this ARTICLE VIII nor the absence of any determination thereunder shall be a defense to such application or create a presumption that the director or officer seeking indemnification has not met any applicable standard of conduct. Notice of any application for indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 shall be given to the Corporation promptly upon the filing of such application. If
Section 5.
Indemnification by a Court
 
successful, in whole or in part, the director or officer seeking indemnification shall also be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such application.
. Expenses incurred by a director or officer in defending or investigating a threatened or pending action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this ARTICLE VIII.
Section 6.
Expenses Payable in Advance
. The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted pursuant to this ARTICLE VIII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any By-Law, agreement, contract, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or pursuant to the direction (howsoever embodied) of any court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise, both as to action in his or her official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, it being the policy of the Corporation that indemnification of the persons specified in Sections 1 and 2 of this ARTICLE VIII shall be made to the fullest extent permitted by law. The provisions of this ARTICLE VIII shall not be deemed to preclude the indemnification of any person who is not specified in Sections 1 or 2 of this ARTICLE VIII but whom the Corporation has the power or obligation to indemnify under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or otherwise.
Section 7.
Nonexclusivity of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
. The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him or her and incurred by him or her in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power or the obligation to indemnify him or her against such liability under the provisions of this ARTICLE VIII.
Section 8.
Insurance
. For purposes of this ARTICLE VIII, references to "the Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors or officers, so that any person who is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation, or is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this ARTICLE VIII with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he or she would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued. For purposes of this ARTICLE VIII, references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director or officer with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and a
Section 9.
Certain Definitions
 
person who acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this ARTICLE VIII.
. The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this ARTICLE VIII shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
Section 10.
Survival of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
. Notwithstanding anything contained in this ARTICLE VIII to the contrary, except for proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification (which shall be governed by Section 5 hereof), the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any director or officer in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Section 11.
Limitation on Indemnification
. The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, provide rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to employees and agents of the Corporation similar to those conferred in this ARTICLE VIII to directors and officers of the Corporation.
Section 12.
Indemnification of Employees and Agents
. Any amendment, repeal or modification of this ARTICLE VIII shall not (a) adversely affect any right or protection of any director or officer existing at the time of such amendment, repeal or modification, or (b) apply to the indemnification of any such person for liability, expense, or loss stemming from actions or omissions occurring prior to such amendment, repeal, or modification.
Section 13.
Effect of Amendment
. The Corporation may enter into indemnification agreements with the directors and officers of the Corporation.
Section 14.
Authority to Enter into Indemnification Agreements
Whenever, under any provisions of these By-Laws, notice is required to be given to any stockholder, the same shall be given in writing, timely and duly deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, and addressed to such stockholder's last known post office address as shown by the stock record of the Corporation or its transfer agent. Any notice required to be given to any director may be given by any of the methods stated in Section 8 of ARTICLE III hereof, except that such notice other than one which is delivered personally, shall be sent to such address or (in the case of facsimile telecommunication) facsimile telephone number as such director shall have disclosed in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation, or, in the absence of such filing, to the last known post office address of such director. If no address of a stockholder or director be known, such notice may be sent to the office of the Corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 of ARTICLE I hereof. An affidavit of mailing, executed by a duly authorized and competent employee of the Corporation or its transfer agent appointed with respect to the class of
 
stock affected, specifying the name and address or the names and addresses of the stockholder or stockholders, director or directors, to whom any such notice or notices was or were given, and the time and method of giving the same, shall be conclusive evidence of the statements therein contained. All notices given by mail, as above provided, shall be deemed to have been given as at the time of mailing and all notices given by telegram or other means of electronic transmission shall be deemed to have been given as at the sending time recorded by the telegraph company or other electronic transmission equipment operator transmitting the same. It shall not be necessary that the same method of giving be employed in respect of all directors, but one permissible method may be employed in respect of any one or more, and any other permissible method or methods may be employed in respect of any other or others. The period or limitation of time within which any stockholder may exercise any option or right, or enjoy any privilege or benefit, or be required to act, or within which any director may exercise any power or right, or enjoy any privilege, pursuant to any notice sent such stockholder or such director in the manner above provided, shall not be affected or extended in any manner by the failure of such a stockholder or such director to receive such notice. Whenever any notice is required to be given under the provisions of this statute or of the Certificate of Incorporation, or of these By-Laws, a waiver thereof in writing signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. Whenever notice is required to be given, under any provision of law or of the Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws of the Corporation, to any person with whom communication is unlawful, the giving of such notice to such person shall not be required and there shall be no duty to apply to any governmental authority or agency for a license or permit to give such notice to such person. Any action or meeting which shall be taken or held without notice to any such person with whom communication is unlawful shall have the same force and effect as if such notice had been duly given. In the event that the action taken by the Corporation is such as to require the filing of a certificate under any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the certificate shall state, if such is the fact and if notice is required, that notice was given to all persons entitled to receive notice except such persons with whom communication is unlawful.
The Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, alter and repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation in whole or in part at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors, by vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The By-Laws may also be adopted, altered or repealed in whole or in part at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of the Corporation outstanding and entitled to vote thereon.
 
Certificate of Secretary
The undersigned, Associate General Counsel and Secretary of McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation, hereby certifies that the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of the By-Laws of said Corporation, with all amendments to date of this Certificate.
WITNESS the signature of the undersigned and the seal of the Corporation this 27 day of July, 2011.
th


