FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20110228103917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     The information set forth in Item 2.03 is incorporated herein by reference.
On February 23, 2011, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters"), pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell to the Underwriters $600 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.25% Notes due March 1, 2016 (the "2016 Notes"), $600 million aggregate principal amount of its 4.75% Notes due March 1, 2021 (the "2021 Notes") and $500 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.00% Notes due March 1, 2041 (the "2041 Notes" and, together with the 2016 Notes and the 2021 Notes, the "Notes"). The Notes will be issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 28, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), among the Company, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.) (the "Original Trustee") and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee for the Notes (together with the Original Trustee, the "Trustees").
The 2016 Notes will bear interest at the rate of 3.25% per year. The 2021 Notes will bear interest at the rate of 4.75% per year. The 2041 Notes will bear interest at the rate of 6.00% per year. Interest on the Notes is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning on September 1, 2011. The 2016 Notes will mature on March 1, 2016, the 2021 Notes will mature on March 1, 2021 and the 2041 Notes will mature on March 1, 2041. Upon 30 days' notice to holders of the Notes, the Company may redeem the Notes for cash in whole, at any time, or in part, from time to time, prior to maturity, at redemption prices that include accrued and unpaid interest and a make-whole premium, as specified in the Indenture. However, no make-whole premium will be paid for redemptions of the 2021 Notes on or after December 1, 2020, or for redemptions of the 2041 Notes on or after September 1, 2040. The Indenture includes certain covenants, including limitations on the Company's ability to create certain liens on its assets or enter into sale and leaseback transactions with respect to its properties, or consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of its assets, subject to a number of important exceptions as specified in the Indenture. The Notes will be unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company and will rank equally with all of the Company's existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness from time to time outstanding. The Indenture also contains customary event of default provisions. In the event of the occurrence of both (1) a change of control of the Company and (2) a downgrade of a series of Notes below an investment grade rating by each of Fitch Inc., Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services within a specified period, unless the Company has previously exercised its optional redemption right with respect to that series of Notes in whole, the Company will be required to offer to repurchase the Notes of that series from the holders at a price in cash equal to 101% of the then outstanding principal amount of such series of Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of repurchase.
The public offering price of the 2016 Notes was 99.661% of the principal amount, the public offering price of the 2021 Notes was 99.693% of the principal amount and the public offering price of the 2041 Notes was 98.536% of the principal amount. The Company expects to receive net proceeds (before expenses) of approximately $1,677 million and to use such net proceeds for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of borrowings outstanding under the Senior Bridge Term Loan Agreement among the Company, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto.
The Notes were offered and sold pursuant to the Company's automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-157176) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a prospectus supplement, dated February 23, 2011, together with the accompanying prospectus, dated February 9, 2009, relating to the offering and sale of the Notes.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 28, 2011
Table of Contents

Exhibit 1.1
February 23, 2011
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC      383 Madison Avenue      New York, New York 10179 Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated      One Bryant Park      New York, New York 10036           As Representatives of the several Underwriters           named in Schedule I hereto,
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein, to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule I (the "Underwriters"), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule I of $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.250% Notes due 2016 (the "2016 Notes"), $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.750% Notes due 2021 (the "2021 Notes"), and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.000% Notes due 2041 (the "2041 Notes" and, together with the 2016 Notes and the 2021 Notes, the "Notes"). J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "Representatives") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes.
Introductory.
     The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 28, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture"), among the Company, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee with respect to the Notes (the "Trustee"), and The Bank of New York Mellon Company N.A. (formerly The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.). Certain terms of the Notes will be established pursuant to an officer's certificate (the "Officer's Certificate") to the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture (together with the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"). The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the
 
name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depositary"), pursuant to a Blanket Letter of Representations, dated March 2, 2007 (the "DTC Agreement"), between the Company and the Depositary.
     The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") an automatic shelf registration statement (file number 333-157176) on Form S-3, covering the registration of certain securities, including the Notes, under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Securities Act"), which registration statement was filed not earlier than three years prior to the date hereof and became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e) of the Securities Act ("Rule 462(e)"). Such registration statement, as of any time, means such registration statement as amended by any post-effective amendments thereto to such time, including the exhibits and any schedules thereto at such time, the documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein at such time pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act and the documents otherwise deemed to be a part thereof as of such time pursuant to Rule 430B of the Securities Act ("Rule 430B"), and is referred to herein as the "Registration Statement"; provided, however, that the "Registration Statement" without reference to a time means such registration statement as amended by any post-effective amendments thereto as of the time of the first contract of sale for the Notes, which time shall be considered the "new effective date" of such registration statement with respect to the Notes within the meaning of Rule 430B(f)(2), including the exhibits and schedules thereto as of such time, the documents incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference therein at such time pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act and the documents otherwise deemed to be a part thereof as of such time pursuant to Rule 430B. Each preliminary prospectus and preliminary prospectus supplement used in connection with the offering of the Notes, including the documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act, are collectively referred to herein as the "Preliminary Prospectus." Promptly after execution and delivery of this Agreement (the "Execution Time"), the Company will prepare and file a prospectus supplement relating to the Notes in accordance with the provisions of Rule 424(b) of the Securities Act ("Rule 424(b)"). The final prospectus and the final prospectus supplement, in the form first furnished or made available to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Notes, including the documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act, are collectively referred to herein as the "Prospectus". Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 4:24 p.m. (Eastern time) on February 23, 2011 (the "Initial Sale Time"). For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include the copy filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system ("EDGAR").
     All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary
 
Prospectus, as the case may be, at or prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Exchange Act"), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
          Representations and Warranties of the Company
Section 1.
     The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date (as defined below), as follows:
     (a) The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, or notice objecting to its use, has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with. In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Trust Indenture Act").
Compliance with Registration Requirements.
     At the respective times the Registration Statement and the most recent amendment thereto for purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus) became effective and as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date, the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein (it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof) or to those parts of the Registration Statement that constitute the Statement of Eligibility (Form T-1) under the Trust Indenture Act of the Trustee.
 
     Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the Commission, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
     (b) The term "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated February 23, 2011, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act (each, an "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus"), if any, identified in Schedule II hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The immediately preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Disclosure Package.
     (c) . The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and none of such documents included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and any further documents so filed and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto, when such documents become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
     (d) . At the time of the filing of the Registration Statement, at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) under the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Notes in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 under the Securities Act, and as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act. The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration form.
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
 
     (e) . (i) At the time of the original filing of the Registration Statement, (ii) at the earliest time after the original filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Notes and (iii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (iii)), the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 under the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an ineligible issuer.
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer
     (f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the immediately succeeding sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, including any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein that has not been superseded or modified. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
     (g) The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus (as defined below) or the Registration Statement.
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company.
     (h) There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights.
     (i) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement.
     (j) . The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee, constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent
Authorization of the Indenture
 
transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
     (k) The Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Notes.
     (l) The Notes and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Notes and the Indenture.
     (m) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given therein, there has been no material adverse change, or any development that could reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change, in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, management, business, properties, results of operations or prospects, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (any such change is called a "Material Adverse Change").
No Material Adverse Change
     (n) Deloitte & Touche LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010 incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, are an independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are a registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants.
     (o) The financial statements together with the related notes thereto incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. Such financial statements comply as to form with the accounting requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. No other financial statements are required to be included in the Registration Statement.
Preparation of the Financial Statements.
     (p) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has corporate power and authority to own
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company and its Significant Subsidiary.
 
or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement. The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the condition, financial or otherwise, earnings, management, business, properties, results of operations or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (a "Material Adverse Effect"). McKesson Financial Holdings Ltd., an Ireland corporation, McKesson International Holdings Ltd., an Ireland corporation, California Golden State Finance Company, a California corporation, and CGSF Funding Corporation, a Delaware corporation, are the Company's only significant subsidiaries, as defined by Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act (the "Significant Subsidiaries"), and each such Significant Subsidiary has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation and has the corporate power and authority to own its property and to conduct its business as presently conducted.
     (q) . The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the caption "Capitalization" (other than for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to employee benefit plans described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or upon exercise of outstanding options described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, as the case may be).
Capitalization and Other Capital Stock Matters
     (r) The execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes (collectively, the "Operative Instruments"), and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated thereby, including the issuance and sale of the Notes, (A) will not violate or conflict with or result in any contravention of any provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL"), (B) will not conflict with the charter or by-laws of the Company, (C) will not constitute a violation of, or a breach or default under the laws of any agreement, contract, bond, indenture or other instrument binding upon the Company or any of its subsidiaries that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or that would materially affect the power or ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Operative Instruments or to consummate any of the transactions contemplated by the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus or the Operative Instruments, (D) will not violate or conflict with, or result in any contravention of, any judgment, order or decree of any governmental body, agency or court having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, except for a violation, conflict or contravention which would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, (E) do not and will not result in the imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, pursuant to the terms of any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them or any of their respective properties is bound, except for any liens, charges or encumbrances which would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, and (F) do not require any consent, approval, authorization or order of, or qualification with, any governmental body or agency, except such as
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required.
 
may be required by the securities or Blue Sky laws of the various states, the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the securities laws of any jurisdiction outside the United States in which the Notes are offered.
     (s) There are no legal or governmental proceedings pending or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, threatened to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of the properties of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (i) which are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus and are not so described (including in the documents incorporated therein by reference) or (ii) which could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, or materially affect the power or ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Operative Instruments, or to consummate any of the transactions contemplated by the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or the Operative Instruments. There are no contracts or other documents that are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or Prospectus or to be filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement that are not described or filed as required (including in the documents incorporated therein by reference).
No Material Actions or Proceedings.
     (t) Except as set forth in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, to the Company's knowledge, the Company or its subsidiaries own or possess a valid right to use all patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patentable inventions, trade secrets, know-how and other intellectual property (collectively, the "Intellectual Property") used by the Company or its subsidiaries in, and material to, the conduct of the Company's or its subsidiaries' business as now conducted or as proposed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus to be conducted, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Intellectual Property Rights.
     (u) Each of the Company and its subsidiaries has all necessary consents, authorizations, approvals, orders, certificates and permits (collectively, "Permits") of and from, and has made all declarations and filings with, all federal, state, provincial, local and other governmental authorities, all self-regulatory organizations and all courts and other tribunals, to own, lease, license and use its properties and assets and to conduct its business in the manner described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except to the extent that the failure to obtain or file could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such Permits which, individually or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
All Necessary Permits, etc.
     (v) The Company and its subsidiaries (i) are in compliance with any and all applicable foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or regulated wastes, pollutants or contaminants ("Environmental Laws"), (ii) have received all permits, licenses or other approvals required of them under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses and (iii) are in compliance with all terms and conditions of any such permit, license or approval, except where such noncompliance
Compliance with Environmental Laws.
 
with Environmental Laws, failure to receive required permits, licenses or other approvals or failure to comply with the terms and conditions of such permits, licenses or approvals would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (w) . There are no costs or liabilities associated with Environmental Laws (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up, closure of properties or compliance with Environmental Laws or any permit, license or approval, any related constraints on operating activities and any potential liabilities to third parties) which would, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, except as otherwise disclosed or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Environmental Costs
     (x) The Company and its subsidiaries have filed all necessary federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise tax returns in a timely manner and have paid all taxes required to be paid by any of them and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against any of them, except for any taxes, assessments, fines or penalties as may be being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings, except where a default to make such filings or payments would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Tax Law Compliance.
     (y) The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act").
Company Not an "Investment Company".
     (z) The Company has not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would be reasonably expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation.
     (aa) . The Company has complied in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (collectively, the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act").
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
     (bb) . None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder ("FCPA"), including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments
 
policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
     (cc) . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, the operations of the Company are and have been conducted at all times in compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or regulatory body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened.
Money Laundering
     (dd) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department ("OFAC"); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
OFAC
     (ee) The Company maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that complies with the requirements of the Exchange Act and has been designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The internal control over financial reporting of the Company is effective. The Company has established and maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) in accordance with the rules and regulations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
Controls.
     Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
     
Section 2.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Notes.
     (a) The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of the 2016 Notes, the 2021 Notes, and the 2041 Notes set forth opposite its name on Schedule I, plus any additional principal amount of Notes that such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to Section 10 of this Agreement, at a purchase price of 99.061% of the principal amount of the 2016 Notes, 99.043%
The Notes.
 
of the principal amount of the 2021 Notes, and 97.661% of the principal amount of the 2041 Notes, payable on the Closing Date.
     (b) Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY 10017 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on February 28, 2011, or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "Closing Date").
The Closing Date.
     (c) The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Notes.
     (d) Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Notes.
     It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
     (e) The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters the Notes at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The Notes shall be issued in book-entry only form and shall be represented by one or more global certificates in such denominations and registered in such names and denominations as the Representatives shall have requested at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City as the Representatives may designate. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Notes.
     
Section 3.
Covenants of the Company.
     The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
     (a) The Company will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission during the Prospectus Delivery Period, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.
 
the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing, suspending or objecting to the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 under the Securities Act was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such document. The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
     (b) During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Notes by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 under the Securities Act (the "Prospectus Delivery Period"), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments.
     (c) The Company will deliver, upon request, to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements.
     (d) The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses.
     (e) . The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
     (f) The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Notes for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes. The Company shall not be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business. The Company will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Notes for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Blue Sky Compliance.
     (g) The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds.
     (h) The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its reasonable best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary.
     (i) During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations.
     (j) During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
 
to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase, or otherwise transfer or dispose of, directly or indirectly, any debt securities of or guaranteed by the Company which are substantially similar to the Notes.
     (k) . The Company will prepare a final term sheet, in a form approved by the Representatives and included in Exhibit A to Schedule II to this Agreement, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the "Final Term Sheet"). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Final Term Sheet
     (l) . The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 under the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Schedule II to this Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus." The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 under the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(k).
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
     (m) The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Manipulation of Price.
     (n) . If immediately prior to the third anniversary (the "Renewal Deadline") of the initial effective date of the Registration Statement, any of the Notes remain unsold by the Underwriters, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline file, if it has not already done so and is eligible to do so, a new automatic shelf registration statement relating to the Notes, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives. If the Company is no longer eligible to file an automatic shelf registration statement, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline, if it has not already done so, file a new shelf registration statement relating to the Notes, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, and will use its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective within 180 days after the Renewal Deadline. The Company will take all other action reasonably necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to
Registration Statement Renewal Deadline
 
continue as contemplated in the expired registration statement relating to the Notes. References herein to the "Registration Statement" shall include such new automatic shelf registration statement or such new shelf registration statement, as the case may be.
     (o) . If at any time when Notes remain unsold by the Underwriters the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Notes, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective as promptly as practicable and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action reasonably necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible to use the automatic shelf registration form. References herein to the "Registration Statement" shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
     (p) . The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) of the Securities Act and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees
     (q) . The Company will timely file such reports pursuant to the Exchange Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its respective security holders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act.
Rule 158
     The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
     The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Notes (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Notes, (v) all filing fees, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Notes in accordance with Section 3(f) hereof for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if
Section 4.
Payment of Expenses.
 
requested by the Representatives, preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with the review, if any, by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("FINRA") of the terms of the sale of the Notes, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Notes, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Notes with the ratings agencies, (ix) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Notes by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
     The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
Section 5.
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters.
          a) . The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and on the Closing Date no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or suspending or preventing the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or Prospectus shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430B under the Securities Act). The Company has not received any notice from the Commission pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement.
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
          b) On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letter.
          c) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm for the Company, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to
Bring-down Comfort Letter
 
subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
d) If the Registration Statement and/or the offering of the Notes has been filed with FINRA for review, FINRA shall not have raised any objection with respect to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
No Objection.
e) For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change.
          (i) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change; and
          (ii) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act.
          f) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the opinion of Laureen E. Seeger, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, dated as of such Closing Date, in the form agreed upon by the parties hereto.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company
          g) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special counsel for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, in the form agreed upon by the parties hereto.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.
          h) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
          i) On the Closing Date, the Representative shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer or the Treasurer of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate.
          (i) the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any order suspending or preventing the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or, to the knowledge of such officers, threatened by the Commission;
          (ii) the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of such Closing Date; and
 
          (iii) the Company has complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date.
          j) On or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional Documents.
     If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
     If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5, 10 or 11, or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses (including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges) that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Notes.
Section 6.
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses.
     This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
Section 7.
Effectiveness of this Agreement.
     
Section 8.
Indemnification.
     (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Disclosure
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
 
Package or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
provided, however
     (b) Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expense reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers.
 
statements set forth in the third paragraph concerning the terms of the offering by the Underwriters, the third sentence of the seventh paragraph regarding market making by the Underwriters, and the eighth paragraph concerning short sales, stabilizing transactions and purchases to cover short positions created by the Underwriters, in each case, under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
     (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, such indemnified party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party, unless: (i) the employment of such counsel has been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed promptly to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or any affiliate of the indemnifying party, and such indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party or (y) a conflict may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, which firm shall be designated in writing by the Representatives and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence, in which case the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures.
 
     (d) The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 8(c) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements.
     If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Notes as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Section 9.
Contribution.
 
     The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
     The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
     Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule I. For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
     If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Notes, which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion to the aggregate principal amounts of such Notes set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule I bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Notes and the aggregate principal amount of such Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected. For purposes of this Section 10, the 2016
Section 10.
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters.
 
Notes, the 2021 Notes and the 2041 Notes shall be treated as three separate series of Notes, and the term Notes in this Section 10 shall apply to each series separately.
     As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
     Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or The New York Stock Exchange, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market or The New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or FINRA; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any of federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Notes in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; (iv) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall have occurred any Material Adverse Change; or (v) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Section 11.
Termination of this Agreement.
     . . The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the
Section 12
No Fiduciary Duty
 
Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
     This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
     The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling the Underwriter, the Company, the officers or employees of the Company, or any person controlling the Company, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Notes and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
Section 13.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery.
     All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
Section 14.
Notices.
     If to the Representatives:
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC 383 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10179 Facsimile: (212) 834-6081 Attention: High Grade Syndicate Desk
and
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated One Bryant Park New York, NY 10036 Facsimile: (646) 855-5958 Attention: High Grade Transaction Management/Legal
with a copy to:
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP 450 Lexington Avenue New York, NY 10017 Facsimile: (212) 450-4990 Attention: Alan Dean
 
     If to the Company:
McKesson Corporation One Post Street San Francisco, CA 94104 Facsimile: (415) 983-8826 Attention: General Counsel
with a copy to:
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP 300 South Grand Avenue, Suite 3400 Los Angeles, CA 90071 Facsimile: (213) 621-5234 Attention: Gregg A. Noel
     Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
     This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees, affiliates, agents and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Notes as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
Section 15.
Successors.
     The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Section 16.
Partial Unenforceability.
     THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THAT STATE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW.
Section 17.
Governing Law Provisions.
     . The Company acknowledges that the Underwriters' research analysts and research departments are required to be independent from their respective investment banking divisions and are subject to certain regulations and internal policies, and that such Underwriters' research analysts may hold views and make statements or investment recommendations and/or publish research reports with respect to the Company, its subsidiaries and/or the offering of the Notes that differ from the views of their respective investment banking divisions. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent
Section 18.
Research Analyst Independence
 
permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the Underwriters with respect to any conflict of interest that may arise from the fact that the views expressed by their independent research analysts and research departments may be different from or inconsistent with the views or advice communicated to the Company by such Underwriters' investment banking divisions. The Company acknowledges that each of the Underwriters is a full service securities firm and as such from time to time, subject to applicable securities laws, may effect transactions for its own account or the account of its customers and hold long or short positions in debt or equity securities of the companies that may be the subject of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
     This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
Section 19.
General Provisions.
     Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company five counterparts hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
     The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated     Acting as Representatives of the     several Underwriters named in     the attached Schedule I.
 
 
 
Exhibit A to Schedule II
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling J.P. Morgan Securities LLC collect at 1-212-834-4533 or Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated toll-free at 1-800-294-1322.
This pricing term sheet supplements the preliminary prospectus supplement dated February 23, 2011 and prospectus dated February 9, 2009.

Exhibit 4.2
 
          FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this ""), dated as of February 28, 2011, between McKESSON CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (the ""), and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.) (the "," and, together with the Series Trustee, each a "").
Supplemental Indenture
Issuer
Series Trustee
Original Trustee
Trustee
          WHEREAS, the Issuer has heretofore executed and delivered to the Original Trustee an Indenture dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "" and, together with this Supplemental Indenture, the "") providing for the issuance by the Issuer from time to time of its debt securities to be issued in one or more series;
Base Indenture
Indenture
          WHEREAS, the Issuer, in the exercise of the power and authority conferred upon and reserved to it under the provisions of the Base Indenture and pursuant to appropriate resolutions of the Board of Directors, has duly determined to make, execute and deliver to the Series Trustee this Supplemental Indenture to the Base Indenture in order to issue three new series of debt securities to be designated as the "3.25% Notes due 2016" (the ""), the "4.75% Notes due 2021" (the "") and the "6.00% Notes due 2041" (the "" and, collectively with the 2016 Notes and the 2021 Notes, the ""), and to set forth the terms that will be applicable thereto and the forms thereof;
2016 Notes
2021 Notes
2041 Notes
Notes
          WHEREAS, the Issuer has duly determined to appoint Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Series Trustee, registrar and paying agent under the Indenture with respect to the Notes (but only with respect to the Notes) and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association is willing to accept such appointment with respect to the Notes;
          WHEREAS, the Issuer is entering into this Supplemental Indenture with the Original Trustee and the Series Trustee to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment thereunder by the Series Trustee with respect to the Notes (but only with respect to the Notes), to add to or change any of the provisions of the Base Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts thereunder by more than one Trustee, to make certain amendments to the Base Indenture pursuant to Section 8.1(f) of the Base Indenture to expressly permit the appointment of the Series Trustee as Trustee for the Notes (but only with respect to the Notes), and to make certain other amendments to the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes (but only with respect to the Notes);
          WHEREAS, the Issuer has requested that the Original Trustee enter into this Supplemental Indenture in connection with (i) the foregoing amendments and (ii) the Issuer's appointment of the Series Trustee with all of the rights, powers, trusts, duties and obligations of Trustee, registrar and paying agent with respect to the Notes (but only with respect to the Notes);
          WHEREAS, Sections 2.1, 2.3, 8.1(c), 8.1(e) and 8.1(f) of the Base Indenture provide, among other things, that the Issuer and the Trustee may, without the consent of Holders, enter into indentures supplemental to the Base Indenture to add to the covenants of the Issuer for the benefit of the Holders of notes and to provide for specific terms applicable to any series of notes; and
          WHEREAS, all things necessary to make the Notes, when executed by the Issuer and authenticated and delivered by the Series Trustee or any Authenticating Agent and issued upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Indenture against payment therefor, the valid, binding and legal obligations of the Issuer and to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal agreement of the Issuer, have been done.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
          Section 1.01 .
Application of this Supplemental Indenture
          Notwithstanding any other provision of this Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, including the covenants set forth in the Annexes hereto, are expressly and solely for the benefit of the Notes. Each of the series of the Notes constitutes a series of notes as provided in Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture.
          Section 1.02 .
Effect of this Supplemental Indenture
          With respect to the Notes only, the Base Indenture shall be supplemented pursuant to Sections 2.1, 2.3, 8.1(c), 8.1(e) and 8.1(f) thereof to establish the terms of the Notes as set forth in this Supplemental Indenture, including as follows:
          (a) The definitions set forth in Article I of the Base Indenture shall be modified to the extent provided in Article II of this Supplemental Indenture.
          (b) The forms and terms of the securities representing the Notes required to be established pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 2.3 of the Base Indenture shall be established as set forth on hereto with respect to the 2016 Notes, on hereto with respect to the 2021 Notes and on hereto with respect to the 2041 Notes;
Annex A
Annex B
Annex C
          (c) Section 8.1(f) of the Base Indenture regarding the appointment of a successor Trustee by entering into of supplemental indentures without the consent of Holders shall be amended and replaced in its entirety by Section 4.01 of this Supplemental Indenture; and
          (d) Section 9.1(a) of the Base Indenture regarding the consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance of the Issuer shall be amended and replaced in its entirety by Section 4.02 of this Supplemental Indenture.
          Section 2.01 .
Definitions
          (a) All capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Base Indenture.
          (b) To the extent a defined term is defined both in this Supplemental Indenture, including the Annexes hereto, and in the Base Indenture, the definition in this Supplemental Indenture, including the Annexes hereto, shall govern with respect to the Notes.
          (c) The following definition shall have the meaning assigned below with respect to the Notes:
          "" means the office of the Series Trustee at which the corporate trust business of the Series Trustee shall, at any particular time, be principally administered, which office is, as of the date of this Supplemental Indenture, located at 707 Wilshire Boulevard, 17 Floor, Los Angeles, CA 90017, Attention: Corporate Trust Department.
Corporate Trust Office
th
 
          Section 3.01
Appointment by the Issuer of Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Series Trustee etc.
          Pursuant to the Base Indenture, as amended by this Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer hereby appoints Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Series Trustee, registrar and paying agent under the Indenture with respect to the Notes (but only with respect to the Notes) with all of the rights, powers, trusts, duties and obligations of Trustee, registrar and paying agent under the Indenture with respect to the Notes (but only with respect to the Notes) with like effect as if originally named as such in the Indenture.
          Section 3.02
Acceptance by Wells Fargo Bank, National Association of Appointment as Series Trustee, etc.
          Wells Fargo Bank, National Association hereby accepts its appointment as Series Trustee, registrar and paying agent under the Indenture with respect to the Notes (but only with respect to the Notes) and accepts all of the rights, powers, trusts, duties and obligations of Trustee, registrar and paying agent under the Indenture with respect to the Notes (but only with respect to the Notes), upon the terms and conditions set forth herein and therein, with like effect as if originally named as such in the Indenture. Pursuant to the Base Indenture, there shall continue to be vested in the Original Trustee all of its rights, powers, trusts, duties and obligations as Trustee under the Base Indenture with respect to all of the series of securities as to which it has served and continues to serve as Trustee, and the Original Trustee shall have no rights, powers, trusts, duties and obligations with respect to the Notes.
          Section 3.03 .
Eligibility of Series Trustee
          The Series Trustee hereby represents that it is qualified and eligible under the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act and Section 6.10 of the Base Indenture to accept its appointment as Series Trustee with respect to the Notes.
          Section 3.04 .
Concerning the Series Trustee
          Neither the Original Trustee nor the Series Trustee assumes any duties, responsibilities or liabilities by reason of this Supplemental Indenture other than as set forth in the Base Indenture and in this Supplemental Indenture, in carrying out its responsibilities hereunder, each shall have all of the rights, powers, privileges, protections, duties and immunities which it possesses under the Base Indenture. The Original Trustee and the Series Trustee shall not constitute co-trustees of the same trust, and each of the Original Trustee and the Series Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts under the Indenture separate and apart from any trust or trusts under the Indenture administered by the other trustee. The Original Trustee shall have no liability for any acts or omissions of the Series Trustee and the Series Trustee shall have no liability for any acts or omissions of the Original Trustee.
          References in this Supplemental Indenture to sections of the Base Indenture that require or permit actions by the Original Trustee with respect to the Notes shall be deemed to require or permit actions only by the Series Trustee and the Original Trustee shall have no responsibility therefor.
 
          Section 4.01 .
Amendment to Section 8.1(f)
          For purposes of the Notes, and only with respect to the Notes, Section 8.1(f) of the Base Indenture is hereby amended to read as follows:
     "(f) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series outstanding or, if other than the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture (or a successor to such Person pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture) (for purposes of this Section 8.1(f), herein called the "Original Trustee"), to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a Trustee, at the election of the Issuer, with respect to other Securities of any series to be issued thereafter pursuant to this Indenture (a "Series Trustee"), and if not the Series Trustee, to evidence the identity of each registrar, paying agent or Authenticating Agent with respect to such Securities, and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 6.12, it being understood that, anything contained herein or in any Board Resolution, Officer's Certificate or supplemental indenture to the contrary notwithstanding, that (i) nothing herein shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust, (ii) each such Trustee shall be a trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee, (iii) the Series Trustee shall have all the rights, powers, trusts, duties and obligations of the Original Trustee with respect to, and only with respect to, such Securities, (iv) the Original Trustee shall have no rights, powers, trusts, duties or obligations with respect to such Securities, (v) no Trustee hereunder shall have any liability for any acts or omissions of any other Trustee hereunder and (vi) no appointment of a Series Trustee shall become effective until the acceptance of the appointment by the Series Trustee in writing; and"
          Section 4.02 .
Amendment to Section 9.1(a)
          For purposes of the Notes, and only with respect to the Notes, Section 9.1(a) of the Base Indenture is hereby amended to read as follows:
     "(a) either the Issuer shall be the continuing corporation, or the successor corporation or Person (if other than the Issuer) formed by such consolidation or into which the Issuer is merged or to which the properties and assets of the Issuer substantially as an entirety are transferred or leased is a corporation, limited liability company or limited partnership organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state of the United States or the District of Columbia, and if such entity is not a corporation, a co-obligor of the Securities is a corporation organized or existing under any such laws, and such successor corporation or Person, including such co-obligor, if any, shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, all the obligations of the Issuer under the Securities and this Indenture; and"
 
          Section 4.03 .
Trust Indenture Act Controls
          If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision that is required or deemed to be included in this Supplemental Indenture by the Trust Indenture Act, the required or deemed provision shall control.
          Section 4.04 .
Notices
          Any notice or communication shall be in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail or sent by facsimile (with a hard copy delivered in person or by mail promptly thereafter) and addressed as follows:
if to the Issuer:
McKesson Corporation McKesson Plaza One Post Street San Francisco, CA 94104 Attention: General Counsel Facsimile: (415) 983-8826
if to the Series Trustee:
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association 707 Wilshire Boulevard, 17 Floor Los Angeles, CA 90017 Attn: Corporate Trust Department Facsimile: (213) 614-3355
th
The Issuer or the Series Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
          Section 4.05 .
Governing Law
          THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW.
          Section 4.06
No Personal Liability of Directors, etc.
          None of the Issuer's directors, officers, employees, incorporators or stockholders, as such, shall have any liability for any of the Issuer's obligations under the Notes, the Indenture, or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes.
          Section 4.07 .
Successors
          All agreements of the Issuer in the Indenture and the Notes shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Series Trustee in the Indenture shall bind its successors.
 
          Section 4.08 .
Multiple Originals
          The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Supplemental Indenture.
          Section 4.09 .
Table of Contents; Headings
          The table of contents and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Supplemental Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not intended to be considered a part hereof and shall not modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
          Section 4.10 .
Trustees Not Responsible for Recitals
          The recitals contained herein shall be taken as statements of the Issuer, and the Original Trustee and the Series Trustee do not assume any responsibility for their correctness. The Original Trustee and the Series Trustee make no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture, except that the Original Trustee and the Series Trustee each represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture and perform its obligations hereunder.
          Section 4.11 .
Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation
          The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
ANNEX A
               Pursuant to Section 2.3 of the Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 28, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Issuer, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.) (the "Original Trustee") and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Series Trustee"), the terms of a series of securities to be issued pursuant to the Indenture are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Annex A shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture.
 
ANNEX A-1
THIS NOTE IS A REGISTERED GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. TRANSFERS OF THIS REGISTERED GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE.
          McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Issuer," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of [__________] Dollars ($[__________]) on March 1, 2016 and to pay interest on said principal sum from February 28, 2011, or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date") of each year commencing on September 1, 2011, at the rate of 3.25% per annum until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable.
          The amount of interest payable on any Interest Payment Date shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which the principal or interest payable on this Note is not a Business Day, then payment of principal or interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay). The interest installment so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture (referred to on the reverse hereof) be paid to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the record date for such interest installment, which shall be the close of business on the immediately preceding February 15 and August 15 prior to such Interest Payment Date, as applicable. Any such interest installment not punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered holders on such record date and may be paid to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date (which shall be not less than five Business Days prior to the date of payment of such defaulted interest), notice whereof shall be given by mail by or on behalf of the Issuer to the registered holders of Notes not less than 15 days preceding such subsequent record date, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on this Note shall be payable at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose in any coin or currency of the United States of
 
America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Issuer by check mailed to the person entitled thereto at such address as shall appear in the registry books of the Issuer; , that for so long as this Note is represented by a Registered Global Security, payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on this Note may be made by wire transfer to the account of the Depositary or its nominee.
provided, however,
provided, further
          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Series Trustee (as defined below) under the Indenture (as defined below), by the manual signature of one of its authorized signatories, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
          Capitalized terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
          The provisions of this Note are continued on the reverse side hereof and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be duly executed, manually or in facsimile, and an imprint or facsimile of its corporate seal to be imprinted hereon.
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION      as Series Trustee
 
          This Note is one of a duly authorized series of securities (the "Securities") of the Issuer designated as its 3.25% Notes due March 1, 2016 (the "Notes"). The Securities are all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), duly executed and delivered between the Issuer and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.), a national banking association (the "Original Trustee," which term includes any successor Trustee with respect to the Securities under the Base Indenture), as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 28, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), duly executed and delivered between the Issuer, the Original Trustee and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee with respect to the Notes (the "Series Trustee"), to which the Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights thereunder of the Issuer, the Original Trustee, the Series Trustee and the holders of the Securities and the terms upon which the Notes are to be authenticated and delivered. The terms of individual series of Securities may vary with respect to interest rate or interest rate formulas, issue dates, maturity, redemption, repayment, currency of payment and otherwise.
          The Notes are issuable only as Registered Securities in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes as requested by the holder surrendering the same.
          Except as set forth below, this Note is not redeemable and is not entitled to the benefit of a sinking fund or any analogous provision.
          The Notes may be redeemed, in whole, at any time, or in part, from time to time, at the option of the Issuer, for cash, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of their principal amount and (ii) an amount, as determined by the Quotation Agent, equal to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption; provided that the principal amount of any Note remaining outstanding after a redemption in part shall be $2,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on the Notes that are due and payable on interest payment dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the interest payment date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant record date. Holders of the Notes will receive notice thereof at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. Unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Series Trustee by a method the Series Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate.
          "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
          "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Series Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
 
          "Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Issuer.
          "Reference Treasury Dealer" means (i) J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Issuer shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Issuer.
          "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Series Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Series Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
          "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price on such redemption date.
          If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Issuer has previously exercised its right to redeem the Notes in whole as described above, holders of the Notes will have the right to require the Issuer to repurchase all or any part (in integral multiples of $1,000 original principal amount) of their Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer"); provided that the principal amount of any Note remaining outstanding after a repurchase in part shall be $2,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000. In the Change of Control Offer, the Issuer will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the then outstanding aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, to, but not including, the date of repurchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Issuer will be required to mail a notice to holders of the Notes describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures described herein and in such notice. The Issuer must comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions herein, the Issuer will be required to comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions herein by virtue of such conflicts.
          The paying agent will promptly mail to each holder of the Notes properly tendered the repurchase price for such Notes, and the Series Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unrepurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; provided, that each new Note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Issuer will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for a Change of Control Offer made by the Issuer and the third party repurchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Issuer will not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an event of
 
default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
          On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer will be required, to the extent lawful, to (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; (ii) deposit with the paying agent no later than 11:00 a.m. New York City time an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Series Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officer's Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased.
          "Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies (as defined below) on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies).
          "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any Person other than the Issuer or one of its Subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any Person becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Issuer's voting stock; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Issuer's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to result in a Change of Control if (i) the Issuer becomes a wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii) the holders of the voting stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuer's voting stock immediately prior to that transaction.
          "Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
          "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Issuer who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of original issue of this Security; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Issuer's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
          "Fitch" means Fitch Inc., a subsidiary of Fimalac, S.A.
          "Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
          "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
          "Person" has the meaning set forth in the Indenture and includes a "person" as used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
          "Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the notes or fails to make a rating of the notes publicly available for reasons outside of the
 
Issuer's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Issuer as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
          "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
          If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
          The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer and the Original Trustee or the Series Trustee, as applicable, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Securities or Subordinated Securities, as the case may be, of all series issued under such Indenture then outstanding and affected (each voting as one class), to add any provisions to, or change in any manner, eliminate or waive any of the provisions of, such Indenture or modify in any manner the rights of the holders of the Securities of each series or Coupons so affected; that the Issuer and the Original Trustee or the Series Trustee, as applicable, may not, without the consent of the holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, (i) extend the final maturity of the principal of any Security or reduce the principal amount thereof or premium thereon, if any, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce any amount payable on redemption thereof or change the currency in which the principal thereof (other than as otherwise may be provided with respect to such series), premium, if any, or interest thereon is payable or reduce the amount of the principal of any Original Issue Discount Security that is payable upon acceleration or provable in bankruptcy, or in the case of Subordinated Securities of any series, modify any of the subordination provisions or the definition of "Senior Indebtedness" relating to such series in a manner adverse to the holders of such Subordinated Securities, or alter certain provisions of the Indenture relating to Securities not denominated in Dollars or the Judgment Currency of such Securities or impair or affect the right of any Securityholder to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment thereof when due or, if the Securities provide therefor, any right of repayment at the option of the Securityholder or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage in principal amount of Securities of any series issued under the Indenture, the consent of the holders of which is required for any such modification. It is also provided in the Indenture that, with respect to certain defaults or Events of Default regarding the Securities of any series, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount Outstanding of the Securities of each such series, each such series voting as a separate class (or, of all Securities, as the case may be voting as a single class) may under certain circumstances waive all defaults with respect to each such series (or with respect to all the Securities, as the case may be) and rescind and annul a declaration of default and its consequences, but no such waiver or rescission and annulment shall extend to or affect any subsequent default or shall impair any right consequent thereto. The preceding sentence shall not, however, apply to a default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any of the Securities.
provided
          No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
          As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered on the registry books of the Issuer, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained by the Issuer for such purpose in Minneapolis, Minnesota, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Issuer and the Series Trustee duly executed by, the holder hereof or by its attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
          No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Issuer may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith.
          Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Issuer, the Series Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Series Trustee may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Issuer, the Series Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
          THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW.
 
 
Annex B
            Pursuant to Section 2.3 of the Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 28, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Issuer, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.) (the "Original Trustee") and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Series Trustee"), the terms of a series of securities to be issued pursuant to the Indenture are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Annex B shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture.
 
Annex B-1
THIS NOTE IS A REGISTERED GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. TRANSFERS OF THIS REGISTERED GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE.
          McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Issuer," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of [__________] Dollars ($[__________]) on March 1, 2021 and to pay interest on said principal sum from February 28, 2011, or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date") of each year commencing on September 1, 2011, at the rate of 4.75% per annum until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable.
          The amount of interest payable on any Interest Payment Date shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which the principal or interest payable on this Note is not a Business Day, then payment of principal or interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay). The interest installment so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture (referred to on the reverse hereof) be paid to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the record date for such interest installment, which shall be the close of business on the immediately preceding February 15 and August 15 prior to such Interest Payment Date, as applicable. Any such interest installment not punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered holders on such record date and may be paid to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date (which shall be not less than five Business Days prior to the date of payment of such defaulted interest), notice whereof shall be given by mail by or on behalf of the Issuer to the registered holders of Notes not less than 15 days preceding such subsequent record
 
date, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on this Note shall be payable at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose in any coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Issuer by check mailed to the person entitled thereto at such address as shall appear in the registry books of the Issuer; , that for so long as this Note is represented by a Registered Global Security, payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on this Note may be made by wire transfer to the account of the Depositary or its nominee.
provided, however,
provided, further
          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Series Trustee (as defined below) under the Indenture (as defined below), by the manual signature of one of its authorized signatories, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
          Capitalized terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
          The provisions of this Note are continued on the reverse side hereof and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be duly executed, manually or in facsimile, and an imprint or facsimile of its corporate seal to be imprinted hereon.
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
          This Note is one of a duly authorized series of securities (the "Securities") of the Issuer designated as its 4.75% Notes due March 1, 2021 (the "Notes"). The Securities are all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), duly executed and delivered between the Issuer and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.), a national banking association (the "Original Trustee," which term includes any successor Trustee with respect to the Securities under the Base Indenture), as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 28, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), duly executed and delivered between the Issuer, the Original Trustee and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee with respect to the Notes (the "Series Trustee"), to which the Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights thereunder of the Issuer, the Original Trustee, the Series Trustee and the holders of the Securities and the terms upon which the Notes are to be authenticated and delivered. The terms of individual series of Securities may vary with respect to interest rate or interest rate formulas, issue dates, maturity, redemption, repayment, currency of payment and otherwise.
          The Notes are issuable only as Registered Securities in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes as requested by the holder surrendering the same.
          Except as set forth below, this Note is not redeemable and is not entitled to the benefit of a sinking fund or any analogous provision.
          The Notes may be redeemed, in whole, at any time, or in part, from time to time, at the option of the Issuer, for cash, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of their principal amount and, unless the Notes are redeemed on or after December 1, 2020, (ii) an amount, as determined by the Quotation Agent, equal to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption; provided that the principal amount of any Note remaining outstanding after a redemption in part shall be $2,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on the Notes that are due and payable on interest payment dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the interest payment date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant record date. Holders of the Notes will receive notice thereof at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. Unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Series Trustee by a method the Series Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate.
          "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
          "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Series Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
 
          "Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Issuer.
          "Reference Treasury Dealer" means (i) J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Issuer shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Issuer.
          "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Series Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Series Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
          "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price on such redemption date.
          If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Issuer has previously exercised its right to redeem the Notes in whole as described above, holders of the Notes will have the right to require the Issuer to repurchase all or any part (in integral multiples of $1,000 original principal amount) of their Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer"); provided that the principal amount of any Note remaining outstanding after a repurchase in part shall be $2,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000. In the Change of Control Offer, the Issuer will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the then outstanding aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, to, but not including, the date of repurchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Issuer will be required to mail a notice to holders of the Notes describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures described herein and in such notice. The Issuer must comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions herein, the Issuer will be required to comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions herein by virtue of such conflicts.
          The paying agent will promptly mail to each holder of the Notes properly tendered the repurchase price for such Notes, and the Series Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unrepurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; provided, that each new Note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Issuer will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for a Change of Control Offer made by the Issuer and the third party repurchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Issuer will not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an event of
 
default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
          On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer will be required, to the extent lawful, to (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; (ii) deposit with the paying agent no later than 11:00 a.m. New York City time an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Series Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officer's Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased.
          "Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies (as defined below) on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies).
          "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any Person other than the Issuer or one of its Subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any Person becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Issuer's voting stock; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Issuer's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to result in a Change of Control if (i) the Issuer becomes a wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii) the holders of the voting stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuer's voting stock immediately prior to that transaction.
          "Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
          "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Issuer who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of original issue of this Security; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Issuer's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
          "Fitch" means Fitch Inc., a subsidiary of Fimalac, S.A.
          "Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
          "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
          "Person" has the meaning set forth in the Indenture and includes a "person" as used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
          "Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the notes or fails to make a rating of the notes publicly available for reasons outside of the
 
Issuer's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Issuer as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
          "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
          If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
          The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer and the Original Trustee or the Series Trustee, as applicable, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Securities or Subordinated Securities, as the case may be, of all series issued under such Indenture then outstanding and affected (each voting as one class), to add any provisions to, or change in any manner, eliminate or waive any of the provisions of, such Indenture or modify in any manner the rights of the holders of the Securities of each series or Coupons so affected; that the Issuer and the Original Trustee or the Series Trustee, as applicable, may not, without the consent of the holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, (i) extend the final maturity of the principal of any Security or reduce the principal amount thereof or premium thereon, if any, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce any amount payable on redemption thereof or change the currency in which the principal thereof (other than as otherwise may be provided with respect to such series), premium, if any, or interest thereon is payable or reduce the amount of the principal of any Original Issue Discount Security that is payable upon acceleration or provable in bankruptcy, or in the case of Subordinated Securities of any series, modify any of the subordination provisions or the definition of "Senior Indebtedness" relating to such series in a manner adverse to the holders of such Subordinated Securities, or alter certain provisions of the Indenture relating to Securities not denominated in Dollars or the Judgment Currency of such Securities or impair or affect the right of any Securityholder to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment thereof when due or, if the Securities provide therefor, any right of repayment at the option of the Securityholder or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage in principal amount of Securities of any series issued under the Indenture, the consent of the holders of which is required for any such modification. It is also provided in the Indenture that, with respect to certain defaults or Events of Default regarding the Securities of any series, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount Outstanding of the Securities of each such series, each such series voting as a separate class (or, of all Securities, as the case may be voting as a single class) may under certain circumstances waive all defaults with respect to each such series (or with respect to all the Securities, as the case may be) and rescind and annul a declaration of default and its consequences, but no such waiver or rescission and annulment shall extend to or affect any subsequent default or shall impair any right consequent thereto. The preceding sentence shall not, however, apply to a default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any of the Securities.
provided
          No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
          As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered on the registry books of the Issuer, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained by the Issuer for such purpose in Minneapolis, Minnesota, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Issuer and the Series Trustee duly executed by, the holder hereof or by its attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
          No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Issuer may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith.
          Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Issuer, the Series Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Series Trustee may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Issuer, the Series Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
          THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW.
 
 
Annex C
            Pursuant to Section 2.3 of the Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 28, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Issuer, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.) (the "Original Trustee") and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Series Trustee"), the terms of a series of securities to be issued pursuant to the Indenture are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Annex C shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture.
 
Annex C-1
THIS NOTE IS A REGISTERED GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. TRANSFERS OF THIS REGISTERED GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE.
          McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Issuer," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of Five Hundred Million Dollars ($500,000,000) on March 1, 2041 and to pay interest on said principal sum from February 28, 2011, or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date") of each year commencing on September 1, 2011, at the rate of 6.00% per annum until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable.
          The amount of interest payable on any Interest Payment Date shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which the principal or interest payable on this Note is not a Business Day, then payment of principal or interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay). The interest installment so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture (referred to on the reverse hereof) be paid to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the record date for such interest installment, which shall be the close of business on the immediately preceding February 15 and August 15 prior to such Interest Payment Date, as applicable. Any such interest installment not punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered holders on such record date and may be paid to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date (which shall be not less than five Business Days prior to the date of payment of such defaulted interest), notice whereof shall be given by mail by or on behalf of the Issuer to the registered holders of Notes not less than 15 days preceding such subsequent record
 
date, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on this Note shall be payable at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose in any coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Issuer by check mailed to the person entitled thereto at such address as shall appear in the registry books of the Issuer; , that for so long as this Note is represented by a Registered Global Security, payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on this Note may be made by wire transfer to the account of the Depositary or its nominee.
provided, however,
provided, further
          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Series Trustee (as defined below) under the Indenture (as defined below), by the manual signature of one of its authorized signatories, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
          Capitalized terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
          The provisions of this Note are continued on the reverse side hereof and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be duly executed, manually or in facsimile, and an imprint or facsimile of its corporate seal to be imprinted hereon.
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
          This Note is one of a duly authorized series of securities (the "Securities") of the Issuer designated as its 6.00% Notes due March 1, 2041 (the "Notes"). The Securities are all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), duly executed and delivered between the Issuer and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.), a national banking association (the "Original Trustee," which term includes any successor Trustee with respect to the Securities under the Base Indenture), as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 28, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), duly executed and delivered between the Issuer, the Original Trustee and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee with respect to the Notes (the "Series Trustee"), to which the Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights thereunder of the Issuer, the Original Trustee, the Series Trustee and the holders of the Securities and the terms upon which the Notes are to be authenticated and delivered. The terms of individual series of Securities may vary with respect to interest rate or interest rate formulas, issue dates, maturity, redemption, repayment, currency of payment and otherwise.
          The Notes are issuable only as Registered Securities in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes as requested by the holder surrendering the same.
          Except as set forth below, this Note is not redeemable and is not entitled to the benefit of a sinking fund or any analogous provision.
          The Notes may be redeemed, in whole, at any time, or in part, from time to time, at the option of the Issuer, for cash, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of their principal amount and, unless the Notes are redeemed on or after September 1, 2040, (ii) an amount, as determined by the Quotation Agent, equal to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 25 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption; provided that the principal amount of any Note remaining outstanding after a redemption in part shall be $2,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on the Notes that are due and payable on interest payment dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the interest payment date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant record date. Holders of the Notes will receive notice thereof at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. Unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Series Trustee by a method the Series Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate.
          "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
          "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Series Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
 
          "Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Issuer.
          "Reference Treasury Dealer" means (i) J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Issuer shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Issuer.
          "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Series Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Series Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
          "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price on such redemption date.
          If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Issuer has previously exercised its right to redeem the Notes in whole as described above, holders of the Notes will have the right to require the Issuer to repurchase all or any part (in integral multiples of $1,000 original principal amount) of their Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer"); provided that the principal amount of any Note remaining outstanding after a repurchase in part shall be $2,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000. In the Change of Control Offer, the Issuer will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the then outstanding aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, to, but not including, the date of repurchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Issuer will be required to mail a notice to holders of the Notes describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures described herein and in such notice. The Issuer must comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions herein, the Issuer will be required to comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions herein by virtue of such conflicts.
          The paying agent will promptly mail to each holder of the Notes properly tendered the repurchase price for such Notes, and the Series Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unrepurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; provided, that each new Note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 thereafter.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Issuer will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for a Change of Control Offer made by the Issuer and the third party repurchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Issuer will not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an event of
 
default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
          On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer will be required, to the extent lawful, to (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; (ii) deposit with the paying agent no later than 11:00 a.m. New York City time an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Series Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officer's Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased.
          "Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies (as defined below) on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies).
          "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any Person other than the Issuer or one of its Subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any Person becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Issuer's voting stock; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Issuer's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to result in a Change of Control if (i) the Issuer becomes a wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii) the holders of the voting stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuer's voting stock immediately prior to that transaction.
          "Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
          "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Issuer who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of original issue of this Security; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Issuer's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
          "Fitch" means Fitch Inc., a subsidiary of Fimalac, S.A.
          "Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
          "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
          "Person" has the meaning set forth in the Indenture and includes a "person" as used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
          "Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the notes or fails to make a rating of the notes publicly available for reasons outside of the
 
Issuer's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Issuer as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
          "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
          If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
          The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer and the Original Trustee or the Series Trustee, as applicable, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Securities or Subordinated Securities, as the case may be, of all series issued under such Indenture then outstanding and affected (each voting as one class), to add any provisions to, or change in any manner, eliminate or waive any of the provisions of, such Indenture or modify in any manner the rights of the holders of the Securities of each series or Coupons so affected; that the Issuer and the Original Trustee or the Series Trustee, as applicable, may not, without the consent of the holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, (i) extend the final maturity of the principal of any Security or reduce the principal amount thereof or premium thereon, if any, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce any amount payable on redemption thereof or change the currency in which the principal thereof (other than as otherwise may be provided with respect to such series), premium, if any, or interest thereon is payable or reduce the amount of the principal of any Original Issue Discount Security that is payable upon acceleration or provable in bankruptcy, or in the case of Subordinated Securities of any series, modify any of the subordination provisions or the definition of "Senior Indebtedness" relating to such series in a manner adverse to the holders of such Subordinated Securities, or alter certain provisions of the Indenture relating to Securities not denominated in Dollars or the Judgment Currency of such Securities or impair or affect the right of any Securityholder to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment thereof when due or, if the Securities provide therefor, any right of repayment at the option of the Securityholder or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage in principal amount of Securities of any series issued under the Indenture, the consent of the holders of which is required for any such modification. It is also provided in the Indenture that, with respect to certain defaults or Events of Default regarding the Securities of any series, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount Outstanding of the Securities of each such series, each such series voting as a separate class (or, of all Securities, as the case may be voting as a single class) may under certain circumstances waive all defaults with respect to each such series (or with respect to all the Securities, as the case may be) and rescind and annul a declaration of default and its consequences, but no such waiver or rescission and annulment shall extend to or affect any subsequent default or shall impair any right consequent thereto. The preceding sentence shall not, however, apply to a default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any of the Securities.
provided
          No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
          As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered on the registry books of the Issuer, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained by the Issuer for such purpose in Minneapolis, Minnesota, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Issuer and the Series Trustee duly executed by, the holder hereof or by its attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
          No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Issuer may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith.
          Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Issuer, the Series Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Series Trustee may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Issuer, the Series Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
          THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW.
 

Exhibit 5.1
February 28, 2011
McKesson Corporation McKesson Plaza, One Post Street San Francisco, California 94104
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          We have acted as special counsel to McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the public offering of $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.25% Notes due March 1, 2016, $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.75% Notes due March 1, 2021, and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.00% Notes due March 1, 2041 (collectively, the "Securities"), issuable under the Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 28, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), among the Company, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.) and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee for the Securities (the "Series Trustee"). On February 23, 2011, the Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement"), with J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters"), relating to the sale by the Company to the Underwriters of the Securities.
          This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").
          In rendering the opinions set forth herein, we have examined and relied on originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of:
 
McKesson Corporation February 28, 2011 Page 2
          We have also examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such records of the Company and such agreements, certificates and receipts of public officials, certificates of officers or other representatives of the Company and others, and such other documents as we have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the opinions set forth below.
          In our examination, we have assumed the legal capacity of all natural persons, the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as facsimile, electronic, certified or photostatic copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such copies. In making our examination of executed documents, we have assumed that the parties thereto, other than the Company, had the power, corporate or other, to enter into and perform all obligations thereunder and have also assumed the due authorization by all requisite action,
 
McKesson Corporation February 28, 2011 Page 3
corporate or other, the execution and delivery by such parties of such documents, and the validity and binding effect thereof on such parties. We have also assumed that the execution and delivery by the Company of the Indenture and the Securities, as applicable, and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder do not and will not violate, conflict with or constitute a default under (i) any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its properties is subject, (ii) any law, rule, or regulation to which the Company or any of its properties is subject, (iii) any judicial or regulatory order or decree of any governmental authority or (iv) any consent, approval, license, authorization or validation of, or filing, recording or registration with any governmental authority. As to any facts material to the opinions expressed herein that we did not independently establish or verify, we have relied upon statements and representations of officers and other representatives of the Company and others and of public officials.
          The opinions set forth below are subject to the following further qualifications, assumptions and limitations:
     (a) the validity or enforcement of any agreements or instruments may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law);
     (b) except to the extent expressly stated in the opinions contained herein with respect to the Company, we do not express any opinion with respect to the effect on the opinions stated herein of (i) the compliance or non-compliance of any party to the Indenture with any laws, rules or regulations applicable to such party or (ii) the legal status or legal capacity of any such party to the Indenture;
     (c) except to the extent expressly stated in the opinions contained herein with respect to the Company, we do not express any opinion with respect to any law, rule or regulation that is applicable to any party to the Indenture or the transactions contemplated thereby solely because such law, rule or regulation is part of a regulatory regime applicable to any such party or any of its affiliates as a result of the specific assets or business operations of such party or such affiliates;
     (d) we do not express any opinion as to the applicability or effect of any fraudulent transfer, preference or similar law on each of the Securities or any of the transactions contemplated thereby; and
     (e) to the extent any opinion relates to the enforceability of the choice of New York law and choice of New York forum provisions of any agreement or instrument, our opinions are rendered in reliance upon N.Y. Gen. Oblig. Law 5-1401, 5-1402 (McKinney 2001) and N.Y. C.P.L.R. 327(b) (McKinney 2001) and are subject to the qualification that such enforceability may be limited by public policy considerations of any jurisdiction.
          We do not express any opinion as to any laws other than Delaware corporate law and those laws, rules and regulations of the State of New York that, in our experience, are normally applicable to transactions of the type contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture, the Securities and, to the extent that judicial or regulatory orders or decrees or consents, approvals, licenses, authorizations, validations, filings, recordings or registrations with governmental authorities are relevant, to those required under such laws (all of the foregoing being referred to as "Opined on Law"). We do not express any opinion with respect to the law of any jurisdiction other than Opined on Law or as to the effect of any
 
McKesson Corporation February 28, 2011 Page 4
such non-Opined on Law on the opinions herein. Insofar as the opinions expressed herein relate to matters governed by laws other than those set forth in the preceding sentence, we have assumed, without having made any independent investigation, that such laws do not affect any of the opinions set forth herein. The opinions expressed herein are based on laws in effect on the date hereof, which laws are subject to change with possible retroactive effect.
          Based upon the foregoing and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that the Securities have been duly authorized and executed by the Company, and when duly authenticated by the Series Trustee and issued and delivered by the Company against payment therefor in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture, the Securities will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
          We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, being filed on the date hereof, and incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement. We hereby consent to the reference to our firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the prospectus supplement dated February 23, 2011 and filed with the Commission. In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the Rules and Regulations. This opinion is expressed as of the date hereof unless otherwise expressly stated, and we disclaim any undertaking to advise you of any subsequent changes in the facts stated or assumed herein or of any subsequent changes in applicable law.


