FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20110503161945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On May 3, 2011, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), but shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 3, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2011 were $28.9 billion, up 8% compared to $26.6 billion a year ago. Fourth-quarter earnings were $1.62 per diluted share, up 29% compared to $1.26 per diluted share a year ago. Fourth-quarter earnings included four cents per diluted share of US Oncology acquisition-related expenses.
SAN FRANCISCO, May 3, 2011 
     For the fiscal year, McKesson had revenues of $112.1 billion and earnings per diluted share of $4.57. Full-year earnings per diluted share was impacted by pre-tax Average Wholesale Price ("AWP") litigation charges in the second and third quarters totaling $213 million ($149 million after-tax or 57 cents per diluted share). Excluding the AWP litigation charges, earnings per diluted share from continuing operations was $4.86, which included 14 cents per diluted share of US Oncology acquisition-related expenses.
 
     "Our fourth-quarter results wrapped up another solid full-year financial performance, driven by strong execution in Distribution Solutions. I'm pleased that we exceeded our initial expectations for both earnings and cash flow," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer.
     For the year, McKesson generated cash from operations of $2.3 billion, and ended the year with cash and cash equivalents of $3.6 billion and a gross debt-to-capital ratio of 35.7%. During the year, McKesson completed the $2.16 billion acquisition of US Oncology, repurchased $2.1 billion of common stock, including $500 million in the fourth quarter, paid $171 million in dividends, and had internal investments of $388 million.
     At its most recent meeting, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $1 billion of common stock, bringing the total authorization to approximately $1.5 billion, and approved a policy increasing the quarterly dividend from 18 cents to 20 cents per share.
     "Our strong balance sheet and cash flow provide us with opportunities to deploy capital to optimize the performance of our existing portfolio and lay the foundation for future growth," Hammergren commented. "For example, our acquisition of US Oncology solidifies our strong position within oncology and is an example of our strategy to expand our product and service offering in high-growth areas of healthcare. We plan to continue our portfolio approach to capital deployment with a mix of acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends, and internal investments."
Segment Results
     Distribution Solutions revenues were up 8% for the fourth quarter and 3% for the year. U.S. pharmaceutical distribution revenues were up 9% for the quarter, primarily reflecting market growth and the US Oncology acquisition. For the full year, U.S. pharmaceutical distribution revenues increased 3%, primarily reflecting market growth and new and expanded distribution agreements. For the year, we continued to see a shift of revenues to direct store delivery from sales to customers' warehouses.
 
     Canadian revenues, on a constant currency basis, were down 3% for the quarter primarily due to the impact of government imposed price restrictions on generic drugs. Including the favorable currency impact of 5%, Canadian revenues increased 2% for the quarter. For the full year, Canadian revenues grew 1% on a constant currency basis. Including the favorable currency impact of 7%, Canadian revenues grew 8% for the full year.
     Medical-Surgical distribution and services revenues were up 5% in the fourth quarter and 2% for the full year.
     In the fourth quarter, Distribution Solutions gross profit of $1.3 billion was up 10% compared to the fourth quarter a year ago. Full-year gross profit of $4.6 billion was up 8% from a year ago. Gross profit continues to benefit from sales of higher-margin products and services, including sales of OneStop Generics, which increased 25% in the fourth quarter.
     In the fourth quarter, Distribution Solutions operating profit was $612 million and the operating margin was 2.19%. For the full year, operating profit was $1.9 billion and the operating margin was 1.74%. Excluding the AWP litigation charges, full-year operating profit was $2.1 billion and the operating margin was 1.94%.
     "Distribution Solutions delivered excellent results that drove our overall corporate performance. We had a particularly strong contribution from our U.S. pharmaceutical distribution business, with steady levels of compensation from the broad array of services we offer to branded pharmaceutical manufacturers, and profit growth in generics due to the strength of our customer offering. The tremendous scale and efficiency of our distribution businesses, combined with our comprehensive value proposition, differentiates our offering and helps us establish and maintain long-standing customer relationships," said Hammergren.
     In Technology Solutions, revenues were up 7% for the quarter and 2% for the full year. Operating profit was $117 million for the fourth quarter and the operating margin was 13.36%. For the full year, operating profit was $301 million and the operating margin was 9.42%. Excluding the asset impairment charge in the second quarter, full-year operating profit was $373 million and the operating
 
margin was 11.67%. Operating margins for the fourth quarter and the full year were impacted by continued investment in the Horizon product line.
     "In our hospital business, we are deploying the solutions our customers need and helping them achieve broad adoption. We are pleased that our clinical systems were certified as planned, and that the most recent release of Horizon Clinicalsis generally available. Across the rest of our technology business, we have a broad solution set for our payer, pharmacy and physician customers, and we continue to benefit from the stable and recurring nature of these revenue streams," Hammergren said.
Fiscal Year 2012 Outlook
     "Looking ahead, we expect the trends that have contributed to our success will continue in Fiscal 2012. Therefore, McKesson expects to earn between $5.55 and $5.75 per diluted share for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012, excluding estimated US Oncology acquisition-related expenses of six cents per diluted share," Hammergren said.
Key Assumptions for Fiscal Year 2012 Outlook
     The Fiscal 2012 outlook is based on the following key assumptions and is also subject to the Risk Factors outlined below.
 
     Beginning with the first-quarter results in Fiscal 2012, in addition to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") earnings, the Company plans to separately report Adjusted Earnings, which is a non-GAAP measure defined as GAAP earnings from continuing operations excluding acquisition-related expenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, and AWP litigation reserve adjustments. We believe this presentation will provide useful information to investors in understanding our core operating performance. On this adjusted basis, McKesson expects Adjusted Earnings between $5.99 and $6.19 per diluted share for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012.
 
Risk Factors
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "will", "should", "seeks", "approximately", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The discussion of financial trends, strategy, plans or intentions may also include forward-looking statements. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties; however, the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: material adverse resolution of pending legal proceedings; changes in the U.S. healthcare industry and regulatory environment; changes in the Canadian healthcare industry and regulatory environment; competition; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by, or the loss of, a large customer or group purchasing organization; the loss of government contracts as a result of compliance or funding challenges; public health issues in the U.S. or abroad; implementation delay, malfunction or failure of internal information systems; the adequacy of insurance to cover property loss or liability claims; the company's failure to attract and retain customers for its software products and solutions due to integration and implementation challenges, or due to an inability to keep pace with technological advances; the company's proprietary products and services may not be adequately protected, and its products and solutions may be found to infringe on the rights of others; system errors or failure of our technology products and solutions to conform to specifications; disaster or other event causing interruption of customer access to data residing in our service centers; the delay or extension of our sales or implementation cycles for external software products; changes in circumstances that could impair our goodwill or intangible
 
assets; foreign currency fluctuations or disruptions to our foreign operations; new or revised tax legislation or challenges to our tax positions; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; general economic conditions, including changes in the financial markets that may affect the availability and cost of credit to the company, its customers or suppliers; and changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are first made. Except to the extent required by law, the company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
     . Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, which are located on the company's website.
A web cast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com\earningscall, live at 5 PM ET today and on replay afterwards
 
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation, currently ranked 14th on the FORTUNE 500, is a healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to making the business of healthcare run better. We partner with payers, hospitals, physician offices, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies and others across the spectrum of care to build healthier organizations that deliver better care to patients in every setting. McKesson helps its customers improve their financial, operational, and clinical performance with solutions that include pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management, healthcare information technology, and business and clinical services. For more information, visit .
http://www.mckesson.com
Contact: Ana Schrank, 415-983-7153 (Investors and Financial Media) Ana.Schrank@McKesson.com Kris Fortner, 415-983-8352 (General and Business Media) Kris.Fortner@McKesson.com
 
Schedule I
 
 
 
Schedule II
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


