FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20120727092759.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
(a)-(b) On July 25, 2012, the following seven items were voted on at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2012 Annual Meeting") of McKesson Corporation (the "Company"), and the stockholder votes on each such matter, as certified by the Inspector of Election, are set forth below.
. The Board of Directors' nominees for directors, as listed in the Company's definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting that was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on June 15, 2012 (the "Definitive Proxy Statement"), were each elected to serve a one-year term. The votes were as follows: 
Item 1
 
. The appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013 was ratified, having received the following votes: 
Item 2
 
. The proposal to approve, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's named executive officers was approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 3
 
. The stockholder-submitted proposal on action by written consent of stockholders was not approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 4
 
. The stockholder-submitted proposal on an independent board chairman was approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 5
 
. The stockholder-submitted proposal on significant executive stock retention until reaching normal retirement age was not approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 6
 
. The stockholder-submitted proposal on accelerated vesting of equity awards was not approved, having received the following votes: 
Item 7
 
Each of the items considered at the 2012 Annual Meeting is described in further detail in the Definitive Proxy Statement. No item other than the seven items addressed above and described in the Definitive Proxy Statement was submitted at the 2012 Annual Meeting for stockholder action.
 Under the Company's majority voting standard, the election of a nominee required that the nominee receive a majority of the votes cast (that is, the number of votes cast "for" each nominee had to exceed the number of votes cast "against" such nominee). Therefore, abstentions and broker non-votes were required to be disregarded and had no effect on the vote results.
 Approval of each proposal with this footnote designation required the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present, in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote on the proposal at the meeting. Therefore, abstentions, which represented shares present and entitled to vote, had the same effect as a vote against the proposal. Broker non-votes, if any, were required to be disregarded and had no effect on the vote results.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 27, 2012


