ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Our consolidated financial statements for all periods present the businesses of Agilent Technologies as a discontinued operation through the spin off date of June 2, 2000. Unless otherwise indicated, the following discussion relates to HPs continuing operations. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview The following is a summary of operating results at the HP consolidated level. This discussion is followed by a more detailed discussion of operating results by segment. Product category fluctuations highlighted at the consolidated level are more fully explained in the segment discussion. Net Revenue Net revenue declined 7% in fiscal 2001 to $45.2 billion, following growth of 15% in fiscal 2000. U.S. revenue in 2001 declined 13% to $18.8 billion, while international revenue in 2001 decreased 3% overall to $26.4 billion. The global economic downturn contributed significantly to the decline in both U.S. and international revenue in 2001. In fiscal 2000, U.S. revenue increased 14% and international revenue increased 16%, due largely to economic improvement in Asia. On a foreign currency adjusted basis, net revenue declined 3% year over year for HP as a whole in fiscal 2001, while net revenue increased 17% on a foreign currency adjusted basis in fiscal 2000. The majority of the foreign currency effect in both years was due to the weakening of the euro, partially offset by the strengthening of the Japanese yen in 2000. In fiscal 2001, net revenue for the Computing Systems business segment decreased 14% and declined 5% for the Imaging and Printing Systems segment. Net revenue for IT Services grew 6% in 2001. Of the overall 7% net revenue decline for fiscal 2001, on a weighted basis printer hardware represented 4 percentage points of the decline, while commercial PCs (desktop PCs and notebook PCs) and home PCs each accounted for approximately 1.5 percentage points of the decline. A decrease in UNIX(R) and PC servers revenue also contributed slightly to the year over year revenue decline. However, the decrease in server revenue was offset, for the most part, by revenue growth in printer supplies. The declines in the printer hardware and PC businesses were due primarily to decreases in volume as a result of the economic slowdown in fiscal 2001. A shift in sales mix into the sub $150 printer market also contributed to the decrease in printer hardware revenue. In addition, ongoing competitive pricing pressures affected revenue performance in many of our product categories, particularly for commercial and home PCs and printer hardware. On a segment basis, net revenue for Computing Systems increased 19% in fiscal 2000, while revenue for IT Services grew 13% and Imaging and Printing Systems grew 10%. On a weighted basis, home PCs and printer supplies each accounted for 4 percentage points of the overall 15% increase, while commercial PCs represented 2 percentage points of growth. The remainder of the increase in fiscal 2000 revenue consisted of growth across many product categories including imaging, UNIX(R) and PC servers, customer support services, outsourcing and our technology financing business. Growth in the PC business was almost entirely attributable to strong unit sales, particularly in home and notebook PCs, but this growth was moderated by a competitive pricing environment. The unit growth in home and notebook PCs was driven by favorable acceptance of new products, including our newly introduced retail notebook line. Increased volume in our printer supplies business was fueled by continued expansion of the printer hardware installed base. 17 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Gross margin, operating expenses and earnings as a percentage of net revenue were as follows for the years ended October 31: 2001 2000 1999 Gross margin......................................................... 26.0% 28.3% 29.5% Research and development............................................. 5.9% 5.4% 5.8% Selling, general and administrative.................................. 16.1% 14.5% 14.7% Restructuring charges................................................ 0.8% 0.2% Earnings from operations............................................. 3.2% 8.2% 9.0% Earnings from continuing operations before extraordinary item, cumulative effect of change in accounting principle and taxes...... 1.6% 9.5% 9.9% Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 26.0% in fiscal 2001, compared to 28.3% in fiscal 2000 and 29.5% in fiscal 1999. The 2.3 percentage point decrease in the gross margin ratio in fiscal 2001 resulted from declines across all of HPs business segments, while the 1.2 percentage point decline in fiscal 2000 was mainly attributable to a decrease in the Computing Systems segment. Overall, in fiscal 2001, gross margins were negatively impacted by a significant decline in sales volumes across many product categories resulting from the global economic downturn and increased inventory related charges in response to this downturn. The higher inventory related charges, which represented 0.4 percentage points of the gross margin decline, mainly impacted our Inkjet, imaging and personal appliances businesses. We perform a detailed assessment of inventory at each balance sheet date, which includes a review of, among other factors, demand requirements, product lifecycle and product development plans, and quality issues. Based on this analysis, we record adjustments, when appropriate, to reflect inventory at net realizable value. Of the 2.3 percentage point decline in gross margin for fiscal 2001, on a weighted basis printer hardware and imaging each accounted for one percentage point of the decline. In addition, gross margins for UNIX(R) and PC servers and technology financing decreased slightly in fiscal 2001. These declines were partially offset by an increase of one percentage point for printer supplies on a weighted basis. Printer hardware and imaging were unfavorably impacted by a continuing shift to lower priced products in response to customer demand, in addition to the inventory writedowns discussed above. Of the 1.2 percentage point decline in gross margin for fiscal 2000, home PCs and commercial PCs were the main drivers, although supplies experienced a gross margin improvement. Gross margins in our PC business were unfavorably impacted by higher memory costs, as well as a mix shift to lower margin products and ongoing competitive pricing pressures. Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expense as a percentage of net revenue was 5.9% in fiscal 2001, compared to 5.4% in fiscal 2000 and 5.8% in fiscal 1999. Research and development expense in dollars grew 1% in fiscal 2001 and 8% in fiscal 2000. After adjusting for $35 million of in process research and development write offs related to acquisitions recorded in fiscal 2001, research and development expense for 2001 was flat compared to fiscal 2000. Research and development expense grew 10% in the Computing Systems segment reflecting investments related to server, software and storage products. However, declines in research and development spending of 8% in IT Services and 3% in Imaging and Printing Systems fully offset this growth during the year as a result of focused spending in key areas and expense reductions in less strategic programs. In addition, company wide actions taken by management throughout the year to control expenses, including the restructuring 18 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) actions discussed below, moderated research and development expense growth in fiscal 2001. In fiscal 2000, the growth in research and development expense was due primarily to an increase in spending on the design and development of new technologies in both the Computing Systems and Imaging and Printing Systems segments. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net revenue was 16.1% in fiscal 2001, compared to 14.5% in fiscal 2000 and 14.7% in fiscal 1999. Selling, general and administrative expense in dollars increased 3% in fiscal 2001 and 13% in fiscal 2000. The increase in selling, general and administrative expense for fiscal 2001 resulted substantially from a $172 million increase in bad debt reserves and write offs in our financing portfolio due to weakened economic conditions. We evaluate the collectibility of our trade and financing receivables based on a combination of factors. When we become aware of a specific customers inability to meet its financial obligations to us, such as in the case of bankruptcy filings or deterioration in the customers operating results or financial position, we record a specific reserve for bad debt to reduce the related receivable to the amount we reasonably believe is collectible. We also record reserves for bad debt for all other customers based on a variety of factors including the length of time the receivables are past due and historical experience. If circumstances related to specific customers change, our estimates of the recoverability of receivables could be further reduced. Overall, company wide actions taken by management throughout the year to control expenses, including the restructuring actions discussed below, moderated selling, general and administrative expense growth in fiscal 2001. The growth in selling, general and administrative expense in fiscal 2000 was attributable to increased selling costs to support planned business expansion and increased marketing expenses from the introduction of new products and to support our e services strategy and corporate branding initiative. Restructuring Charges In fiscal 2001, management approved restructuring actions to respond to the global economic downturn and to improve our cost structure by streamlining operations and prioritizing resources in strategic areas of our business. We recorded a restructuring charge of $384 million to reflect these actions. This charge consisted of severance and other employee benefits related to the planned termination of approximately 7,500 employees worldwide, across many regions, business functions, and job classes, as well as costs related to the consolidation of excess facilities. Included as an offset to this charge was $38 million of related net pension and post retirement settlement and curtailment gains. As of October 31, 2001, 5,700 employees were terminated and we had paid out $238 million of the accrued costs. We also made additional payments of $26 million in fiscal 2001 related to restructuring charges accrued in fiscal 2000. We expect to pay out the remainder of the accrual in fiscal 2002. These workforce reduction programs are expected to result in an annualized cost savings of approximately $500 million. In fiscal 2000, management approved an enhanced early retirement ("EER") program designed to balance the workforce based on our long term business strategy. We offered approximately 2,500 U.S. employees the opportunity to retire early and receive an enhanced payout, and approximately 1,300 employees accepted the offer. Accordingly, we recorded a restructuring charge of $71 million, consisting of $100 million of severance and other employee benefits offset by $29 million of related pension and post retirement settlement and curtailment gains. In addition to the EER program, we incurred $31 million of other restructuring charges during fiscal 2000 related to various site shutdowns resulting from strategic management decisions. In fiscal 2000, we made payments of $98 million related to the restructuring charges accrued during the year, of which $95 million was paid through HPs pension plan based on an amendment to the plan. 19 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Interest and Other, Net Interest and other, net, decreased $185 million in fiscal 2001 and increased $11 million in fiscal 2000. The decline in interest and other, net, for fiscal 2001 was primarily attributable to a decrease in interest income due to lower interest rates on cash and investments and lower average cash and investment balances in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000. Most of the remainder of the decline was due to an increase in interest expense as a result of higher average debt balances, partially offset by lower interest rates. The increase in fiscal 2000 was due mainly to an increase in interest income due to higher average cash and investment balances during fiscal 2000 compared to fiscal 1999. Net Investment (Losses) Gains HP reported net investment losses of $455 million in fiscal 2001 compared to net investment gains of $41 million in fiscal 2000 and net investment gains of $31 million in fiscal 1999. Our investment portfolio includes equity and debt investments in public and privately held emerging technology companies. Many of these emerging technology companies are still in the start up or development stage. Our investments in these companies are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never develop. We monitor our investment portfolio for impairment on a periodic basis. In the event that the carrying value of an investment exceeds its fair value and the decline in value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis for the investment is established. Fair values for investments in public companies are determined using quoted market prices. Fair values for investments in privately held companies are estimated based upon one or more of the following: pricing models using historical and forecasted financial information and current market rates, liquidation values, the values of recent rounds of financing, or quoted market prices of comparable public companies. In order to determine whether a decline in value is other than temporary, HP evaluates, among other factors: the duration and extent to which the fair value has been less than carrying value; the financial condition of and business outlook for the company, including key operational and cash flow metrics, current market conditions and future trends in the companys industry, and the companys relative competitive position within the industry; and our intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. Due to the economic downturn, the decline in value of certain investments in emerging technology companies was determined to be other than temporary. Accordingly, we recorded impairment losses of $471 million on our investments in both public and private emerging technology companies in fiscal 2001. This amount was offset by $16 million of realized gains on the sale of equity securities. As of October 31, 2001, the carrying value of the portion of our remaining investment portfolio related to emerging technology companies was $243 million. Depending on market conditions, we may incur additional charges on our investment portfolio in the future. In fiscal 2000, HP recorded $41 million of net gains on investments, representing gains on sales of equity investments of $104 million, partially offset by impairment losses of $63 million. The net investment gains of $31 million in fiscal 1999 resulted from realized gains on the sale of equity securities. Litigation Settlement On June 4, 2001, HP and Pitney Bowes, Inc. ("Pitney Bowes") announced that they had entered into agreements that resolved all pending patent litigation between the parties without admission of infringement, and in connection therewith HP paid Pitney Bowes $400 million in cash on June 7, 2001. For further discussion regarding the litigation, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 20 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) (Losses) Gains on Divestitures In fiscal 2001, the net loss from divestitures was $53 million, consisting of a $131 million loss on the sale of our VeriFone, Inc. subsidiary, offset by a gain of $78 million on the sale of HPs remaining interest in a joint venture to the other joint owner. In fiscal 2000, the net gain from divestitures was $203 million, consisting of the gains on the sale of non strategic businesses, as well as the gain from the sale of part of HPs interest in the same joint venture to the other joint owner. Earnings from Continuing Operations before Extraordinary Item, Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle and Taxes As reported, earnings from continuing operations before extraordinary item, cumulative effect of change in accounting principle and taxes decreased 85% to $702 million in 2001, compared to a 10% increase to $4.6 billion in fiscal 2000. As a percentage of net revenue, earnings from continuing operations before extraordinary item, cumulative effect of change in accounting principle and taxes was 1.6% in fiscal 2001, compared to 9.5% in fiscal 2000 and 9.9% in fiscal 1999. The significant decline in 2001 was driven by the global economic downturn, as well as $384 million of restructuring charges, $455 million of net investment losses, a $400 million charge for litigation settlement and $53 million of net losses on divestitures. Provision for Taxes HPs effective tax rate from continuing operations was 11% in fiscal 2001, 23% in fiscal 2000 and 26% in fiscal 1999. The year over year decreases were primarily the result of changes in the mix of our pre tax earnings in various tax jurisdictions throughout the world. The mix of the pre tax earnings in fiscal 2001 was significantly impacted by $384 million of restructuring charges, $455 million of net investment losses, a $400 million charge for litigation settlement and $53 million of net losses on divestitures, all on a pre tax basis, which were incurred primarily in higher tax jurisdictions. Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations Net earnings from discontinued operations were $136 million for fiscal 2000. In the second quarter of fiscal 2000, the cumulative net earnings of Agilent Technologies since the July 31, 1999 measurement date began to exceed the total estimated net costs to effect the spin off. Of the $136 million, net earnings of Agilent Technologies for the period from the July 31, 1999 measurement date through the June 2, 2000 spin off date totaled $287 million (net of related tax expense of $174 million), and the net costs to effect the spin off were $151 million (net of related tax benefit of $23 million). Net earnings from discontinued operations of $387 million for fiscal 1999 consisted only of the net earnings of Agilent Technologies. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further discussion. Extraordinary Item In December 2000, the Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program for HPs zero coupon subordinated convertible notes. Under the repurchase program, we may repurchase the notes from time to time at varying prices. In fiscal 2001, we repurchased $1.2 billion in face value of the notes with a book value of $729 million, resulting in an extraordinary gain on the early extinguishment of debt of $56 million (net of related taxes of $33 million). Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle HP adopted Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 ("SAB 101"), "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements" in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, retroactive to November 1, 21 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) 2000. Accordingly, we have restated our consolidated results of operations for the first three quarters of fiscal 2001, including a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $272 million, which was recorded as a reduction of net income as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2001. Had SAB 101 been effective for fiscal 2000 and 1999, the pro forma results and earnings per share would not have been materially different from the previously reported results. Segment Information The following is a discussion of operating results for each of HPs business segments. A description of products and services as well as financial data for each segment can be found in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The financial data for fiscal years 2000 and 1999 have been restated to reflect changes in our organizational structure that occurred during fiscal 2001. These changes are more fully described in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The reportable segments disclosed in this document are based on our management organizational structure as of October 31, 2001. Future changes to this organizational structure may result in changes to the reportable segments disclosed. Imaging and Printing Systems Years Ended October 31, 2001 2000 1999 (In millions) Net revenue...................................... $19,447 $20,468 $18,550 Earnings from operations......................... $ 1,987 $ 2,666 $ 2,364 Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue........................................ 10.2% 13.0% 12.7% Imaging and Printing Systems net revenue declined 5% in fiscal 2001, following growth of 10% in fiscal 2000. On a foreign currency adjusted basis, net revenue declined 2% in 2001 and increased 11% in 2000. Of the overall 5% net revenue decrease for fiscal 2001, on a weighted basis Inkjet and LaserJet printer hardware revenue represented 9 percentage points of the decline, partially offset by 3 percentage points of growth in printer supplies and 1 percentage point of growth in imaging devices. Overall, slowing markets across all product categories and geographic regions due to the economic downturn negatively impacted revenue in 2001. Of the segments overall 10% revenue increase for fiscal 2000, on a weighted basis printer supplies contributed 8 percentage points and imaging devices accounted for 3 percentage points of growth, partially offset by a decline in printer hardware sales of 2 percentage points. Half of the printer hardware net revenue decline in fiscal 2001 was attributable to a decrease in average selling prices driven by a continuing demand shift to lower priced printer products, particularly into the sub $150 printer hardware market, and a competitive pricing environment. The remainder of the printer hardware revenue decline reflected a drop in units of approximately 10% due mainly to softening in both the consumer and business markets. Partially offsetting this decline in printer hardware revenue was growth in printer supplies and imaging products. Half of the net revenue growth for printer supplies reflected a rise in volumes due to continued expansion of the printer hardware installed base, while the remaining growth resulted primarily from higher average selling prices. Net revenue growth in imaging was driven primarily by an increase in unit sales for the product category, moderated by growing demand for lower priced products and competitive pricing. The revenue growth for both supplies and imaging devices in fiscal 2001 was dampened by the economic downturn. Net revenue growth for printer supplies in fiscal 2000 was attributable to increased volumes due mainly to expansion of the printer hardware installed base. Revenue growth in imaging devices was fueled by excellent unit growth from newly introduced products within the category, partially offset by planned pricing declines in all in 22 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) one products and a shift in sales mix to lower priced scanners. Softening demand in the printer hardware market, as well as shifts to lower priced products in this category, moderated the segments net revenue growth in 2000. Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue was 10.2% in fiscal 2001, compared to 13.0% in fiscal 2000 and 12.7% in fiscal 1999. A decline in gross margin accounted for 2.5 points of the 2.8 percentage point decrease in the earnings from operations ratio in 2001, while the remaining decline was due to a slight increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. Within the 2.5 percentage point gross margin decline, gross margins for printer hardware and imaging products collectively dropped 4.6 percentage points on a weighted basis. The majority of this gross margin decrease resulted from the continued shift in sales mix to lower priced products as noted above. Gross margins in these categories were further impacted unfavorably by an increase in inventory related reserves and charges in our Inkjet and imaging businesses and charges related to the cancellation of planned production line expansion in our Inkjet business that occurred in response to weakened economic conditions. These incremental reserves and charges totaled $214 million for fiscal 2001. Partially offsetting the 4.6 point gross margin decline in printer hardware and imaging, on a weighted basis were gross margin improvements of approximately 1.0 percentage point from lower component costs due to a weaker Japanese yen and approximately 0.8 percentage points due to supplies, which typically have gross margins that exceed the segment average, becoming a larger portion of the segments product mix. Although operating expenses decreased in total, operating expense as a percentage of net revenue for the segment increased by 0.3 percentage points compared to the prior year as the decrease in revenues exceeded the rate of decrease in operating expenses. In fiscal 2000, the increase of 0.3 percentage points in the earnings from operations ratio consisted of a 1.2 percentage point improvement in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue, partially offset by a 0.9 percentage point decline in the overall segment gross margin. The decline in the operating expense ratio reflected controlled expense management. The gross margin decline was attributable to a shift toward lower priced printers and imaging devices, as well as higher component costs related to a stronger Japanese yen. These factors, which unfavorably impacted gross margin by 2.7 percentage points on a weighted basis, were offset in part by a 2.0 percentage point margin improvement due to economies of scale from increased production levels of printer supplies. Computing Systems Years Ended October 31, 2001 2000 1999 (In millions) Net revenue...................................... $17,771 $20,653 $17,395 Earnings (loss) from operations.................. $ (450) $ 1,007 $ 988 Earnings (loss) from operations as a percentage of net revenue................................... (2.5)% 4.9% 5.7% Computing Systems net revenue declined 14% in fiscal 2001, following a 19% increase in fiscal 2000. On a foreign currency adjusted basis, net revenue declined 10% in 2001 and increased 22% in 2000. Of the overall 14% revenue decrease for fiscal 2001, on a weighted basis commercial desktop PC and home PC revenues each represented 4 percentage points of the decline and UNIX(R) and PC server revenues each accounted for 3 percentage points. In addition, a decline in revenue from workstations was offset by growth in notebook PCs. Overall segment net revenue in fiscal 2001 was unfavorably impacted by the economic downturn resulting in slowing markets across all product categories and geographic regions. Of the overall 19% net revenue growth for fiscal 2000, on a weighted basis home PCs contributed 11 percentage points, notebook PCs accounted for 6 percentage points and UNIX(R) server growth represented 3 percentage points. This growth was moderated slightly by a decrease in both enterprise storage and commercial desktop PC revenue. In both fiscal 2001 and 23 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) 2000, net revenues in the PC business were impacted by declining average selling prices as a result of decreasing component costs, which are generally passed on to the customer, and competitive pricing pressures. The decline in fiscal 2001 net revenue within the PC business resulted from significant decreases in commercial desktop PCs and home PCs, offset in part by growth in notebook PCs. The revenue decline in commercial desktop PCs almost equally reflected a decrease in volumes and an ongoing decrease in average selling prices. Commercial desktop PC unit sales declined approximately 11% in 2001, while average selling prices declined approximately 10%. A decrease in volumes of approximately 14% accounted for most of the home PC revenue decline, while an approximate 4% decline in average selling prices also contributed to the decrease in this product category. The decline in unit sales in both commercial desktop PCs and home PCs reflected the effects of the economic slowdown in fiscal 2001. In addition, a continued shift toward mobile computing dampened growth in commercial desktop PCs, and home PC revenue was unfavorably impacted by market saturation that began late in fiscal 2000. Notebook PC revenue increased mainly as a result of higher unit sales largely as a result of the previously noted shift toward mobile computing; however, this growth was moderated by an ongoing decline in average selling prices. More than three fourths of the decrease in UNIX(R) server net revenue was due primarily to weakness in mid range servers, which were unfavorably impacted by the enterprise market slowdown and competitive pricing pressures. The UNIX(R) server revenue decline also resulted from a decrease in high end server revenue. Despite increasing sales of our new Superdome server in the last half of fiscal 2001, high end server net revenue was down for the fiscal year due to the slowdown in enterprise capital spending and because Superdome did not begin shipping in volume until January 2001. The decline in high end server revenue in fiscal 2001 was entirely offset by growth in the low end category. The PC server net revenue decline was driven by a sales mix shift to low end products, ongoing competitive pricing pressures and delayed product launches in 2001. Revenue from workstations decreased as a result of the decline in IT spending and overall weakness in the UNIX(R) sector. In fiscal 2000, home PC net revenue growth reflected very strong unit sales, moderated by lower average selling prices. Home PC volumes increased approximately 97%, while average selling prices declined approximately 11% in 2000. Unit growth in home PCs was driven by favorable acceptance of new products and was aided by the exit of two major competitors from the retail market. Revenue growth in notebook PCs was due to an increase in volumes, slightly offset by a decrease in average selling prices. Notebook PC unit sales increased approximately 199%, while average selling prices decreased approximately 18%. Notebook PC volumes in 2000 benefited from the introduction of our retail notebook line as well as continued strong sales of the commercial portfolio. Growth in low end and mid range UNIX(R) servers was driven by increased unit sales and higher average selling prices that resulted from enhanced product offerings. High end UNIX(R) servers, however, exhibited some weakness in 2000, primarily attributable to customer anticipation of our new Superdome server introduced in the fourth quarter of 2000. Net revenue growth for the segment in fiscal 2000 was unfavorably impacted by product transitions resulting from our switch to a new enterprise storage partner. Revenue performance in commercial desktop PCs declined due to lower average selling prices, partially offset by an increase in unit sales. Earnings (loss) from operations as a percentage of net revenue was (2.5)% in fiscal 2001 compared to 4.9% in fiscal 2000 and 5.7% in fiscal 1999. An increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue accounted for 5.3 of the 7.4 percentage point decrease in the earnings from operations ratio in 2001, while the remaining 2.1 percentage points were due to a decline in gross margin. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was mainly attributable to lower revenue coupled with a slight increase in operating expenses. The slight increase in operating expenses reflected significant hiring in the sales organizations over the past year in anticipation of growth in key areas, particularly UNIX(R) servers, software and storage, which did not materialize due to weakened economic conditions. In addition, the segment invested in research and development 24 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) activities for server, software and storage products. Half of the gross margin decline was caused by a decline in PC server gross margin, which resulted from lower average selling prices due to a shift toward lower margin products and competitive pricing pressures. The remainder of the gross margin decline for the segment reflected the effect of the overall market slowdown on commercial desktop PCs and home PCs. The decrease in the earnings from operations ratio in fiscal 2000 of 0.8 percentage points was attributable to a 2.6 percentage point decline in gross margin, partially offset by a 1.8 percentage point improvement in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The decline in gross margin was driven by a mix shift within the segment toward home PCs and notebook PCs, which are lower margin products. In addition, gross margin was unfavorably impacted by higher memory costs and declining average selling prices across the PC business. These margin declines were partially offset by a shift to higher margin UNIX(R) server and enterprise storage products. The improvement in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due to improved operational efficiencies. IT Services Years Ended October 31, 2001 2000 1999 (In millions) Net revenue................................................ $7,599 $7,150 $6,304 Earnings from operations................................... $ 342 $ 474 $ 494 Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue.... 4.5% 6.6% 7.8% IT Services net revenue increased 6% in fiscal 2001, following a 13% increase in fiscal 2000. On a foreign currency adjusted basis, net revenue increased 11% in 2001 and 17% in 2000. Continued growth in customer support and consulting drove the increase in revenue in fiscal 2001, with each category accounting for 3 percentage points of the segments 6% revenue growth on a weighted basis. Fiscal 2001 net revenue was also favorably impacted by solid sales in technology financing and outsourcing which was offset by a revenue decline in complementary third party products delivered with the sales of HP solutions. Overall, customer support, consulting and technology financing net revenue growth in fiscal 2001 was moderated by the global economic downturn, while our outsourcing business benefited from the slowdown as companies reduced costs by outsourcing their IT functions. The segments overall 13% net revenue growth for fiscal 2000 was driven by customer support which contributed 4 percentage points on a weighted basis. Consulting and technology financing each represented approximately 3 percentage points of the total growth, while strength in our complementary products and outsourcing businesses accounted for the remainder of the revenue growth for fiscal 2000. Customer support net revenue grew 6% in fiscal 2001, two thirds of which was attributable to sales of mission critical and networking services, while the remaining increase was due to strength in various other support services. Growth in consulting revenue of 21% was fueled by our ability to pursue an increased number of, as well as larger, engagements as a result of the investment in headcount in fiscal 2000. Consulting net revenue reflected strong demand from the financial services and telecommunications industries, each of which contributed approximately one fourth to the increase in consulting revenue in 2001. The remaining growth in consulting was attributable to an increase in engagements for manufacturing businesses, as well as growth in other types of consulting services. Revenue from our technology financing business was favorably impacted in fiscal 2001 by a mix shift in the portfolio toward operating leases. Net revenue growth in outsourcing was attributable to larger comprehensive deals and increased business as companies reduced costs by outsourcing their IT functions. Moderating the segments overall revenue growth in fiscal 2001 was a decline in the sale of complementary third party products due to a refocusing of this business and softened demand for networking products during the fiscal year. 25 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) In fiscal 2000, customer support net revenue growth was 8%. Half of this growth was attributable to mission critical and networking services, while another one third was due to storage services and support. Growth in consulting resulted from strong demand from the financial services, manufacturing and telecommunications industries. Net revenue from the financial services industry contributed one third of consulting revenue growth in 2000, while sales to manufacturing businesses and the telecommunications industry each accounted for one fifth of the growth. Technology financing revenue benefited in fiscal 2000 from an increase in customer financing arrangements driven by strong performance in UNIX(R) product sales. Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue was 4.5% in fiscal 2001 compared to 6.6% in fiscal 2000 and 7.8% in fiscal 1999. Growth in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue and a decline in gross margin in fiscal 2001 each represented half of the 2.1 percentage point decrease in the earnings from operations ratio for the segment. The growth in the operating expense ratio was due substantially to a $172 million increase in bad debt reserves and write offs in our financing portfolio in response to weakened economic conditions. The one percentage point gross margin decline for IT Services was driven primarily by a decrease in gross margin related to our financing and customer support businesses, moderated by a gross margin improvement in outsourcing and consulting. The gross margin decline in our financing business was due to the mix shift toward operating leases, which have lower margins. Customer support gross margin was negatively impacted by increased costs for support parts due to unfavorable currency effects and a mix shift toward lower margin services. The increase in gross margin for outsourcing reflected increased process standardization and delivery efficiency, while gross margin improvement in consulting resulted from improved labor utilization and overall engagement cost management. The 1.2 percentage point decrease in the earnings from operations ratio in fiscal 2000 was attributable to a 1.6 percentage point increase in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, partially offset by a 0.4 percentage point improvement in gross margin. The increase in the operating expense ratio was due primarily to an increase in bad debt write offs in our financing portfolio and higher marketing expense to support HPs corporate branding initiative. Half of the segments 0.4 percentage point gross margin improvement was driven by the optimization of existing data centers in outsourcing. In addition, consulting gross margin was positively impacted in 2000 by improved engagement cost management. These margin increases were partially offset by lower margins in our complementary products business and an increase in hiring in our support business in anticipation of future growth. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our financial position remained strong throughout fiscal 2001 despite the economic downturn, with cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $4.3 billion at October 31, 2001 compared to $4.0 billion at October 31, 2000. During fiscal 2001, cash flows from operating activities and short term and long term borrowings were used mainly to fund purchases of property, plant and equipment, repurchases of our common stock, repurchases of our zero coupon subordinated convertible notes and payments of dividends. Cash flows from operating activities were $2.6 billion during fiscal 2001 compared to $3.7 billion for fiscal 2000 and $3.1 billion for fiscal 1999. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities in 2001 resulted primarily from a decline in net earnings and timing of payments on accounts payable, partially offset by a decline in receivables and a decrease in inventory. The increase in cash flows from operating activities in 2000 was due mainly to the timing of payments on taxes and accounts payable, partially offset by increases in inventory and other assets. Trade and current financing receivables as a percentage of net revenue were 14.8%, down from 17.5% as of October 31, 2000. The year over year improvement in the ratio is due primarily to a reduction in the number of 26 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable as a result of increased effectiveness in collection efforts. Inventory as a percentage of net revenue was 11.5% at October 31, 2001, compared to 11.7% as of October 31, 2000. The slight decrease in the ratio year over year is mainly attributable to active inventory management. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2001 were $1.5 billion, compared to $1.7 billion for fiscal 2000 and $1.1 billion for fiscal 1999. Net property, plant and equipment as a percentage of net revenue was 9.7% as of October 31, 2001, compared to 9.2% as of October 31, 2000. The increase in this ratio is due mainly to a decrease in net revenue. We invest excess cash in short and long term investments, depending on our projected cash needs for operations, capital expenditures and other business purposes. We also supplement our internally generated cash flow with a combination of short and long term borrowings. Short and long term net borrowings in fiscal 2001 generated cash of $277 million, as short term and long term debt issuances, including the issuance of $636 million (based on the foreign exchange rate at the date of issuance) of Euro Medium Term Notes in July 2001, were partially offset by repurchases of our zero coupon subordinated convertible notes and payments on other long term debt. Long term debt totaling $290 million matured as scheduled in fiscal 2001. In fiscal 2000, short and long term net borrowings generated cash of $165 million due to the issuance of $1.5 billion of Global Notes in June 2000, substantially offset by payments on our short and long term debt. Long term debt totaling $474 million matured as scheduled in fiscal 2000. At October 31, 2001, we had an unused committed borrowing facility in place totaling $1.0 billion. In December 2000, the Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program for HPs zero coupon subordinated convertible notes. Under the repurchase program, we may repurchase the notes from time to time at varying prices. In fiscal 2001, we repurchased notes with a book value of $729 million for an aggregate price of $640 million, resulting in an extraordinary gain on the early extinguishment of debt of $56 million (net of related taxes of $33 million). Between November 1, 2001 and January 15, 2002, we repurchased additional zero coupon subordinated convertible notes with a book value of $42 million for an aggregate price of $33 million, resulting in an extraordinary gain on the early extinguishment of debt of $6 million (net of related taxes of $3 million). In February 2000, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC to register $3.0 billion of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants. The registration statement was declared effective in March 2000. In June 2000, HP offered under this shelf registration statement $1.5 billion of unsecured 7.15% Global Notes, which mature on June 15, 2005 unless previously redeemed. In May 2001, we filed a prospectus supplement to the registration statement, which allowed us to offer from time to time up to $1.5 billion of Medium Term Notes, Series A, due nine months or more from the date of issue, in addition to the other types of securities described above. During fiscal 2001, we issued an aggregate of $210 million of Medium Term Notes with a weighted average interest rate of 3.67% maturing in 2003 and 2004 under the registration statement. As of October 31, 2001, we had remaining capacity to issue approximately $1.3 billion of securities under the shelf registration statement. In December 2001, we offered under the March 2000 shelf registration statement $1.0 billion of unsecured 5.75% Global Notes, which mature on December 15, 2006 unless previously redeemed. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which included repayment of existing indebtedness, capital expenditures and working capital needs. As of January 15, 2002, we had remaining capacity to issue $290 million of securities under the shelf registration statement. HP and Hewlett Packard Finance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of HP ("HPFC"), have the ability to offer from time to time up to $3.0 billion of Medium Term Notes under a Euro Medium Term Note Programme filed with the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. These notes can be denominated in any currency including the euro. 27 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) However, these notes have not been and will not be registered in the United States. In July 2001, 750 million euro (or 636 million U.S. dollars, based on the exchange rate on the date of issuance) of 5.25% Medium Term Notes maturing on July 5, 2006 were issued under this program. As of October 31, 2001, HP and HPFC had remaining capacity to issue approximately $2.3 billion of Medium Term Notes under the program. We repurchase shares of our common stock under a systematic program to manage the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and a separate incremental plan. These plans authorize purchases in the open market or in private transactions. In fiscal 2001, 45,036,000 shares were repurchased for an aggregate price of $1.2 billion. As of October 31, 2001, we had authorization for remaining future repurchases under the two programs of $1.6 billion. In fiscal 2000, 96,978,000 shares were repurchased for $5.6 billion and 62,084,000 shares were repurchased for $2.6 billion in fiscal 1999. On June 4, 2001, HP and Pitney Bowes announced that they had entered into agreements that resolved all pending patent litigation between the parties without admission of infringement and in connection therewith HP paid Pitney Bowes $400 million in cash on June 7, 2001. This payment did not have a material impact on HPs liquidity. For further discussion regarding the litigation see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Completed Acquisitions and Divestitures In fiscal 2001, we acquired Bluestone Software, Inc. for consideration of $531 million and StorageApps Inc. for consideration of $319 million. In each case the consideration consisted of HP common stock issued and options assumed, as well as direct transaction costs. Each of these transactions was accounted for under the purchase method, and accordingly the results of operations of the acquired companies are included in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information about these acquisitions. In fiscal 2001, the net proceeds from divestitures was $117 million resulting from the sale of our VeriFone, Inc. subsidiary and the sale of HPs remaining interest in a joint venture to the other joint owner. In fiscal 2000, the net proceeds from divestitures was $448 million resulting from the sale of non strategic businesses, as well as the sale of part of HPs interest in the same joint venture to the other joint owner. Pending Acquisitions In September 2001, we signed a definitive agreement with Compaq Computer Corporation ("Compaq") to acquire all of the outstanding stock of Compaq in exchange for 0.6325 shares of HP common stock for each outstanding share of Compaq stock and the assumption of options based on the same exchange ratio. The estimated purchase price is $24 billion, which includes the estimated fair value of HP common stock issued and options assumed, as well as estimated direct transaction costs. This estimate was derived using an average market price per share of HP common stock of $20.92, which was based on an average of the closing prices for a range of trading days (August 30, August 31, September 4 and September 5, 2001) around the announcement date (September 3, 2001) of the proposed merger. The final purchase price will be determined based upon the number of Compaq shares and options outstanding at the closing date. Compaq is a leading global provider of enterprise technology and solutions. Completion of the Compaq merger is subject to customary closing conditions that include, among others, receipt of required approvals from our shareowners and from Compaq shareowners, and receipt of required regulatory approvals. The transaction, while expected to close in the first half of calendar year 2002, may not be completed if any of the conditions is not satisfied. Under certain terms specified in the merger agreement, HP or Compaq may terminate the agreement, and as a result, either HP or Compaq may be required to pay a $675 million termination fee to the other party in certain circumstances. Unless otherwise indicated, the 28 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) discussions in this document relate to HP as a stand alone entity and do not reflect the impact of the pending business combination transaction with Compaq. In September 2001, we signed a definitive agreement with Indigo N.V. ("Indigo") to commence an exchange offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Indigo not already owned by HP (the "Shares") in exchange for a combination of shares of HPs common stock and non transferable contingent value rights ("CVR") entitling the holder to a one time contingent cash payment of up to $4.50 per CVR, based on the achievement by the Indigo business of a cumulative revenue milestone over a three year post closing period. Based on the terms of the agreement, current assumptions on the quantity of each consideration alternative, and HPs average closing share price for the 20 day period ended December 31, 2001, the estimated consideration to acquire the Shares is approximately $720 million plus approximately 56 million CVRs. The $720 million consideration amount includes the estimated fair value of HP common stock issued and options and warrants assumed, as well as estimated direct transaction costs. The future cash pay out, if any, of the CVRs will be determined and payable after a three year period commencing shortly after the closing of the exchange offer. Indigo is a leading provider of high performance digital color printing. The completion of this transaction is subject to the tender for exchange of that number of Indigo shares which, when added to Indigo shares currently owned by HP, will constitute at least 95% of Indigos outstanding shares, the receipt of required regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. The transaction, while expected to close in the first half of calendar year 2002, may not be completed if any of the conditions is not satisfied. FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The competitive pressures we face could harm our revenues, gross margins and prospects. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, distribution, customer service and support. If we fail to develop new products, services and support, periodically enhance our existing products, services and support, or otherwise compete successfully, it could harm our operations and prospects. Further, we may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products, services and support to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve gross margins. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margins and therefore our profitability could be adversely affected. If we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services rapidly that meet customer requirements for performance and reliability, we may lose market share and our revenues may suffer. The process of developing new high technology products and services is complex and uncertain, and failure to anticipate customers changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately and to develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property could significantly harm our results of operations. We must make long term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will eventually result in products that the market will accept. After a product is developed, we must be able to manufacture sufficient volumes quickly and at low costs. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mix of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed. If we do not effectively manage the transition from existing products to new products, our revenues may suffer. If we do not make an effective transition from existing products to new products, our revenues may be seriously harmed. Among the factors that make a smooth transition from current products to new products difficult are delays in product development or manufacturing, variations in product costs, delays in customer 29 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product introductions and customer demand for the new product. Our revenues and gross margins also may suffer due to the timing of product or service introductions by our suppliers and competitors. This is especially challenging when a product has a short life cycle or a competitor introduces a new product just before our own product introduction. Furthermore, sales of our new products may replace sales of some of our current products, offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction. There may also be overlaps in the current products of HP and product portfolios acquired through mergers and acquisitions that must be managed. Given the competitive nature of our industry, if we incur delays in new product introductions or do not accurately estimate the market effects of new product introductions, future demand for our products and our revenues may be seriously harmed. Our revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses will suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. We generally rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, partners and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and products used in our operations. However, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or our intellectual property rights may not provide competitive advantages, which could significantly harm our business. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. Third parties also may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we do not believe that our products or business are infringing upon third parties intellectual property rights, the claims can be time consuming and costly to defend and divert managements attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly settlement or license agreements. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could suffer. In addition, it is possible that as a consequence of mergers and acquisitions some of our intellectual property rights may be licensed to a third party that had not been licensed prior to the transaction or that certain restrictions could be imposed on our business that had not been imposed prior to the transaction. Consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these agreements. If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, or if our distributors financial condition or operations weaken, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. We use a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third party resellers and distributors and both retail and direct sales to both enterprise accounts and consumers. Since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, the failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our gross margins and therefore profitability. For example: . As we continue to increase our commitment to direct sales, we could risk alienating channel partners and adversely affecting our distribution model. Since direct sales may compete with the sales made by third party resellers and distributors, these third party resellers and distributors may elect to use other suppliers that do not directly sell their own products. 30 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Because not all of our customers will prefer to or seek to purchase directly, any increase in our commitment to direct sales in order to increase our gross margins could alienate some of our channel partners. As a result, we may lose some of our customers who purchase from third party resellers or distributors. . Some of our wholesale and retail distributors may be unable to withstand changes in business conditions. Some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including the recent economic downturn. Revenues from indirect sales could suffer if our distributors financial condition or operations weaken. . Our inventory management will be complex as we will continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. We must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors. Distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to the distributor and seasonal fluctuations in end user demand. If we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. We depend on third party suppliers and our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected if we fail to receive timely delivery of quality components or if we fail to manage inventory levels properly. Our manufacturing operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components and products and our suppliers ability to deliver quality components and products in time to meet critical manufacturing and distribution schedules. Given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer and the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are dispersed across the globe, problems could arise in planning production and managing inventory levels that could seriously harm us. Among the problems that could arise are component shortages, excess supply and risks related to fixed price contracts that would require us to pay more than the open market price. . Supply shortages. We occasionally may experience a short supply of certain component parts as a result of strong demand in the industry for those parts or problems experienced by suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. . Oversupply. In order to secure components for the production of new products, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers, or we may enter into non cancelable purchase commitments with vendors. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply of parts could result in excess or obsolete components which could adversely affect our gross margins. . Long term pricing commitments. As a result of binding price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. In the event that we become committed to purchase components for prices in excess of the current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components at lower prices, and our gross margins could suffer. 31 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, marketing and information technology support positions. In particular, our product generation efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified engineers. Attracting and retaining skilled solutions providers in the IT support business and qualified sales representatives is also critical to our future. Experienced management and technical, marketing and support personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. This is particularly the case in Silicon Valley, where HPs headquarters and certain key research and development facilities are located. The loss of key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. We also must continue to motivate employees and keep them focused on HPs strategies and goals, which may be particularly difficult due to morale challenges posed by workforce reductions and general uncertainty. The economic downturn could adversely affect our revenues, gross margins and expenses. Our revenues and gross margins depend significantly on the overall demand for computing and imaging products and services, particularly in the product and service segments in which we compete. Softening demand for our products and services caused by the ongoing economic downturn may result in decreased revenues, earnings levels or growth rates and problems with the saleability of inventory and realizability of customer receivables. The global economy has weakened and market conditions continue to be challenging. As a result, individuals and companies are delaying or reducing expenditures, including those for information technology. We have observed effects of the global economic downturn in many areas of our business. The downturn has contributed to reported net revenue declines during fiscal 2001. We have also experienced gross margin declines, reflecting the effect of competitive pressures as well as inventory writedowns and charges associated with the cancellation of planned production line expansion. Our selling, general and administrative expense also was impacted due in part to an increase in bad debt write offs and additions to reserves in our receivables portfolio. The economic downturn also has led to restructuring actions and contributed to writedowns to reflect the impairment of certain investments in our investment portfolio. Further delays or reductions in information technology spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, and consequently, our results of operations, prospects and stock price. Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes could harm our future revenues, costs and expenses and financial condition. Sales outside the United States make up more than half of our revenues. Our future revenues, costs and expenses and financial condition could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including: . changes in a countrys or regions political or economical conditions; . longer accounts receivable cycles; . trade protection measures; . import or export licensing requirements; . overlap or different corporate structures; . unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; . differing technology standards and or customer requirements; . import or export licensing requirements, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components or lead to penalties or restrictions; 32 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) . problems caused by the conversion of various European currencies to the euro and macroeconomic dislocations that may result; and . natural disasters. A portion of our product and component manufacturing, along with key suppliers, also is located outside of the United States, and also could be disrupted by some of the international factors described above. In particular, along with most other PC vendors, we have engaged manufacturers in Taiwan for the production of notebook computers. In 1999, Taiwan suffered a major earthquake, and in 2000 it suffered a typhoon, both of which resulted in temporary communications and supply disruptions. In addition, we procure components from Japan, which also suffers from earthquakes periodically. Moreover, we are in the process of acquiring Indigo, N.V., which has research and development and manufacturing operations located in Israel, which may be more subject to disruptions in light of recent world events. Impairment of investment and financing portfolios could harm our net earnings. We have an investment portfolio that includes minority equity and debt investments and financing for the purchase of our products and services. In most cases, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these investments and may incur losses related to the impairment of these investments and therefore charges to net earnings. Some of our investments are in public and privately held companies that are still in the start up or development stage, which have inherent risks because the markets for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never develop. Furthermore, the values of our investments in publicly traded companies are subject to significant market price volatility. Our investments in technology companies often are coupled with a strategic commercial relationship. Our commercial agreements with these companies may not be sufficient to allow us to obtain and integrate such products our technology into our technology or product lines or otherwise benefit from the relationship, and these companies may be subsequently acquired by third parties, including competitors. Moreover, due to the economic downturn and difficulties that may be faced by some of the companies to which we have supplied financing, our investment portfolio could be further impaired. In order to manage our portfolio of products and technology and further our competitive objectives, we must successfully complete acquisitions and alliances that enhance our strategic businesses and product lines and divest non strategic businesses and product lines. As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding, and enter into agreements relating to, possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures in order to manage our product and technology portfolios and further strategic objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable acquisition, alliance or divestiture candidates, complete these transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and integrate acquired companies. Integration and other risks of acquisitions and strategic alliances can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple acquisitions are pursued simultaneously. However, if we fail to identify and complete these transactions, we may be required to expend resources to internally develop products and technology, may be at a competitive disadvantage or may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, which may have a material effect on our revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses. Integration issues are complex, time consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. The challenges involved in integration include: . demonstrating to customers that the transaction will not result in adverse changes in client service standards or business focus and helping customers conduct business easily; 33 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) . consolidating and rationalizing corporate IT and administrative infrastructures; . consolidating manufacturing operations; . combining product offerings; . coordinating sales and marketing efforts to communicate our capabilities effectively; . coordinating and rationalizing research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies with reduced cost; . preserving distribution, marketing or other important relationships and resolving potential conflicts that may arise; . minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; . persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; . coordinating and combining overseas operations, relationships and facilities, which may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws and regulations; and . managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent reorganizations. We may not successfully address these integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of the transaction to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. Currently, we have several acquisitions that are pending completion, including the proposed merger with Compaq, or that recently have been completed and are still being integrated. In addition to the pending Compaq transaction, we have pending a proposed acquisition of Indigo N.V., a leading commercial and industrial printing systems company. In 2001, we completed acquisitions of StorageApps, Inc., a provider of storage virtualization solutions, and Bluestone Software, Inc., which became part of our middleware division. The number of pending transactions and the size and scope of the proposed merger with Compaq increase both the scope and consequences of ongoing integration risks. Even if an acquisition or alliance is successfully integrated, we may not receive the expected benefits of the transaction. Managing acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures and divestitures requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. These transactions also may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings. As a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results of the combined company that differ from the investment communitys expectations in a given quarter. Terrorist acts and acts of war may seriously harm our business and revenues, costs and expenses and financial condition. Terrorist acts or acts of war (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to HP, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers, or customers, which could significantly impact our revenues, costs and expenses and financial condition. The terrorist attacks that took place in the United States on September 11, 2001 were unprecedented events that have created many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may materially harm our business and results of operations. The long term effects on our business of the September 11, 2001 attacks are unknown. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot 34 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) presently be predicted. In addition, as a major multi national company with headquarters and significant operations located in the United States, we may be impacted by actions against the United States. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters, a portion of our research and development activities, other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California, near major earthquake faults. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults is unknown, but our revenues and financial condition and our costs and expenses could be significantly impacted in the event of a major earthquake. In addition, some areas, including California, have experienced, and may continue to experience, ongoing power shortages, which have resulted in "rolling blackouts." These blackouts could cause disruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors and resellers, or customers. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by earthquakes, power outages and other natural disasters. The revenues and profitability of our operations have historically varied. Our revenues and profit margins vary among our products, customer groups and geographic markets. Our revenue mix in future periods will be different than our current revenue mix. Overall profitability in any given period is dependent partially on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that periods net revenue, and therefore revenue and gross margin trends cannot be reliably predicted. Actual trends may cause us to adjust our operations, which could cause period to period fluctuations in our results of operations. Failure to execute planned cost reductions successfully could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected. Historically, we have undertaken restructuring plans to bring operational expenses to appropriate levels for each of our businesses, while simultaneously implementing extensive new company wide expense control programs. In addition to previously announced workforce reductions, we may have additional workforce reductions in the future. The proposed merger with Compaq contemplates workforce reductions that are expected to involve approximately 15,000 employees of the combined company worldwide, and workforce reductions would also be expected if the proposed merger is not completed. Significant risks associated with these actions that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or that may otherwise harm our business include delays in implementation of anticipated reductions in force in highly regulated locations outside of the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia, redundancies among restructuring programs, and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees or decreases in employee morale. HPs stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. HPs stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. Some of the factors that can affect our stock price are: . the announcement of new products, services or technological innovations by HP or our competitors; . quarterly increases or decreases in HPs revenue or earnings; 35 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) . changes in quarterly revenue or earnings estimates by the investment community; and . speculation in the press or investment community about HPs strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business or significant transactions. General market conditions or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to HPs performance also may affect HPs stock price. For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends to predict future stock prices or financial results. In addition, following periods of volatility in a companys securities, securities class action litigation against a company is sometimes instituted. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. Unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state and international laws governing the environment. We could be subject to liability for remediation if we do not handle these substances in compliance with applicable laws. It is our policy to apply strict standards for environmental protection to sites inside and outside the United States, even when not subject to local government regulations. We record a liability for environmental remediation and related costs when we consider the costs to be probable and the amount of the costs can be reasonably estimated. We have not incurred environmental costs that are presently material, and we are not presently subject to known environmental liabilities that we expect to be material. Some anti takeover provisions contained in HPs certificate of incorporation, bylaws and shareowner rights plan, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. HP has provisions in its certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by the HP Board of Directors. These include provisions: . authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to its common stock; . limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, directors and officers; . limiting the ability of HP shareowners to call special meetings; . requiring advance notice of shareowner proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of HP shareowners and for nominations of candidates for election to the HP Board of Directors; . controlling the procedures for conduct of Board and shareowner meetings and election and removal of directors; and . specifying that shareholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of shareowners. These provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of HP. In addition, HP has adopted a shareowner rights plan. The rights are not intended to prevent a takeover of HP. However, the rights may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of HP deemed undesirable by the HP Board of Directors. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire HP on terms or in a manner not approved by the HP Board of Directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon redemption of the rights. 36 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) As a Delaware corporation, HP also is subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some shareowners from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of HPs outstanding common stock. Any provision of HPs certificate of incorporation or bylaws, HPs shareowner rights plan or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for HP shareowners to receive a premium for their shares of HP common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for HP common stock. HP faces numerous additional risks in connection with the proposed transaction with Compaq, which may adversely affect our results of operations whether or not the merger is completed, and the merger may not be completed on a timely basis or at all. In response to the pending merger transaction involving Compaq, customers and distributors of HP may defer purchasing decisions or elect to switch to other suppliers due to uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings following the merger and our willingness to support and service existing products. In order to address customer uncertainty, we may incur additional obligations. Uncertainty surrounding the proposed transaction also may have an adverse effect on employee morale and retention, and result in the diversion of management attention and resources. In addition, the market values of HP common stock and Compaq common stock will continue to vary prior to completion of the merger transaction due to changes in the business, operations or prospects of HP or Compaq, market assessments of the merger, regulatory considerations, market and economic considerations, or other factors. However, there will be no adjustment to the exchange ratio between HP and Compaq shares in connection with the merger, and the parties do not have a right to terminate the merger agreement based upon changes in the market price of either HP common stock or Compaq common stock. Completion of the merger also is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. HP and Compaq may be unable to obtain regulatory or shareowner approvals required to complete the merger in a timely manner or at all. In order to obtain regulatory approval, we may be required to comply with material restrictions or conditions, which could include a complete or partial license, divestiture, spin off or the holding separate of assets or businesses. HP and Compaq also are required to obtain separate shareowner approvals in connection with the merger. Walter B. Hewlett, Eleanor Hewlett Gimon, Mary Hewlett Jaffe and The William R. Hewlett Revocable Trust have announced that they intend to vote against the proposal to approve the issuance of HP common stock in connection with the Compaq merger. In addition, each of the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation has announced its intention to vote against the proposal to approve the issuance of HP common stock in connection with the Compaq merger. Mr. Hewlett (co trustee of the William R. Hewlett Revocable Trust and Chairman of the Hewlett Foundation), Edwin van Bronkhorst (co trustee of the William R. Hewlett Revocable Trust and trustee of certain Hewlett family trusts) and The William R. Hewlett Revocable Trust have filed a preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission stating that they intend to solicit proxies from HP shareowners against the proposal to approve the issuance of shares of HP common stock in connection with the Compaq merger and have disseminated to HP shareowners soliciting materials encouraging HP shareowners to vote against the Compaq merger. If the merger is not completed, the price of HP common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of HP common stock reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed. Moreover, HP would not derive the strategic benefits expected to result from the merger, such as creating a more complete and balanced product and services portfolio and providing economies of scale in businesses such as PCs. In addition, our business may be harmed to the extent that customers, suppliers or others believe that we cannot effectively compete in the marketplace without the merger or there is customer and employee uncertainty surrounding the future direction of the product and service offerings and strategy of HP on a standalone basis. We also will be required to pay significant costs incurred 37 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) in connection with the merger, including legal, accounting and a portion of the financial advisory fees, whether or not the merger is completed. Moreover, under specified circumstances, HP may be required to pay Compaq a termination fee of $675 million in connection with the termination of the merger agreement. If the merger is completed, we will continue to face risks associated with integration of the businesses and operations of HP and Compaq, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of the merger (primarily associated with anticipated restructurings and other operational efficiencies) to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. In addition to the integration risks previously discussed, our ability to realize these benefits and synergies could be impacted adversely by practical or legal constraints on combining operations or implementing workforce reductions. In addition to the costs and expenses previously discussed, we will be required to make payments to executive officers and key employees under a retention plan adopted in connection with the merger. Also, any downgrade in our credit ratings associated with the merger could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms, including increased borrowing costs, more restrictive covenants and the extension of less open credit. This in turn could affect our internal cost of capital estimates and therefore operational decisions. In addition, the effective tax rate of HP following the merger is uncertain and could exceed HPs currently reported tax rate and the weighted average of the pre merger tax rates of HP and Compaq. Moreover, charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may affect the market value of HPs common stock adversely following the merger, as HP will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired in connection with the merger, and, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with the merger becomes impaired, HP may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. The foregoing risks are described in more detail in HPs Current Report on Form 8 K dated November 15, 2001 and incorporated by reference herein. ADOPTION OF THE EURO In 1997, we established a dedicated task force to address the issues raised by the introduction of a European single currency, the euro. The euros initial implementation was effective as of January 1, 1999, and the transition period continued through January 1, 2002 when the euro was adopted as the physical currency and legal tender in twelve European countries, the final step of the transition. On January 1, 1999, we began converting our product prices from local currencies to the euro as required. We implemented system changes to give multi currency capability to internal applications and to ensure that external partners systems processing euro conversions were compliant with the European Council regulations. In addition, we implemented design changes to support display and printing of the euro character by impacted HP products. In 2000, our task force implemented a comprehensive euro program to manage the changeover of all operational aspects of our business in preparation for the final transition in January 2002. We experienced no significant operational issues upon the final implementation date. The introduction and use of the euro has not had a material effect on our foreign exchange and hedging activities, use of derivative instruments or overall foreign currency risk, and we do not presently expect that it will. We do not expect a material impact on product pricing, but we will continue to monitor this aspect of the change going forward. All costs associated with the conversion to the euro are expensed to operations as incurred. While we will continue to evaluate the impact of the euro over time, based on currently available information, we do not believe that the use of the euro currency will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. 38 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, "Business Combinations" and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." SFAS 141 requires that all business combinations be accounted for by the purchase method of accounting and changes the criteria for recognition of intangible assets acquired in a business combination. The provisions of SFAS 141 apply to all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. We do not expect that the adoption of SFAS 141 will have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. SFAS 142 requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives no longer be amortized; however, these assets must be reviewed at least annually for impairment. Intangible assets with finite useful lives will continue to be amortized over their respective useful lives. The standard also establishes specific guidance for testing for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. The provisions of SFAS 142 will be effective for our fiscal year 2003, with early adoption permitted at the beginning of our fiscal year 2002. However, goodwill and intangible assets acquired after June 30, 2001 are subject immediately to the non amortization provisions of SFAS 142. We are currently in the process of evaluating the potential impact that the adoption of SFAS 142 will have on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." SFAS 144 amends existing accounting guidance on asset impairment and provides a single accounting model for long lived assets to be disposed of. Among other provisions, the new rules change the criteria for classifying an asset as held for sale. The standard also broadens the scope of businesses to be disposed of that qualify for reporting as discontinued operations, and changes the timing of recognizing losses on such operations. The provisions of SFAS 144 will be effective for our fiscal year 2003 and will be applied prospectively. We are currently in the process of evaluating the potential impact that the adoption of SFAS 144 will have on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and equity market price risks that could impact our results of operations. Our risk management strategy includes the use of derivative financial instruments, including forwards, swaps and purchased options, to hedge certain of these exposures. Our objective is to offset gains and losses resulting from these exposures with gains and losses on the derivative contracts used to hedge them, thereby reducing volatility of earnings or protecting fair values of assets and liabilities. We do not enter into any trading or speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments. Foreign currency exchange rate risk We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We transact business in approximately 30 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to our operations are the euro, the Japanese yen and the British pound. For most currencies we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. For the Japanese yen, however, we are a net payer and therefore tend to benefit from a stronger U.S. dollar against the yen. We have performed a sensitivity analysis as of October 31, 2001 and 2000, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar with all other variables held constant. The analysis covers all of our foreign exchange forward contracts offset by the underlying exposures. Options are excluded from the analysis. The foreign 39 HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) currency exchange rates used were based on the spot rates in effect at October 31, 2001 and 2000. The sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, net of exposures, of $52 million at October 31, 2001 and $45 million at October 31, 2000. Interest rate risk We are also exposed to interest rate risk related to our fixed rate debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. We have performed a sensitivity analysis as of October 31, 2001 and 2000, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant. The analysis covers our fixed rate unhedged debt, unhedged investment instruments and financing receivables and is based on our assumed overall maturities of three months for short term debt and investments, three years for long term debt and investments and the actual maturities for financing receivables. The discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at October 31, 2001 and 2000. The sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investment instruments and financing receivables of $14 million at October 31, 2001 and $36 million at October 31, 2000. Equity price risk We are also exposed to equity price risk inherent in our portfolio of publicly traded equity securities, which had an estimated fair value of $148 million at October 31, 2001 and $328 million at October 31, 2000. We monitor our equity investments on a periodic basis. In the event that the carrying value of the equity investment exceeds its fair value, and the decline in value is determined to be other than temporary, the carrying value is reduced to its current fair value. Generally, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these equity securities. We do not hold our equity securities for trading or speculative purposes. A hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair values of our marketable equity securities of $44 million at October 31, 2001 and $98 million at October 31, 2000. Actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price movements and our actual exposures and hedges. 40 
 
