ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES General Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of HPs Board of Directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical accounting policies reflect its more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Business Combinations We are required to allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as in process research and development ("IPR&D"), based on their estimated fair values. We engage independent third party appraisal firms to assist us in determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. The significant purchased intangible assets recorded by HP include customer contracts, developed and core technology and the Compaq trade name. The fair values assigned to the identified intangible assets are discussed in detail in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Critical estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from customer contracts, customer lists, distribution agreements, and acquired developed technologies and patents; expected costs to develop IPR&D into commercially viable products and estimating cash flows from projects when completed; Compaq brand awareness and market position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the brand will continue to be used in HPs product portfolio; and discount rates. Managements estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. Other estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions may change as additional information becomes available regarding the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as more fully discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. In addition, liabilities to restructure the pre acquisition HP and pre acquisition Compaq organizations, including the termination of employees, are subject to change as management continues its assessment of operations and executes 21 the approved plan. For a description of valuation assumptions and estimates relating to the Compaq acquisition and certain other acquisitions, see Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Valuation of Long Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets We review property, plant and equipment, goodwill and purchased intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Our asset impairment review assesses the fair value of the assets based on the future cash flows the assets are expected to generate. An impairment loss is recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset plus net proceeds expected from disposition of the asset (if any) are less than the carrying value of the asset. This approach uses our estimates of future market growth, forecasted revenue and costs, expected periods the assets will be utilized and appropriate discount rates. Such evaluations of impairment of long lived assets including goodwill and purchased intangible assets are an integral part of, but not limited to, our strategic reviews of our business and operations performed in conjunction with restructuring actions. When an impairment is identified, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its estimated fair value. Deterioration of our business in a geographic region or within a business segment in the future could also lead to impairment adjustments as such issues are identified. Revenue Recognition We enter into contracts to sell our products and services, and, while the majority of our sales agreements contain standard terms and conditions, there are agreements that contain multiple elements or non standard terms and conditions. As a result, significant contract interpretation is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including how the price should be allocated among the deliverable elements if there are multiple deliverables, whether undelivered elements are essential to the functionality of delivered elements, and when to recognize revenue. We recognize revenue for delivered elements only when the following criteria are satisfied: undelivered elements are not essential to the functionality of delivered elements, uncertainties regarding customer acceptance are resolved, no significant obligations remain, and the fair value of each undelivered element is known. Changes in the allocation of the sales price between deliverables might impact the timing of revenue recognition, but would not change the total revenue recognized on the contract. We recognize revenue and profit as work progresses on long term, fixed price consulting contracts using the percentage of completion method. When applying the percentage of completion method, we rely on estimates of total expected contract revenue and costs. We follow this method because reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and costs applicable to various stages of a contract can be made. Recognized revenue and profit are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Revisions to revenue and profit estimates are charged to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. We record estimated reductions to revenue for customer and distributor programs and incentive offerings, including price protection, promotions, other volume based incentives and expected returns. Future market conditions and product transitions may require us to take actions to increase customer incentive offerings, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. Additionally, certain incentive programs require us to estimate the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive based on historical experience. 22 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We evaluate the collectibility of our trade and financing receivables based on a combination of factors. We regularly analyze our significant customer accounts, and, when we become aware of a specific customers inability to meet its financial obligations to us, such as in the case of bankruptcy filings or deterioration in the customers operating results or financial position, we record a specific reserve for bad debt to reduce the related receivable to the amount we reasonably believe is collectible. We also record reserves for bad debt for all other customers based on a variety of factors including the length of time the receivables are past due, the financial health of the customer, macroeconomic considerations and historical experience. If circumstances related to specific customers change, our estimates of the recoverability of receivables could be further adjusted. Inventory Our inventory purchases and commitments are made in order to build inventory to meet future shipment schedules based on forecasted demand for our products. The business environment in which we operate is subject to rapid changes in technology and customer demand. We perform a detailed assessment of inventory by segment each period, which includes a review of, among other factors, demand requirements, product life cycle and development plans, component cost trends, product pricing and quality issues. Based on this analysis, we record adjustments to inventory for excess, obsolescence or impairment, when appropriate, to reflect inventory at net realizable value. Revisions to our inventory adjustments may be required if actual demand, component costs or product life cycles differ from our estimates. Warranty Provision We provide for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. While we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers, our estimated warranty obligation is affected by ongoing product failure rates, specific product class failures outside of our baseline experience, material usage and service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. If actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. We evaluate our warranty obligations on a segment basis. Retirement Benefits Our employee pension and other post retirement benefit (i.e., health care and life insurance) costs and obligations are dependent on our assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts. These assumptions include health care cost trend rates, salary growth, long term return on plan assets, discount rates and other factors. Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook and an assessment of likely long term trends. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience and future and near term outlook. Long term return on plan assets is determined based on historical results of the portfolio and managements expectation of the current economic environment. We base the discount rate assumption on current investment yields on AA rated corporate long term bond yields. Our key assumptions are described in further detail in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Actual results that differ from our assumptions are accumulated and amortized over the future working life of the plan participants. While we believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, significant 23 differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions would affect our pension and other post retirement benefits costs and obligations. Investment in Debt and Equity Securities We monitor our investment portfolio for impairment on a periodic basis. Our investment portfolio includes equity and debt investments in publicly traded and privately held emerging technology companies. Many of these emerging technology companies are still in the start up or development stage. Our investments in these companies are inherently risky because the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never become successful. In the event that the carrying value of an investment exceeds its fair value and the decline in value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis for the investment is established. Fair values for investments in public companies are determined using quoted market prices. Fair values for investments in privately held companies are estimated based upon one or more of the following: pricing models using historical and forecasted financial information and current market rates; liquidation values; the values of recent rounds of financing; and quoted market prices of comparable public companies. In order to determine whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we evaluate, among other factors: the duration and extent to which the fair value has been less than the carrying value; the financial condition of and business outlook for the company, including key operational and cash flow metrics, current market conditions and future trends in the companys industry; the companys relative competitive position within the industry; and our intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. Taxes on Earnings Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the U.S. Earnings remittance amounts are planned based on the projected cash flow needs as well as the working capital and long term investment requirements of our foreign subsidiaries and our domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount that will be distributed to the U.S. and accordingly provide for the U.S. federal taxes due on these amounts. Material changes in our estimates of cash, working capital and long term investment requirements could impact our effective tax rate. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. We have considered future market growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets would be realized, the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. 24 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Acquisition of Compaq Computer Corporation On May 3, 2002, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Compaq, a leading global provider of information technology products, services and solutions for enterprise customers. As a result, the fluctuations in the operating results of HP and its segments in fiscal 2002 as compared to the historical fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000 results are due generally to the acquisition of Compaq. The historical results section below presents a discussion of our consolidated operating results using the historical results of HP prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") for the years ended October 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, including Compaqs results of operations from May 3, 2002 (the acquisition date). In order to provide additional information relating to our operating results, we also present a discussion of our consolidated operating results as if HP and Compaq had been a combined company in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001. We have included this additional information in order to provide further insight into our operating results, prior period trends and current position. This supplemental information is presented in a manner consistent with the disclosure requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, "Business Combinations," which are described in more detail in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Due to different fiscal period ends for HP and Compaq, Compaqs results for the prior quarters ended December 31, March 31, June 30 and September 30 have been combined with HPs results for the fiscal quarters ended January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31. The discussion of operating results at the consolidated level is followed by a more detailed discussion of operating results by segment. The discussion of our segment operating results is presented on a historical basis for the years ended October 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, including Compaqs results of operations from May 3, 2002 (the acquisition date). In order to provide additional information relating to our segment operating results, we also present a discussion of our segment operating results as if HP and Compaq had been a combined company in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001. This supplemental information is presented in a manner consistent with the supplemental disclosures included in consolidated operating results discussion. The combined company segment discussions also present certain product category fluctuations highlighted at the combined company consolidated level. Spin off of Agilent Technologies Our consolidated financial statements for all periods present the businesses of Agilent Technologies as a discontinued operation through the spin off date of June 2, 2000. Unless otherwise indicated, the following discussion relates to HPs continuing operations. Historical Results The following discussion compares the historical results of operations on a GAAP basis for the years ended October 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. These results include Compaqs results of operations 25 from May 3, 2002 (the acquisition date). Results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: For the following years ended October 31 Dollars in millions 2002 2001 2000 Net revenue $ 56,588 100.0 % $ 45,226 100.0 % $ 48,870 100.0 % Gross margin(1) 15,009 26.5 % 11,731 25.9 % 13,824 28.3 % Research and development 3,312 5.9 % 2,724 6.0 % 2,627 5.4 % Selling, general and administrative 9,033 16.0 % 6,950 15.3 % 6,984 14.3 % Restructuring charges 1,780 3.1 % 384 0.8 % 102 0.2 % In process research and development charges 793 1.4 % 35 0.1 % Acquisition related charges 701 1.2 % 25 0.1 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets and goodwill 402 0.7 % 174 0.4 % 86 0.2 % (Loss) earnings from operations (1,012 ) (1.8 )% 1,439 3.2 % 4,025 8.2 % Interest and other, net 52 0.1 % 171 0.4 % 356 0.8 % Net (loss) gain on divestitures (53 ) (0.1 )% 203 0.4 % Net investment (losses) gains (106 ) (0.2 )% (455 ) (1.0 )% 41 0.1 % Litigation settlements 14 (400 ) (0.9 )% (Loss) earnings from continuing operations before extraordinary item, cumulative effect of change in accounting principle and taxes (1,052 ) (1.9 )% 702 1.6 % 4,625 9.5 % (Benefit from) provision for taxes (129 ) (0.3 )% 78 0.2 % 1,064 2.2 % Net (loss) earnings from continuing operations before extraordinary item and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (923 ) (1.6 )% 624 1.4 % 3,561 7.3 % Net earnings from discontinued operations 136 0.3 % Extraordinary item gain on early extinguishment of debt, net of taxes 20 56 0.1 % Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of taxes (272 ) (0.6 )% Net (loss) earnings $ (903 ) (1.6 )% $ 408 0.9 % $ 3,697 7.6 % (1)Gross margin is defined as total net revenue less cost of products, cost of services and financing interest. Net Revenue Net revenue increased 25% in fiscal 2002 to $56.6 billion. U.S. revenue in fiscal 2002 increased 24% to $23.3 billion, while international revenue in fiscal 2002 grew 26% to $33.3 billion. Foreign currency fluctuations did not have a material impact on HP consolidated revenue growth in fiscal 2002 due to relatively stable exchange rates of the significant foreign currencies in which we generated revenue. The net revenue increase is attributable primarily to our acquisition of Compaq at the 26 beginning of May 2002. Net revenue growth in IPG also contributed to the increase, particularly due to growth in printer supplies that resulted from a rise in volume due to the continued expansion of the printer hardware installed base. However, these effects were partially offset by a decline in sales volumes across many product categories due to the ongoing global economic downturn as well as a competitive environment, particularly in the PC and server businesses. In addition, we experienced a shift in sales mix to lower priced products, particularly in printer hardware, industry standard servers and workstations. Sales volumes also declined due to a consolidation of product offerings as a result of post acquisition product roadmap decisions in industry standard servers, commercial PCs, storage and personal appliances. In fiscal 2001, net revenue declined 7% to $45.2 billion. U.S. revenue in fiscal 2001 declined 13% to $18.8 billion, while international revenue in fiscal 2001 decreased 3% to $26.4 billion. On a foreign currency adjusted basis, net revenue declined 3% year over year. The foreign currency effect in fiscal 2001 was due primarily to the weakening of the euro. The global economic downturn contributed significantly to the decline in both U.S. and international revenue in fiscal 2001, as sales volumes declined across many product categories. Revenue from printer hardware and PCs declined primarily as a result of decreases in volume. Printer hardware revenue also was affected by a shift in sales mix into the sub $150 printer market. Business critical and industry standard servers also contributed slightly to the year over year decline. These decreases were partially offset by growth in printer supply revenue. In addition, ongoing competitive pricing pressures affected revenue performance in many of our product categories, particularly for commercial and consumer PCs and printer hardware. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 26.5% in fiscal 2002 compared to 25.9% in fiscal 2001. The 0.6 percentage point gross margin increase was the result primarily of a higher gross margin in IPG. Fiscal 2002 gross margin also was impacted positively by effective overall cost management and by cost reductions resulting from workforce reductions. In addition, although HP recorded inventory related charges in fiscal 2002 that related primarily to product roadmap decisions associated with the acquisition of Compaq, these charges were $180 million lower than the inventory related charges recorded in fiscal 2001. Partially offsetting the improvement in gross margin was lower gross margin in ESG, as well as a product mix shift, including the impact of the addition of Compaq products beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2002. Further moderating the overall improvement in gross margin were declines in sales volumes across many product categories due to continued economic weakness and a competitive pricing environment. Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 25.9% in fiscal 2001 compared to 28.3% in fiscal 2000. The 2.4 percentage point decrease in the gross margin ratio in fiscal 2001 resulted primarily from declines in IPG, ESG and PSG, which declined 0.9, 0.5 and 0.4 percentage points, respectively, on a weighted basis. Overall, in fiscal 2001 gross margins were impacted negatively by a significant decline in sales volumes across many product categories resulting from the global economic downturn and increased inventory related charges in response to this downturn. The increase of $336 million in inventory related charges mainly impacted our Inkjet, digital imaging and personal appliances businesses. In addition, printer hardware and digital imaging were impacted unfavorably by a continuing shift to lower priced products in response to customer demand, while the server and financing businesses also slightly contributed to the overall gross margin decrease. These gross margin declines were partially offset by an improved gross margin in printer supplies. 27 Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expense as a percentage of net revenue was 5.9% in fiscal 2002 compared to 6.0% in fiscal 2001. Research and development expense increased 22% in fiscal 2002. The inclusion of Compaq since its acquisition in May 2002 accounted for substantially all of the increase in research and development expense. The remainder of the increase resulted from our continuing investment in printer hardware and supplies and digital imaging products, as well as higher company performance bonuses compared to fiscal 2001. The increase in expense was mitigated by our workforce reduction efforts and expense control measures. Research and development expense as a percentage of net revenue was 6.0% in fiscal 2001 compared to 5.4% in fiscal 2000. Research and development expense increased 4% in fiscal 2001. Continued investment in server products within ESG was partially offset by lower research and development spending in HPS and IPG as a result of focused spending in key areas and expense reductions in less strategic programs. In addition, company wide actions taken by management throughout the year to control expenses, including the restructuring actions undertaken in fiscal 2001, moderated research and development expense growth in fiscal 2001. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net revenue was 16.0% in fiscal 2002 compared to 15.3% in fiscal 2001. Selling, general and administrative expense increased 30% in fiscal 2002 compared to the prior year. The inclusion of Compaq since its acquisition in May 2002 accounted for the majority of the increase in selling, general and administrative expense mitigated in part by declines resulting from our workforce reduction efforts and expense control measures. In addition, higher company performance bonuses in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 contributed approximately 2 percentage points of the increase in expense, offset by a 1 percentage point decrease from lower bad debt expense. Selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net revenue was 15.3% in fiscal 2001 compared to 14.3% in fiscal 2000. Selling, general and administrative expense decreased less than 1% in fiscal 2001. Company wide actions taken by management throughout the year to control expenses, including the restructuring actions undertaken in fiscal 2001, were partially offset by a $172 million increase in bad debt reserves and write offs in our financing portfolio due to weakened economic conditions. Restructuring Charges In connection with the acquisition of Compaq, HPs management initiated and during the third and fourth quarters approved plans to restructure the operations of pre acquisition HP to eliminate certain duplicative activities, focus on strategic product and customer bases, reduce cost structure and better align product and operating expenses with existing general economic conditions. Consequently, we recorded approximately $1.8 billion of costs associated with these restructuring plans in fiscal 2002. These costs were accounted for under Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 94 3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity" and have been included as a charge to the results of operations for the year ended October 31, 2002. Management also approved plans to restructure the operations of pre acquisition Compaq. In connection with these plans, we recorded approximately $960 million of restructuring costs for items similar to those described above for HP. These costs are accounted for under EITF Issue No. 95 3, 28 "Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with Purchase Business Combinations." These costs were recognized as a liability assumed in the purchase business combination and included in the allocation of the cost to acquire Compaq. Of the total expected $3 billion of annual cost synergies associated with the Compaq acquisition, which are anticipated to be fully realized in fiscal year 2004, approximately $2 billion of the savings are the result of these restructuring plans. These savings are expected to reduce product and service cost of sales resulting from combined procurement activities and operating expenses related to leveraging our labor and facilities costs. The fiscal 2002 charge of $1.8 billion to restructure the pre acquisition HP organization consisted mainly of severance, early retirement costs and other employee benefits, non inventory asset impairment charges, and other related restructuring activities. The severance, early retirement costs, and other employee benefits related to the planned early retirement or termination of 8,600 employees worldwide across many regions, business functions and job classes. As of October 31, 2002, approximately 6,400 employees were included in the workforce reduction program, had retired or had been terminated, and payments of approximately $255 million had been made. Benefits of approximately $215 million have been or will be paid through post retirement and pension plans for retiring employees. Additionally, approximately $104 million of the charge is non cash and relates primarily to net pension and post retirement settlement and curtailment losses. We expect to pay the remaining balance of the severance accrual within fiscal 2003. The non inventory asset impairment of $546 million for goodwill and purchased intangible assets was due primarily to product roadmap decisions made in conjunction with the Compaq acquisition that led to the elimination of substantially all of our middleware and storage virtualization offerings acquired in fiscal 2001. Other related restructuring charges consisted primarily of the cost of vacating duplicate facilities and the cost of exiting certain contractual obligations. As discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, restructuring charges are not allocated to our segments. However, our restructuring plans and actions were undertaken to streamline our business operations, and, as such, of the total $2.7 billion of restructuring costs recorded in fiscal 2002, $1.2 billion, $510 million, $421 million and $76 million is attributable to actions taken in ESG, HPS, PSG and IPG, respectively. The remaining $497 million relates to actions taken in our shared services and infrastructure functions. In fiscal 2001, management approved restructuring actions to respond to the global economic downturn and to improve our cost structure by streamlining operations and prioritizing resources in strategic areas of our business infrastructure. We recorded a restructuring charge of $384 million in fiscal 2001 to reflect these actions. The fiscal 2001 charge consisted of severance and other employee benefits related to the termination of approximately 7,500 employees worldwide, across many regions, business functions and job classes, as well as costs related to the consolidation of excess facilities. We recorded additional restructuring charges of $21 million in fiscal 2002 to reflect adjustments to the expected severance cost of our fiscal 2001 restructuring plans. As of October 31, 2002, substantially all of these employees were terminated, and we had paid $394 million of the accrued costs. In fiscal 2000, management approved an enhanced early retirement ("EER") program designed to balance the workforce based on our long term business strategy. We offered approximately 2,500 U.S. employees the opportunity to retire early and receive an enhanced payout, and approximately 1,300 employees accepted the offer. Accordingly, we recorded a restructuring charge of $71 million, consisting of $95 million of severance and $5 million of other employee benefits offset by $29 million of related pension and post retirement settlement and curtailment gains. In addition to the EER program, we incurred $31 million of other restructuring charges during fiscal 2000 related to various site shutdowns 29 resulting from strategic management decisions. All amounts relating to the EER program had been paid by October 31, 2001. In Process Research and Development Charges In fiscal 2002, we recorded IPR&D charges of $735 million in connection with the acquisition of Compaq and $58 million in connection with the acquisition of Indigo. Projects that qualify as IPR&D represent those that have not yet reached technological feasibility and for which no future alternative uses existed. Technological feasibility is defined as being equivalent to a beta phase working prototype in which there is no remaining risk relating to the development. In fiscal 2001, we recorded IPR&D charges of $35 million related primarily to our middleware and storage virtualization offerings that were acquired in that year. Acquisition Related Charges We incurred acquisition related charges of $701 million in fiscal 2002 and $25 million in fiscal 2001. The fiscal 2002 charge related to the acquisition of Compaq and consisted primarily of costs incurred for employee retention bonuses, advertising, proxy solicitation costs, consulting services and other professional fees. The fiscal 2001 charge included charges related primarily to the unsuccessful bid for the PricewaterhouseCoopers consulting business. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets and Goodwill Goodwill related to acquisitions that occurred prior to July 1, 2001 and purchased intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally two to ten years. Amortization expense was $402 million in fiscal 2002, $174 million in fiscal 2001 and $86 million in fiscal 2000. The increase in fiscal 2002 was due to purchased intangible assets from the Compaq and Indigo acquisitions. Goodwill related to acquisitions that occurred after June 30, 2001 is not amortized under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." Effective November 1, 2002, HP adopted the remaining portion of SFAS No. 142. Accordingly, goodwill will be reviewed for impairment at least annually. Post Retirement Benefit Costs Future effects of post retirement benefit plans on our operating results depend on a number of factors, including our assumptions of health care cost trend rates, salary growth, long term return on plan assets and discount rates. Changes to our assumptions as of October 31, 2002 include a decrease in the long term rate of return on assets, a decrease in the discount rate, a decrease in the average rate of salary increases and an increase in health care cost trend rates. We expect the addition of pre acquisition Compaq employees to our pension and post retirement benefit plans on January 1, 2003, the difference between actual portfolio performance and historical assumptions, changes to assumptions at October 31, 2002 and the convergence of Compaqs existing plans to HPs accounting policies to result in an overall increase in our net periodic pension and post retirement benefit costs of approximately $450 million in fiscal 2003. Interest and Other, Net Interest and other, net decreased $119 million in fiscal 2002 from fiscal 2001 and decreased $185 million in fiscal 2001 from fiscal 2000. The decline in fiscal 2002 was attributable primarily to higher costs associated with our foreign currency forward contracts coupled with an increase in 30 unhedged losses on foreign currency exposure on balance sheet remeasurement. The unhedged losses were the result primarily of the strengthening of the dollar against Latin American currencies. The fiscal 2002 decline also resulted, to a lesser extent, from decreased interest income due to lower interest rates on cash and investments offset in part by lower interest expense on debt. The fiscal 2001 decline was due primarily to a decrease in interest income resulting from lower interest rates on cash and investments and lower average cash and investment balances compared to fiscal 2000. Most of the remainder of the fiscal 2001 decline was due to an increase in interest expense as a result of higher average debt balances, partially offset by lower interest rates. Net (Loss) Gain on Divestitures In fiscal 2001, we incurred a net loss on divestures of $53 million. The net loss consisted of a $131 million loss on the sale of our VeriFone, Inc. subsidiary, partially offset by a gain of $78 million on the sale to Ericsson of HPs remaining interest in the Ericsson HP Technology joint venture. In fiscal 2000, we recorded a net gain on divestitures of $203 million, consisting of gains on the sale of non strategic businesses, as well as the gain on the sale to Ericsson of a portion of HPs interest in the Ericsson HP Technology joint venture. Net Investment (Losses) Gains Due to the economic downturn, the declines in value of certain investments in emerging technology companies were determined to be other than temporary. Accordingly, we recorded net investment losses of $106 million in fiscal 2002 and $455 million in fiscal 2001 on our investments in both publicly traded as well as privately held emerging technology companies. The fiscal 2001 net investment losses consisted of a $471 million impairment loss offset by $16 million of realized gains on the sale of equity securities. In fiscal 2000, we recorded $41 million of net gains on investments, representing gains on sales of equity investments of $104 million, partially offset by impairment losses of $63 million. Our investment portfolio includes equity and debt investments in publicly traded and privately held emerging technology companies. Many of these emerging technology companies are still in the start up or development stage. Our investments in these companies are inherently risky because the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never become successful. Depending on market conditions, we may incur additional charges on our investment portfolio in the future. Litigation Settlements In July 2001, we signed a definitive agreement with Comdisco, Inc. ("Comdisco") to acquire substantially all of Comdiscos business continuity services business. The agreement was subject to the bankruptcy court sales process and related approvals. In November 2001, the bankruptcy court announced that we were not selected as the winning bidder to acquire Comdiscos business continuity services business. In the third quarter of fiscal 2002, we received $14 million in a settlement related to the termination of the definitive agreement. In June 2001, HP and Pitney Bowes Inc. ("Pitney Bowes") announced they had entered into agreements that resolved all pending patent litigation between the parties without admission of infringement and in connection therewith HP paid Pitney Bowes $400 million in cash in June 2001. For further discussion of this agreement, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 31 (Benefit from) Provision for Taxes Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% generally due to tax rate benefits of certain earnings from operations in lower tax jurisdictions throughout the world for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the U.S. These benefits were partially offset in these years by non deductible charges for amortization of goodwill, IPR&D and certain other acquisition related charges. For a reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the federal statutory rate, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. HPs effective tax benefit rate from continuing operations was 12% in fiscal 2002. HPs effective tax provision rates from continuing operations were 11% in fiscal 2001 and 23% in fiscal 2000. In addition to the impact of benefits from lower tax jurisdictions, the effective tax benefit rate in fiscal 2002 was below the statutory rate because of the impact of non deductible items, primarily IPR&D, goodwill and acquisition costs. The effective tax rates in fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000 were below the statutory rate primarily because of the mix of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions, partially offset by non deductible goodwill and, in fiscal 2001, non deductible acquisition related costs and IPR&D. Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations Net earnings from discontinued operations were $136 million for fiscal 2000. In the second quarter of fiscal 2000, the cumulative net earnings of Agilent Technologies since the July 31, 1999 measurement date began to exceed the total estimated net costs to effect the spin off. Of the $136 million, net earnings of Agilent Technologies for the period from the July 31, 1999 measurement date through the June 2, 2000 spin off date totaled $287 million (net of related tax expense of $174 million), and the net costs to effect the spin off were $151 million (net of related tax benefit of $23 million). Extraordinary Item In December 2000, the Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program for our zero coupon subordinated convertible notes due in 2017. Under the repurchase program, we have repurchased the notes from time to time at varying prices. In fiscal 2002, we repurchased $257 million in face value of the notes with a book value of $158 million for an aggregate purchase price of $127 million, resulting in an extraordinary gain on the early extinguishment of debt of $20 million (net of related taxes of $11 million). In fiscal 2001, we repurchased $1.2 billion in face value of the notes with a book value of $729 million for an aggregate purchase price of $640 million, resulting in an extraordinary gain on the early extinguishment of debt of $56 million (net of related taxes of $33 million). Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle HP adopted Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 ("SAB 101"), "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements" in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, retroactive to November 1, 2000. Accordingly, we restated our consolidated results of operations for the first three quarters of fiscal 2001, including a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $272 million, which was recorded as a reduction of net income as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2001. Combined Company Results As previously described, the following discussion includes the combined results of operations of HP and Compaq as if the acquisition had occurred as of the beginning of fiscal 2001. Due to different 32 historical fiscal period ends for HP and Compaq, the results for the year ended October 31, 2002 combine the results of HP for the year ended October 31, 2002 and the historical quarterly results of Compaq for the six month period ended March 31, 2002 and for the period May 3, 2002 (the acquisition date) to October 31, 2002. The combined company results for the year ended October 31, 2001 combine the historical results of HP for the year ended October 31, 2001 and the historical quarterly results of Compaq for the twelve month period ended September 30, 2001. Adjustments have been made to the combined results of operations primarily to reflect amortization of purchased intangible assets as if the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the periods presented. Results of operations for the combined company, in dollars and as a percentage of net revenue, were as follows: For the following years ended October 31 Dollars in millions 2002 2001 Net revenue $ 72,346 100.0 % $ 81,105 100.0 % Gross margin 18,336 25.3 % 19,730 24.3 % Research and development 3,890 5.4 % 4,115 5.1 % Selling, general and administrative 11,455 15.7 % 12,709 15.6 % Restructuring charges 1,780 2.5 % 1,040 1.3 % In process research and development charges 793 1.1 % 35 Acquisition related charges 772 1.1 % 33 Amortization of purchased intangible assets and goodwill 664 0.9 % 698 0.9 % (Loss) earnings from operations (1,018 ) (1.4 )% 1,100 1.4 % Interest and other, net 20 294 0.4 % Net (loss) gain on divestitures (53 ) (0.1 )% Net investment (losses) gains (100 ) (0.1 )% (2,603 ) (3.2 )% Litigation settlements 14 (400 ) (0.5 )% (Loss) earnings before extraordinary item and cumulative effect of change in accounting principles and taxes (1,084 ) (1.5 )% (1,662 ) (2.0 )% (Benefit from) provision for taxes (136 ) (0.2 )% (617 ) (0.7 )% Net (loss) earnings before extraordinary item and cumulative effect of change in accounting principles (948 ) (1.3 )% (1,045 ) (1.3 )% Extraordinary item gain on early extinguishment of debt, net of taxes 20 56 0.1 % Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, net of taxes (492 ) (0.6 )% Net (loss) earnings $ (928 ) (1.3 )% $ (1,481 ) (1.8 )% 33  Net Revenue On a combined company basis, net revenue declined 11% in fiscal 2002 to $72.3 billion. U.S. revenue declined 8% in fiscal 2002 to $29.1 billion, while international revenue decreased 13% to $43.2 billion. Ongoing weakness in the global economy and a competitive environment contributed significantly to the decline in both U.S. and international revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations did not have a material impact on HPs consolidated combined company revenue in fiscal 2002 due to relatively stable exchange rates of the significant foreign currencies in which we generated revenue during the period. In fiscal 2002, combined company net revenue declined in each of our business segments, except IPG, compared to fiscal 2001. Net revenue decreased primarily in PSG, which declined 18%, and ESG, which declined 20%, while HPS declined 3% and HPFS declined 2%. These decreases were offset in small part by IPG, which increased 4%. In fiscal 2002, on a weighted basis, the PC business (both desktop and notebook PCs) accounted for 5 percentage points, servers (both industry standard servers and business critical servers) accounted for 4 percentage points, and consulting and integration, storage, personal appliances and printer hardware each accounted for 1 percentage point of the overall 11% net revenue decrease. These decreases were partially offset by a 2 percentage point increase, on a weighted basis, in printer supplies. Overall, combined company net revenue for fiscal 2002 was impacted negatively by a decline in sales volumes across many product categories due to the ongoing global economic downturn and a competitive environment. A shift in sales mix to lower priced products, particularly for printer hardware, the PC business, industry standard servers and workstations, also contributed to the decrease in revenue. Additionally, the decline in revenue reflected a consolidation of product offerings as a result of post acquisition product roadmap decisions in industry standard servers, commercial PCs, storage and personal appliances. These declines were mitigated in part by net revenue growth in printer supplies resulting from a rise in volume due to continued expansion of the printer hardware installed base. Gross Margin Combined company gross margin as a percentage of combined company net revenue was 25.3% in fiscal 2002 compared to 24.3% in fiscal 2001. The increase in gross margin for fiscal 2002 was the result primarily of improved gross margins in IPG and, to a lesser extent, PSG. These improvements were partially offset by a gross margin decrease in ESG. Of the 1.0 percentage point increase in the combined company gross margin for fiscal 2002, on a weighted basis, IPG products accounted for 2 percentage points of the increase while PSG products accounted for 0.5 percentage points of the increase on a weighted basis. These improvements were partially offset by a 1.5 percentage point decrease, on a weighted basis, in the gross margin from ESG products. The gross margin improvement in IPG products was the result of manufacturing efficiencies and favorable currency impacts, primarily on yen based component procurement contracts, as well as approximately $290 million lower inventory and fixed asset charges relative to fiscal 2001. The overall gross margin increase was also attributable to a mix shift toward printer supplies, which have gross margins that are higher than the company average. Gross margin improvement in PSG products resulted from strong demand for higher margin retail notebook PCs. The gross margin deterioration in ESG products primarily reflected obsolescence and unabsorbed fixed costs for industry standard servers 34 due to product roadmap decisions. Additionally, our server categories were impacted unfavorably by competitive pricing and a mix shift to low end products. Operating Expenses Research and Development Combined company research and development expense as a percentage of combined company net revenue was 5.4% in fiscal 2002 compared to 5.1% in fiscal 2001. Research and development expense decreased by 5% in fiscal 2002. In fiscal 2002, research and development expense decreased in each of our business segments, except for IPG, which increased by 9%. This increase in research and development spending was a result of continued investment in printer hardware, supplies and digital imaging products. Overall, the decrease in research and development expense in fiscal 2002 was the result primarily of our workforce reduction efforts and expense control measures, moderated by higher company performance bonuses relative to fiscal 2001. Selling, General and Administrative Combined company selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of combined company net revenue was 15.7% in fiscal 2002 and 15.6% in fiscal 2001. Selling, general and administrative expense decreased by 10% in fiscal 2002. Overall, the decrease in selling, general and administrative expense in fiscal 2002 was attributable mainly to our workforce reduction efforts, expense control measures and lower bad debt expense, partially offset by higher company performance bonuses relative to fiscal 2001. Restructuring Charges On a combined company basis, we recorded restructuring charges of $1.8 billion in fiscal 2002 and $1.0 billion in fiscal 2001. A discussion of the fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 charges recorded by HP is included in the historical results presentation above. In fiscal 2001, in addition to the charges recorded by HP, Compaqs management approved restructuring plans to realign its organization and reduce operating costs. Compaq implemented significant changes in its business model and supply chain operations. These actions were designed to simplify product offerings, derive greater internal operating efficiencies, lower order cycle time, reduce channel inventory and improve account and order management. Compaq also consolidated certain functions within its global business units and reduced administrative functions. Accordingly, Compaq planned to terminate approximately 8,500 employees worldwide in connection with the plans. Restructuring charges of $656 million were expensed in fiscal 2001. During December 2001, Compaq reversed excess reserves of $68 million for employee separation costs accrued in conjunction with the fiscal 2001 plans and expensed an additional charge of approximately the same amount for additional reductions of 1,400 employee positions as approved by management to help it better meet its objectives of realigning its organization and reducing operating costs. Employee separation benefits under each plan were similar and included severance, medical and other benefits. Employee separations under the fiscal 2001 plans were substantially completed by March 31, 2002. In Process Research and Development Charges As discussed above in the historical results presentation, in fiscal 2002, HP recorded IPR&D charges totaling $793 million in connection with the acquisitions of Compaq and Indigo. In fiscal 2001, 35 HP recorded IPR&D charges of $35 million, related primarily to our middleware and storage virtualization product offering acquisitions. Acquisition Related Charges In connection with the Compaq acquisition, the combined company incurred acquisition related charges of $772 million in fiscal 2002, which consisted primarily of costs incurred for employee retention bonuses, advertising, proxy solicitation costs, consulting services and other professional fees. Acquisition related charges were $33 million in fiscal 2001 and related primarily to the unsuccessful bid for the PricewaterhouseCoopers consulting business and Compaq acquisition related charges. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets and Goodwill Goodwill related to acquisitions that occurred prior to July 1, 2001 and purchased intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally two to ten years. On a combined company basis, amortization expense was $664 million in fiscal 2002 and $698 million in fiscal 2001. Goodwill related to acquisitions that occurred after June 30, 2001 is not amortized in accordance with SFAS No. 142. Post Retirement Benefit Costs Future effects of post retirement benefit plans on our operating results depend on a number of factors, including our assumptions of health care cost trend rates, salary growth, long term return on plan assets and discount rates. Changes to our assumptions as of October 31, 2002 include a decrease in the long term rate of return on assets, a decrease in the discount rate, a decrease in the average rate of salary increases and an increase in health care cost trend rates. We expect the addition of pre acquisition Compaq employees to our pension and post retirement benefit plans on January 1, 2003, the difference between actual portfolio performance and historical assumptions, changes to assumptions at October 31, 2002 and the convergence of Compaqs existing plans to HPs accounting policies to result in an overall increase in our net periodic pension and post retirement benefit costs of approximately $400 million in fiscal 2003 on a combined company basis. Interest and Other, Net On a combined company basis, interest and other, net decreased $274 million in fiscal 2002. In addition to the items discussed in the historical results above, interest and other, net declined an additional $155 million on a combined company basis primarily due to higher interest income earned in the prior year associated with Compaqs investment activities in fiscal 2001. Net (Loss) Gain on Divestitures In fiscal 2001, on a combined company basis, we incurred a net loss on divestures of $53 million, as more fully discussed in the historical results presentation above. Net Investment (Losses) Gains On a combined company basis, net investment losses were $100 million in fiscal 2002 and $2.6 billion in fiscal 2001. In addition to the items discussed in the historical results presentation above, the fiscal 2001 loss included $2.1 billion of impairment charges associated with Compaqs investments, including a $1.8 billion impairment in CMGI, Inc. that was judged to have experienced an other than temporary decline in value. 36 Litigation Settlements In fiscal 2002 we recorded a litigation settlement gain of $14 million and, in fiscal 2001 we recorded a litigation settlement expense of $400 million, as more fully discussed above in the historical results presentation. (Benefit from) Provision for Taxes On a combined company basis, HPs effective tax rate was a benefit of 13% in fiscal 2002 and 37% in fiscal 2001. HPs effective tax rate differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% in fiscal 2002 due to the impact of non deductible items, primarily IPR&D, goodwill and acquisition related costs. Extraordinary Item The extraordinary item of $20 million in fiscal 2002 and $56 million in fiscal 2001 reflects the gain on the early extinguishment of debt under our repurchase program for our zero coupon subordinated convertible notes due in 2017. This program is more fully described in the historical results discussion above. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles As discussed above in the historical results presentation, fiscal 2001 includes a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $272 million in connection with HPs adoption of SAB 101 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, retroactive to November 1, 2000. The remaining balance of the cumulative effect of change in accounting principles in fiscal 2002 was the result of Compaqs adoption in January 2001 of EITF Issue No. 01 9, "Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer or a Reseller of the Vendors Products," which was issued by the EITF in November 2001. Compaqs adoption of EITF Issue No. 01 9 resulted in a change in method of accounting for certain sales incentive offerings. Historically, Compaq recognized certain incentives at the time an obligation was incurred, which generally occurred upon completion of qualifying sales transactions by Compaqs direct or indirect customers. EITF Issue No. 01 9 requires such discounts to be recognized at the later of the date the sales incentive is offered or the date at which the related revenue is recognized. The effects of adopting EITF Issue No. 01 9 have been included in the combined company results beginning January 1, 2001. Segment Information Segment financial data for the years ended October 31, 2001 and 2000 has been restated to reflect changes in HPs organizational structure and allocation methodology that occurred in the first and third quarters of fiscal 2002. These changes included: the movement of the PC business and workstations from the Computing Systems segment to PSG; the movement of servers, storage and software from Computing Systems to ESG; and the movement of personal appliances from All Other to PSG. In addition, HPFS was moved from the IT Services segment to a separate reporting segment. The remaining businesses of IT Services became HPS. The acquisition of Compaq did not result in additional reporting segments. A detailed description of the products and services, as well as financial data, for each segment can be found in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The four principal reportable segments disclosed in this document are based on HPs management organizational structure as of October 31, 2002. Separate segment reporting has also been included for HPFS, which is included in ESGs organizational structure, due to the distinct nature of this business. 37 Future changes to this organizational structure may result in changes to the reportable segments disclosed. Historical Results The historical results discussions below include the historical results of each of HPs segments in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, including Compaqs results of operations from May 3, 2002 (the acquisition date). The fluctuations in the segment operating results of HP in fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 were due generally to the acquisition of Compaq and, as such, are not discussed in detail. A supplementary discussion of operating results by segment in fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 is provided in the discussion of combined company operating results presented after the historical results discussions. Combined Company Results Consistent with the supplemental disclosures included in the consolidated operating results discussion, the combined company segment results discussions include the results of each of HPs segments in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 as if the acquisition of Compaq had occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2001. As previously discussed, we have included this additional information in order to provide further insight into our segment operating results, prior period trends and current position. Due to different historical fiscal period ends for HP and Compaq, the segment results for the year ended October 31, 2002 combine the results of HP for the year ended October 31, 2002 and the historical quarterly results of Compaq for the six month period ended March 31, 2002 and for the period May 3, 2002 (the acquisition date) to October 31, 2002. The segment results for the year ended October 31, 2001 combine the historical results of HP for the year ended October 31, 2001 and the historical quarterly results of Compaq for the twelve month period ended September 30, 2001. Imaging and Printing Group Historical Results Historical Results For the following years ended October 31 Dollars in millions 2002 2001 2000 Net revenue $ 20,324 $ 19,426 $ 20,346 Earnings from operations $ 3,249 $ 1,869 $ 2,523 Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue 16.0 % 9.6 % 12.4 % The acquisition of Compaq did not have a material impact on the results of IPG. A detailed discussion of IPGs fiscal 2002 results is presented below in the combined company discussion. IPGs net revenue declined 5% in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000. Of the overall 5% net revenue decrease in fiscal 2001, business and home printer hardware revenue represented 4.5 and 4.0 percentage points, respectively, of the decline on a weighted basis, partially offset by 3.5 percentage points of growth on a weighted basis in printer supplies. Overall, slowing markets across all product categories and geographic regions due to the economic downturn negatively impacted revenue in fiscal 2001. The decline in printer hardware net revenue in fiscal 2001 was attributable to a decrease in average selling prices driven by a continuing demand shift to lower priced printer products, particularly into the sub $150 printer hardware market, and a competitive pricing environment. The decline in printer hardware net revenue also reflected a drop in units due mainly to softening in both the 38 consumer and business markets. Partially offsetting the decline in printer hardware revenue was growth in printer supplies. The revenue growth for printer supplies reflected a rise in volumes due to continued expansion of the printer hardware installed base and higher average selling prices. Revenue growth in printer supplies in fiscal 2001 was dampened by the economic downturn. Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue was 9.6% in fiscal 2001 compared to 12.4% in fiscal 2000. A decline in gross margin accounted for 2.1 percentage points of the 2.8 percentage point decrease in the earnings from operations ratio in fiscal 2001, while the remaining decline was due to an increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The overall segment gross margin decline was due to gross margin decreases in printer hardware and digital imaging products. These gross margin decreases resulted mainly from the continued shift in sales mix to lower priced products. Gross margins in these categories were further impacted unfavorably by an increase in inventory related reserves and charges in our Inkjet and imaging businesses as well as charges related to the cancellation of planned production line expansion in our Inkjet business that occurred in response to weakened economic conditions. These incremental reserves and charges totaled $214 million in fiscal 2001. The gross margin declines in printer hardware and imaging were moderated primarily by lower component costs due to a weaker Japanese yen and by supplies, which typically have gross margins that exceed the segment average, becoming a larger portion of the segments product mix. Although operating expenses decreased slightly in total, operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue for the segment increased compared to the prior year as the decrease in revenue exceeded the rate of decrease in operating expenses. Imaging and Printing Group Combined Company Results Combined Company Results For the following years ended October 31 Dollars in millions 2002 2001 Net revenue $ 20,326 $ 19,470 Earnings from operations $ 3,248 $ 1,876 Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue 16.0 % 9.6 % IPGs combined company net revenue grew 4% in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001. Of the overall 4% revenue increase in fiscal 2002, printer supplies represented 6.5 percentage points of growth on a weighted basis, partially offset by business and home printer hardware, which contributed 1.5 and 1.0 percentage points of revenue decline, respectively, on a weighted basis. Despite continued market weakness, the segment had revenue growth across all regions. Growth in printer supplies revenue in fiscal 2002 reflected higher volumes as a result of continued expansion of the printer hardware installed base. The revenue decline in business printer hardware was due mainly to the continued shift in demand to lower priced products, particularly in the sub $1,000 laser market. The revenue decrease in home printer hardware was attributable mainly to a decline in average selling prices driven by a continued shift in demand to lower priced products, particularly in the sub $100 home printer hardware market, moderated by increased sales of higher priced all in one products and sales of newly introduced products as part of the segments "Big Bang" consumer launch. Combined company earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue was 16.0% for fiscal 2002 compared to 9.6% in fiscal 2001. The 6.4 percentage point increase was due almost entirely to an improvement in gross margin. The increase in gross margin was driven by gross margin improvements in supplies and printer hardware. Manufacturing efficiencies and favorable currency impacts, primarily 39 on yen based component procurement contracts for supplies and business and home printer hardware, contributed the majority of the gross margin improvement on a weighted basis. The segment gross margin also was impacted favorably by supplies, which typically have gross margins that exceed the segment average, becoming a greater percentage of total segment revenue, and from a mix shift toward higher margin, multi function products within home printer hardware. Lower inventory and fixed asset write downs compared to fiscal 2001 of approximately $290 million further contributed to the overall segment gross margin improvement. Personal Systems Group Historical Results Historical Results For the following years ended October 31 Dollars in millions 2002 2001 2000 Net revenue $ 14,733 $ 10,117 $ 12,008 (Loss) earnings from operations $ (401 ) $ (412 ) $ 335 (Loss) earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue (2.7 )% (4.1 )% 2.8 % The fluctuations in PSGs operating results in fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 were due substantially to the acquisition of Compaq. Although the acquisition of Compaq resulted in an increase in unit sales, average selling prices in fiscal 2002 were impacted unfavorably by the continued competitive pricing environment. The loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue improved due to an increase in gross margin as well as a decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. A supplementary discussion of PSGs fiscal 2002 results as compared to fiscal 2001 is presented below in the combined company discussion. PSGs net revenue declined 16% in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000. Of the overall 16% revenue decrease in fiscal 2001, commercial desktop PCs, consumer desktop PCs and personal appliances accounted for 7.0, 6.0 and 3.0 percentage points, respectively, of the decline on a weighted basis. In addition, a decline in revenue from workstations was offset by growth in retail notebook PCs. Overall, segment net revenue in fiscal 2001 was impacted unfavorably by the economic downturn resulting in slowing markets across most product categories and geographic regions. The decline in fiscal 2001 net revenue within the PC business resulted from revenue decreases in commercial and consumer desktop PCs, offset in part by growth in retail notebook PCs. In fiscal 2001, net revenue in the PC business was impacted negatively by declining average selling prices as a result of decreasing component costs, which are generally passed on to the customer, and a competitive pricing environment. The revenue decline in commercial desktop PCs reflected both a decrease in volumes and an ongoing decrease in average selling prices. Consumer desktop PC revenue decreased due to a decline in volumes and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in average selling prices. The decline in unit sales in both commercial and consumer desktop PCs reflected the effects of the economic slowdown in fiscal 2001. In addition, a continued shift toward mobile computing dampened growth in desktop PCs, while consumer PC revenue also was impacted unfavorably by market saturation that began late in fiscal 2000. Retail notebook PC revenue increased mainly as a result of higher unit sales largely as a result of the previously noted shift toward mobile computing; however, this growth was moderated by an ongoing decline in average selling prices. The decline in personal appliance revenue was driven by the CD writer business that was impacted negatively by a decline in unit sales and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in average selling prices reflecting competitive pricing pressures and a mix shift to the low end. Market saturation and competitive pricing pressures associated with the CD writer business resulted in a decision to exit this business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001. Revenue from 40 workstations decreased as a result of the decline in IT spending and a mix shift from UNIX&reg; workstations to lower priced industry standard machines. Loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue was 4.1% in fiscal 2001 compared to earnings from operations of 2.8% in fiscal 2000. An increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue accounted for 3.5 percentage points of the 6.9 percentage point decrease in the earnings from operations ratio in fiscal 2001, while the remaining 3.4 percentage point net decrease was due to a decline in gross margin. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue was attributable mainly to investment in research and development activities, particularly in the personal appliances business. The gross margin decline for the segment reflected declines in commercial and consumer desktop PCs as well as personal appliances. The gross margin decline within the PC business accounted for approximately half of the segment gross margin decline on a weighted basis and resulted from the effects of the overall PC market slowdown. The personal appliance gross margin decrease accounted for the remainder of the overall segment gross margin deterioration and was due mainly to the decline in revenue discussed above, coupled with inventory reserve charges taken as a result of the market saturation of personal appliances, particularly CD writers. Personal Systems Group Combined Company Results Combined Company Results For the following years ended October 31 Dollars in millions 2002 2001 Net revenue $ 21,962 $ 26,800 Loss from operations $ (532 ) $ (977 ) Loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue (2.4 )% (3.6 )% PSGs combined company net revenue declined 18% in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001. Of the overall 18% revenue decrease, consumer desktop PCs, commercial desktop PCs and commercial notebook PCs accounted for 7.0, 6.5 and 3.0 percentage points, respectively, of the decline on a weighted basis, while personal appliances and workstations accounted for 2.0 and 1.0 percentage points, respectively, of the decrease. The net revenue decline was offset slightly by revenue growth in retail notebook PCs of 1.5 percentage points on a weighted basis. Net revenue was impacted unfavorably by continued softened demand reflecting the ongoing economic downturn. The combined company net revenue decline within the PC business for fiscal 2002 reflected revenue decreases in consumer and commercial desktop PCs and commercial notebook PCs. The net revenue decline was moderated by growth in sales of retail notebook PCs. Net revenue in the PC business was impacted negatively by declining average selling prices resulting from a continued competitive pricing environment. The revenue decrease in consumer desktop PCs was fueled by a decline in unit sales and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in average selling prices. The decline in unit sales was due to weakened economic conditions across all regions. The revenue decline in commercial desktop PCs was the result of a decrease in average selling prices and, to a lesser extent, a decline in unit sales. The decrease in unit sales was attributable to a continued shift toward mobile computing, as well as the execution of post acquisition product roadmap decisions, including the discontinuance of the HP Vectra line. The HP Vectra wind down also unfavorably impacted average selling prices as incentives were offered to sell remaining inventory. The commercial notebook PC revenue decline was attributable to decreasing average selling prices. Retail notebook PC revenue growth reflected an increase in unit sales, resulting from the previously mentioned shift toward mobile computing, 41 moderated by decreasing average selling prices. Personal appliance revenue declined due to our exit from the CD writer business and transition into the DVD+RW market, as well as our product roadmap decision to cancel the Jornada handheld product line. The workstations revenue decline was driven by a decrease in average selling prices, reflecting a mix shift from UNIX&reg; workstations to lower priced Windows&reg; NT workstations, partially offset by an increase in unit sales of Windows&reg; NT workstations. The unfavorable effects of a transition into a new product line moderated the volume increase in Windows&reg; NT workstations. The combined company loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue was 2.4% for fiscal 2002 compared to 3.6% for fiscal 2001. An improvement in gross margin represented 0.6 percentage points of the 1.2 percentage point decrease in the loss from operations ratio, while the remaining 0.6 percentage point decrease was the result of a decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. The gross margin improvement was driven by consumer PCs and personal appliances, partially offset by gross margin declines, primarily in commercial PCs. The gross margin improvement in consumer PCs contributed the majority of the overall segment gross margin increase on a weighted basis and resulted primarily from strong demand for retail notebook PCs, which typically have higher margins than desktops. The improvement in personal appliances also contributed to the gross margin improvement for the segment on a weighted basis and was attributable to lower inventory reserve charges compared to fiscal 2001. Moderating the overall segment gross margin improvement was a decline in the commercial PC gross margin. The gross margin decline in commercial PCs reflected declining average selling prices due to competitive pricing pressures, particularly on end of life product transitions. The decrease in the operating expense ratio was attributable to cost control measures and cost savings achieved by the workforce reductions initiated in fiscal 2001. Enterprise Systems Group Historical Results Historical Results For the following years ended October 31 Dollars in millions 2002 2001 2000 Net revenue $ 11,400 $ 8,395 $ 9,628 (Loss) earnings from operations $ (968 ) $ (291 ) $ 660 (Loss) earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue (8.5 )% (3.5 )% 6.9 % The fluctuations in ESGs operating results in fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 were due substantially to the acquisition of Compaq. Although unit sales increased due to the acquisition of Compaq, average selling prices were impacted unfavorably in fiscal 2002 by continued competitive pricing pressures and a continued mix shift to the low end products. The increase in the loss from operations ratio was partly attributable to declines in gross margin due to pricing factors discussed earlier, coupled with inventory charges and unabsorbed fixed costs related to the Net Server line resulting from our product roadmap decisions. A supplementary discussion of ESGs fiscal 2002 results as compared to fiscal 2001 is presented below in the combined company discussion. ESGs net revenue declined 13% in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000. Of the overall 13% revenue decrease in fiscal 2001, on a weighted basis, business critical servers and industry standard servers accounted for 6.0 and 5.5 percentage points of the decline, while storage contributed 1.5 percentage points to the decrease. Overall segment net revenue in fiscal 2001 was impacted unfavorably by the economic downturn resulting in slowing markets across all product categories and geographic regions. 42 The decrease in business critical server net revenue in fiscal 2001 was due primarily to mid range UNIX&reg; servers, which were impacted negatively by the enterprise market slowdown and competitive pricing pressures. The business critical server revenue decline also resulted from a decrease in high end UNIX&reg; server revenue which reflected the slowdown in enterprise capital spending and the fact that Superdome did not begin shipping in volume until January 2001. The decline in high end UNIX&reg; server revenue in fiscal 2001 was entirely offset by growth in the low end UNIX&reg; server category. The revenue decline in industry standard servers was driven by a sales mix shift toward low end products, ongoing competitive pricing pressures and delayed product launches in fiscal 2001. The storage revenue decline was attributable to the decline in IT spending. Loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue was 3.5% in fiscal 2001 compared to earnings from operations of 6.9% in fiscal 2000. An increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue accounted for 8.6 percentage points of the 10.4 percentage point decrease in the earnings from operations ratio in fiscal 2001, while the remaining 1.8 percentage point decrease was due to a decline in gross margin. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was attributable to lower revenue coupled with an increase in operating expenses. The increase in operating expenses reflected significant hiring in the sales organizations in fiscal 2001 in anticipation of growth in key areas, particularly UNIX&reg; servers, software and storage, which did not materialize due to weakened economic conditions. In addition, the segment invested in research and development activities, primarily for server products. Half of the segment gross margin decline was attributable to industry standard servers, while the remaining half was due to gross margin declines in storage and business critical servers. The server and storage gross margin declines were driven by lower volumes and competitive pricing pressures. Enterprise Systems Group Combined Company Results Combined Company Results For the following years ended October 31 Dollars in millions 2002 2001 Net revenue $ 16,449 $ 20,486 (Loss) earnings from operations $ (912 ) $ 279 (Loss) earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue (5.5 )% 1.4 % ESGs combined company net revenue declined 20% in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001. Of the overall 20% revenue decrease in fiscal 2002, industry standard servers, business critical servers and storage accounted for 9.5, 6.5 and 3.0 percentage points, respectively, of the decline on a weighted basis, while software contributed the remaining 1.0 percentage point of the decrease. Overall segment revenue in fiscal 2002 was impacted unfavorably by weak demand in the enterprise market due to the continuing effects of the economic downturn, competitive pricing pressures, and cautious technology spending across all product categories and geographical regions. The combined company revenue decline in industry standard servers in fiscal 2002 resulted from a decrease in average selling prices and, to a lesser extent, a decline in volumes. The decrease in average selling prices was due to continued competitive pricing pressures and a continued mix shift to low end products, as well as pricing incentives offered to accelerate installed base conversions to the Proliant server line due to post acquisition product roadmap decisions. Weak economic conditions contributed to the decline in volumes. The decline in volumes was most pronounced in the retiring NetServer line, with Proliant volumes remaining strong. The revenue decrease in business critical servers for fiscal 2002 43 was attributable to declines in all of the server categories, including AlphaServers, NonStop servers and UNIX&reg; servers. The revenue decline across the business critical server products reflected the ongoing decline in enterprise capital spending, competitive pricing pressures and weak spending in the telecommunications and financial services industries. Storage revenue declined in fiscal 2002 due to continued weakness in IT spending and declines in UNIX&reg; and industry standard servers, as well as product roadmap modifications in mid and high end arrays and tape libraries. Software revenue was impacted unfavorably by the continued decline of enterprise IT spending, weakness in the telecommunications markets, and the decision to exit selected middleware assets in the third quarter of fiscal 2002. The combined company loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue was 5.5% for fiscal 2002 compared to earnings from operations of 1.4% for fiscal 2001. An increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue represented 3.9 percentage points of the 6.9 percentage point decrease in the earnings from operations ratio for fiscal 2002, while a decline in gross margin accounted for the remaining 3.0 percentage point decrease. Although operating expense dollars decreased in fiscal 2002, operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue for the segment increased as the decrease in revenue exceeded the rate of operating expense declines. The increase in the operating expense ratio was moderated by cost control measures and cost savings achieved by the workforce reduction initiated in fiscal 2001. The majority of the gross margin decline in fiscal 2002 was driven by gross margin decreases in industry standard servers and storage. The gross margin deterioration in industry standard servers and storage reflected lower volumes of higher margin products and competitive pricing pressures. The gross margin decline in industry standard servers also was attributable to obsolescence and unabsorbed fixed costs associated with the wind down of the NetServer line, as well as a mix shift toward low end products, partially offset by a relative increase in direct fulfilled business, which has lower delivery costs. HP Services Historical Results Historical Results For the following years ended October 31 Dollars in millions 2002 2001 2000 Net revenue $ 9,095 $ 6,124 $ 5,730 Earnings from operations $ 1,022 $ 647 $ 578 Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue 11.2 % 10.6 % 10.1 % The fluctuations in HPS operating results in fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 were substantially due to the acquisition of Compaq. Despite the revenue growth attributable to Compaq, overall our consulting and integration and customer support businesses were impacted unfavorably by the global economic downturn and competitive pricing pressures in fiscal 2002; however, our managed services business benefited from the slowdown as customers reduced costs by outsourcing their IT infrastructure. Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased due to a shift in revenue mix away from the consulting and integration business, which typically has operating profit ratios lower than the segment average, along with expense control measures and workforce reduction initiatives. A supplementary discussion of HPS fiscal 2002 results as compared to fiscal 2001 is presented below in the combined company discussion. HPS net revenue increased 7% in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000. On a foreign currency adjusted basis, net revenue increased 13% in fiscal 2001 compared to the same period in fiscal 2000. Continued growth in customer support accounted for 3.0 percentage points of the segments 7% 44 revenue growth on a weighted basis, while growth in the consulting and integration business, which includes complementary third party products delivered with sales of HP solutions, contributed 2.5 percentage points on a weighted basis to the overall segment increase. Managed services accounted for the remaining 1.5 percentage points of growth, on a weighted basis. Overall, the customer support and consulting and integration businesses net revenue growth in fiscal 2001 was moderated by the global economic downturn, while our managed services business benefited from the slowdown as companies strived to reduce costs by outsourcing their IT infrastructure. Customer support net revenue growth in fiscal 2001 was attributable primarily to sales of mission critical and networking services, and to a lesser extent, strength in various other support services. Revenue growth in the consulting and integration business was fueled by an increased number of, as well as larger, engagements, reflecting strong demand from the financial services and telecommunications industries. Growth in this business also resulted from an increase in engagements for manufacturing businesses, as well as growth in other types of consulting services. Net revenue growth in managed services was attributable to larger comprehensive deals and increased business as companies reduced costs by outsourcing their IT functions. Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue was 10.6% in fiscal 2001 compared to 10.1% in fiscal 2000. The increase in the fiscal 2001 operating profit ratio was driven by improvements in managed services and the consulting and integration business, which collectively accounted for 1.0 percentage points of the segment operating profit ratio growth on a weighted basis. The segment operating profit improvement was moderated by operating profit ratio deterioration in customer support, which contributed 0.6 percentage points of operating profit decline on a weighted basis. The improvement in the managed services operating profit ratio reflected increased process standardization and delivery efficiency, while the operating profit ratio increase in the consulting and integration business resulted from improved labor utilization and overall engagement cost management. The customer support operating profit ratio was impacted negatively by increased costs for support parts due to unfavorable currency effects and a mix shift toward lower margin services. HP Services Combined Company Results Combined Company Results For the following years ended October 31 Dollars in millions 2002 2001 Net revenue $ 12,411 $ 12,846 Earnings from operations $ 1,443 $ 1,586 Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue 11.6 % 12.3 % HPS combined company net revenue declined 3% in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001. Of the overall 3% net revenue decrease, the consulting and integration business, which includes complementary third party products delivered with sales of HP solutions, accounted for 5.0 percentage points of the decline on a weighted basis, partially offset by the managed services and customer support businesses, which contributed 1.5 and 0.5 percentage points of growth, respectively, on a weighted basis. Overall, our consulting and integration and customer support businesses were impacted unfavorably by the global economic downturn and competitive pricing pressures in fiscal 2002; however, our managed services business benefited from the slowdown as customers reduced costs by outsourcing their IT infrastructure. 45 The combined company revenue decline in the consulting and integration business in fiscal 2002 was attributable to a decline in core consulting and integration services and a decrease in sales of complementary third party products. The decline in consulting and integration revenue reflected weak demand and a slowdown in IT spending, particularly in the telecommunications industry, while the decrease in sales of complementary third party products resulted from the tightened focus of this business on customer critical solutions. The growth in managed services revenue in fiscal 2002 was driven by the ongoing mix shift toward larger comprehensive deals and increased business as customers outsourced substantial portions of their IT infrastructure to HP. The growth in customer support revenue was attributable to solid demand for storage services, mission critical services, network services and Windows&reg; environment services. Growth in customer support revenue was moderated by slower revenue growth in UNIX&reg; server support, reflecting a decrease in UNIX&reg; server revenue as a result of weak enterprise capital spending. Combined company earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue was 11.6% in fiscal 2002 compared to 12.3% for fiscal 2001. The decline in the fiscal 2002 operating profit ratio was shared primarily by the consulting and integration and managed services businesses. The operating profit ratio decrease in the consulting and integration business resulted from weakened demand coupled with a decline in consultant utilization. The managed services operating profit decline was attributable to lengthened selling cycles and higher pre sales costs due to a shift toward comprehensive outsourcing contracts. The overall segment operating profit ratio was further impacted negatively by engagement write offs reflecting customer acceptance issues, deteriorating economic conditions and an increase in infrastructure and shared services costs due to a convergence to resource usage rates based on the number of professionals in the segment. Moderating the segment gross margin decline was a mix shift away from the consulting and integration business, which typically has operating profit ratios that are lower than the segment average, along with expense control measures and workforce reduction initiatives. HP Financial Services Historical Results Historical Results For the following years ended October 31 Dollars in millions 2002 2001 2000 Net revenue $ 1,707 $ 1,454 $ 1,411 (Loss) earnings from operations $ (140 ) $ (179 ) $ 85 (Loss) earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue (8.2 )% (12.3 )% 6.0 % HPFS net revenue includes interest on financing receivables, rental payments on operating leases and sales of equipment after the expiration of their lease terms. The fluctuations in HPFS operating results in fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 were due substantially to the acquisition of Compaq. Despite the revenue growth attributable to the acquisition of Compaq, lease originations declined in fiscal 2002 due mainly to the decline in IT spending worldwide, moderating the segment revenue growth. The loss from operations as a percentage of revenue declined due to lower bad debt charges in fiscal 2002. A supplementary discussion of HPFS fiscal 2002 results as compared to fiscal 2001 is presented below in the combined company discussion. HPFS net revenue increased 3% in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000. The increase in revenue was driven by a mix shift in the portfolio toward operating leases. Revenue in fiscal 2001 also was impacted favorably by higher earning assets along with an increase in sales of equipment after the expiration of their lease terms. The revenue increase was moderated by a decrease in lease originations 46 in fiscal 2001, due mainly to the decline in IT spending as a result of the ongoing global economic downturn, as well as strengthened credit controls in response to this downturn. Loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue was 12.3% in fiscal 2001 compared to earnings from operations of 6.0% in fiscal 2000. The decline in the operating profit ratio was attributable mainly to an increase of $172 million in bad debt reserves and write offs in response to weakened economic conditions and the mix shift toward operating leases, which have lower margins. The operating profit ratio was also impacted unfavorably by write downs resulting from changes in residual value assumptions. HP Financial Services Combined Company Results Combined Company Results For the following years ended October 31 Dollars in millions 2002 2001 Net revenue $ 2,088 $ 2,126 (Loss) from operations $ (133 ) $ (164 ) (Loss) from operations as a percentage of net revenue (6.4 )% (7.7 )% HPFS combined company net revenue includes interest on financing receivables, rental payments on operating leases and sales of equipment after the expiration of their lease terms. HPFS net revenue declined 2% in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001. The decrease in revenue was driven by a decrease in lease originations during the year, due mainly to the decline in IT spending as a result of the ongoing global economic downturn and the related decrease in earning assets, as well as strengthened credit controls in response to this downturn. The revenue decrease was partially offset by an increase in revenue from equipment sales after the expiration of their lease terms and other mid term and end of term portfolio activities. Combined company loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue was 6.4% in fiscal 2002 compared to 7.7% in fiscal 2001. Although bad debt write offs and additions to the allowance were recorded in response to the ongoing global economic downturn in each of fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, these incremental charges were lower in fiscal 2002, resulting in the decrease in the loss from operations ratio in fiscal 2002. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The information discussed below is presented based on HPs historical results, which include the results of Compaq for the period following the May 3, 2002 closing date of the acquisition. At October 31, 2002, we held cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $11.4 billion compared to $4.3 billion at October 31, 2001. During fiscal 2002, net cash flows from operating activities and borrowings were used mainly to fund repayments of borrowings, purchases of property, plant and equipment, payments of dividends, repurchases of our common stock and for acquisition related expenditures. Cash flows from operating activities were $5.4 billion during fiscal 2002 compared to $2.6 billion for fiscal 2001 and $3.7 billion for fiscal 2000. The increase in cash flows from operations in fiscal 2002 resulted from higher earnings after adjusting for non cash items such as depreciation and amortization, the non cash portion of restructuring charges and IPR&D charges. The improvement in cash flows from operations also reflected the timing of payments on accounts payable, improved collections of our 47 trade and financing receivables and decreases in inventory. These improvements were partially offset by acquisition related expenditures, including cash payments for restructuring charges and retention bonuses. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities in fiscal 2001 resulted primarily from a decline in net earnings and timing of payments on accounts payable, partially offset by a decline in receivables and a decrease in inventory. Cash flows from investing activities were $3.1 billion in fiscal 2002 compared to cash flows used in investing activities of $561 million in fiscal 2001 and $1.4 billion in fiscal 2000. The increase in cash flows from investing activities in fiscal 2002 was related primarily to the $3.6 billion of net cash acquired in the Compaq transaction. In addition, we recorded $879 million upon the dissolution of our equity method investment in Liquidity Management Corporation ("LMC"), when it became a wholly owned subsidiary on November 1, 2001. Net capital expenditures were $1.3 billion in fiscal 2002, $1.1 billion in fiscal 2001 and $1.3 billion in fiscal 2000. Capital expenditures related primarily to financing assets and manufacturing investments across our businesses. At October 31, 2001, we held a 49.5% equity interest in LMC, which was accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The remaining 50.5% of equity interest was held by a third party investor. On November 1, 2001, LMC redeemed the outstanding equity of the third party investor, leaving us as the remaining shareholder of LMC. Accordingly, effective November 1, 2001, the assets, liabilities and results of operations of LMC have been included in our consolidated financial statements. At November 1, 2001, the assets of LMC consisted primarily of $879 million of cash and cash equivalents. Trade accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 42 at October 31, 2002 compared to 37 at October 31, 2001. The increase was due primarily to a change in the composition of our receivables balance resulting from the Compaq acquisition. For the most part, this change in composition was the result of fewer early payment incentives and longer payment terms in Compaqs sales agreements. Annualized inventory turns were 9.1 at October 31, 2002 compared to 6.2 at October 31, 2001. The improvement is partially the result of the acquisition of Compaq, which operated in businesses that require lower levels of inventories, as well as the result of active inventory management. We currently expect to fund expenditures for capital requirements as well as liquidity needs from a combination of available cash balances, internally generated funds and financing arrangements. We invest excess cash in short and long term investments, depending on our projected cash needs for operations, capital expenditures and other business purposes. We also supplement our internally generated cash flow with a combination of short and long term borrowings. Short term borrowings include issuances under our $4 billion commercial paper program established in December 2000 and under our $500 million euro commercial paper/certificate of deposit program established in May 2001. At January 17, 2003 we had approximately $1.2 billion of commercial paper outstanding. Short and long term net borrowings in fiscal 2002 used cash of $472 million, as payments on short and long term debt and repurchases of our zero coupon subordinated convertible notes were partially offset by short term and long term debt issuances, including the issuance of $1.5 billion of Global Notes in June 2002 and the issuance of $1.0 billion of Global Notes in December 2001. Long term debt totaling $472 million matured as scheduled in fiscal 2002. In fiscal 2001, short and long term net borrowings generated cash of $277 million, as short term and long term debt issuances, including the issuance of $636 million (based on the foreign exchange rate at the date of issuance) of Euro Medium Term Notes in July 2001, were partially offset by repurchases of our zero coupon subordinated convertible notes and payments on other long term debt. Long term debt totaling $290 million matured as scheduled in fiscal 2001. 48 We repurchase shares of our common stock under a systematic program to manage the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and for other opportunistic share repurchases. This plan authorizes purchases in the open market or in private transactions. In fiscal 2002, 39,623,000 shares were repurchased for an aggregate price of $671 million. As of January 17, 2003, we had authorization for remaining future repurchases of approximately $800 million. In fiscal 2001, 45,036,000 shares were repurchased for an aggregate price of $1.2 billion and in fiscal 2000, 96,978,000 shares were repurchased for an aggregate price of $5.6 billion. As a result of our restructuring plans, we expect future cash expenditures of approximately $1.4 billion, primarily for employee severance and other related benefits. The total cash expenditures are expected to be funded primarily from existing cash balances and cash flows generated from operations. Cash expenditures related to our restructuring plans are expected to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal 2003. Global capital market developments resulted in negative returns on our retirement benefit plan assets and a decline in the discount rates used to estimate the liability. As a result, we were required to record an after tax charge to equity in the amount of $379 million at October 31, 2002 related to the minimum pension liability. We currently anticipate a pension contribution of approximately $800 million in fiscal 2003. Acquisition of Compaq In May 2002, in connection with our acquisition of Compaq, all of the outstanding debt of Compaq was consolidated into our financial results. The face value of the Compaq debt consisted of $1.7 billion of commercial paper; $275 million of unsecured 7.45% Medium Term Notes, which matured on August 1, 2002; $300 million of unsecured 7.65% Medium Term Notes, which mature on August 1, 2005; $300 million of unsecured 6.2% Medium Term Notes, which mature on May 15, 2003; and $65 million of other debt (including debt issued by Digital Equipment Corporation), with interest rates ranging from 7.125% to 8.625%, which matures at various dates from March 15, 2004 through April 1, 2023. The outstanding Compaq debt has been assumed by HP. The entire balance of the Compaq commercial paper was paid off during the third quarter of fiscal 2002. The debt had an aggregate fair value of approximately $2.7 billion on the acquisition date. At January 17, 2003, the outstanding amount of the debt acquired in connection with the acquisition of Compaq was $642 million. As a result of the acquisition and associated credit rating changes, approximately $250 million of HPs debt due to CCF Charterhouse, now HSBC CCF, became subject to a put option whereby the debt became repayable at the option of HSBC CCF. On December 17, 2002, this put option was waived by HSBC CCF and was renegotiated such that the debt becomes repayable at HSBC CCFs election on September 29, 2003. Borrowings In March 2002, we replaced our $1.0 billion committed borrowing facility, which was due to expire in April 2002, with two senior unsecured credit facilities totaling $4.0 billion in borrowing capacity, including a $2.7 billion 364 day facility and a $1.3 billion three year facility (the "Credit Facilities"). Interest rates and other terms of borrowing under the Credit Facilities vary based on HPs external credit ratings. The Credit Facilities are generally available to support the issuance of commercial paper or for other corporate purposes. As of January 17, 2003, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facilities. We had approximately $1.2 billion of commercial paper outstanding under our programs at January 17, 2003. 49  In February 2002, we filed a shelf registration statement (the "2002 Shelf Registration Statement") with the SEC to register $3.0 billion of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants. The 2002 Shelf Registration Statement was declared effective in March 2002. In June 2002, we offered under the 2002 Shelf Registration Statement $1.0 billion of unsecured 5.5% Global Notes, which mature on July 1, 2007 unless previously redeemed. Also, in June 2002, HP offered under the 2002 Shelf Registration Statement $500 million of unsecured 6.5% Global Notes, which mature on July 1, 2012 unless previously redeemed. We may redeem some or all of either series of Global Notes at any time at redemption prices described in the prospectus supplement dated June 21, 2002. In December 2002, we filed a prospectus supplement to the 2002 Shelf Registration Statement, which allowed us to offer from time to time up to $1.5 billion of Medium Term Notes, Series B, due nine months or more from the date of issue, in addition to the other types of securities described above. As of January 17, 2003, we had capacity remaining to issue approximately $1.5 billion of securities under the 2002 Shelf Registration Statement. HP has the ability to offer from time to time up to $3.0 billion of Medium Term Notes under a Euro Medium Term Note Programme filed with the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. These notes can be denominated in any currency including the euro. However, these notes have not been and will not be registered in the United States. In July 2001, 750 million euro (or $636 million based on the exchange rate on the date of issuance) of 5.25% Medium Term Notes maturing on July 5, 2006 were issued under this program. As of January 17, 2003, we had capacity remaining to issue approximately $2.2 billion of Medium Term Notes under the program. In February 2000, we filed a shelf registration statement (the "2000 Shelf Registration Statement") with the SEC to register $3.0 billion of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants. The 2000 Shelf Registration Statement was declared effective in March 2000. In June 2000, we offered under the 2000 Shelf Registration Statement $1.5 billion of unsecured 7.15% Global Notes, which mature on June 15, 2005 unless previously redeemed. HP may redeem some or all of the 7.15% Global Notes at any time at the redemption prices described in the prospectus supplement dated June 6, 2000. In May 2001, we filed a prospectus supplement to the 2000 Shelf Registration Statement, which allowed us to offer from time to time up to $1.5 billion of Medium Term Notes, Series A, due nine months or more from the date of issue (the "Series A Medium Term Note Program"), in addition to the other types of securities described above. In December 2001, we offered under the 2000 Shelf Registration Statement $1.0 billion of unsecured 5.75% Global Notes, which mature on December 15, 2006 unless previously redeemed. During fiscal 2001, we issued an aggregate of $210 million of Medium Term Notes at variable rates maturing in 2003 and 2004 under the 2000 Shelf Registration Statement and Series A Medium Term Note Program. These Medium Term Notes had a weighted average interest rate of 2.13% during fiscal 2002. In December 2002, HP offered $200 million of 3.375% Series A Medium Term Notes (the "3.375% Notes"), which mature on December 15, 2005, and $50 million of 4.25% Series A Medium Term Notes (the "4.25% Notes") which mature on December 17, 2007. HP may redeem some or all of the 3.375% Notes or the 4.25% Notes at any time at the redemption prices described in the prospectus supplement dated June 6, 2000. We do not intend to issue additional securities under the 2000 Shelf Registration Statement. In October 1997, we issued $1.8 billion face value of zero coupon subordinated convertible notes for proceeds of $968 million, and in November 1997 we issued an additional $200 million face value of the notes for proceeds of $108 million. The notes are due in 2017. The notes are convertible by the holders at the rate of 15.09 shares of HPs common stock for each $1,000 face value of the notes, payable in either cash or common stock at HPs election. At any time, we may redeem the notes at 50 book value, payable in cash only. The notes are subordinated to all other existing and future senior indebtedness of HP. In December 2000, the Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program for the notes. Under the repurchase program, we have repurchased the notes from time to time at varying prices. In fiscal 2002, we repurchased $257 million in face value of the notes with a book value of $158 million for an aggregate purchase price of $127 million, resulting in an extraordinary gain on the early extinguishment of debt of $20 million (net of related taxes of $11 million). In fiscal 2001, we repurchased $1.2 billion in face value of the notes with a book value of $729 million for an aggregate purchase price of $640 million, resulting in an extraordinary gain on the early extinguishment of debt of $56 million (net of related taxes of $33 million). As of January 17, 2003, the notes had a remaining book value of $320 million. We also maintain various international lines of credit with a total capacity of $2.7 billion and various other short and long term borrowings from a number of financial institutions and institutional investors. There was approximately $375 million outstanding at January 17, 2003 under these borrowings. HP occasionally repurchases its debt prior to maturity based upon its assessment of current market conditions and financing alternatives. We do not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our debt, other than the HSBC CCF debt described above. However, a downgrade in our credit rating would increase the cost of our credit facilities. For example, a downgrade in our credit rating could limit, or in the case of a significant downgrade, preclude our ability to issue commercial paper under our current programs. Should this occur, we would seek alternative sources of funding, including the issuance of notes under our existing shelf registration statements and our Euro Medium Term Note Programme. In addition, we have the ability at our option to draw upon our senior unsecured credit facilities totaling $4.0 billion. The impact that our contractual obligations as of October 31, 2002 are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods is as follows: Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years Over 5 Years (In millions) Commercial paper(1) $ 537 $ 537 $ $ $ Other borrowings(1) 484 484 Long term debt(1) 6,679 743 2,109 2,802 1,025 Operating lease agreements(2) 2,118 493 683 420 522 Unconditional purchase obligations(3) 303 211 47 27 18 Other long term obligations(4) 352 178 127 11 36 Contingent value rights(5) 237 237 Employee retention bonuses(6) 316 316 Total $ 11,026 $ 2,962 $ 3,203 $ 3,260 $ 1,601 (1)Amounts represent the expected cash payments of our commercial paper, other borrowings and long term debt and do not include any fair value adjustments or bond premiums or discounts. (2)Operating lease obligations include $354 million related to certain car leases, of which $118 million is included in the "Less Than 1 Year" balance and $236 million is included in the "1 3 Years" balance. The entire balance of the lease obligation would become due immediately upon cancellation. 51 (3)Includes $130 million related to contract cancellation fees. Management believes it is unlikely that the affected contracts will be cancelled prior to their expiration date. (4)Amounts relate primarily to various sponsorship and alliance agreements. (5)Represents the maximum amount payable in connection with the acquisition of Indigo described below and in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. (6)Represents remaining retention bonuses to be paid to employees in conjunction with the acquisition of Compaq. As part of our ongoing business, HP does not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities ("SPEs"), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. In connection with the Compaq acquisition, HP acquired Compaqs interest in an SPE that was established in March 2001 to securitize leases. Compaq made an immaterial equity investment in an SPE and transferred $15 million of leases that were securitized as a loan. The term of the arrangement was 33 months, of which 15 months are remaining at October 31, 2002. The remaining principal payments due under this arrangement total approximately $6 million. The impact that our contingent liabilities and commitments as of October 31, 2002 could have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods is as follows: Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years Over 5 Years (In millions) Lines of credit extended to customers(1) $ 280 $ $ 260 $ 20 $ Funding commitments(2) 50 15 35 Guarantees 20 20 Other 13 13 Total $ 363 $ 15 $ 293 $ 20 $ 35 (1)Represents lines of credit extended to customers of the financing business. (2)Relates to equity investments. Amounts are due upon capital calls. Completed Acquisitions and Divestitures On May 3, 2002, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Compaq, a leading global provider of information technology products, services and solutions for enterprise customers, in exchange for 0.6325 shares of HP common stock for each outstanding share of Compaq common stock and the assumption of options to purchase Compaq common stock based on the same ratio. In addition, HP assumed certain Compaq stock plans. The acquisition of Compaq is intended to enhance HPs combined competitive position in key industries, while strengthening its sales force and relationships with strategic customer bases. The acquisition is intended to enable HP to focus on strategic product and customer bases, achieve significant cost synergies and economies of scale and improve results of our combined ESG, PSG and HPS businesses. Furthermore, these intended cost savings offer strategic benefits by potentially reducing HPs cost structure in competitive businesses such as PCs. This transaction resulted in the issuance of approximately 1.1 billion shares of HP common stock and the assumption of options to purchase shares of Compaq common stock, which became options to purchase approximately 52 200 million shares of HP common stock. The total consideration was approximately $24.2 billion, which included the fair value of HP common stock issued and Compaq options assumed, as well as direct transaction costs. The fair value of HP common stock was derived using an average market price per share of HP common stock of $20.92, which was based on an average of the closing prices for a range of trading days (August 30, August 31, September 4, and September 5, 2001) around the announcement date (September 3, 2001) of the acquisition. We have recorded approximately $14.5 billion of goodwill, $1.4 billion of a purchased intangible asset with an indefinite life and $3.5 billion of amortizable purchased intangible assets in conjunction with the acquisition based on an independent third party valuation. The amortizable purchased intangible assets will be amortized over their estimated weighted average useful lives of approximately nine years for customer contracts and lists and distribution agreements and approximately six years for developed and core technology and patents. In addition, we recorded a pre tax charge of approximately $735 million for IPR&D at the time of acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2002 because technological feasibility had not been established and no future alternative uses existed. In connection with the acquisition, management has reviewed the operations of the combined company and implemented several plans to restructure operations. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, costs totaling approximately $960 million that were accrued for severance, early retirement and other employee benefits related to pre acquisition Compaq employees, costs of vacating some facilities (leased or owned) and contracts of pre acquisition Compaq and other costs associated with exiting activities of pre acquisition Compaq were included in the purchase price. Costs totaling approximately $1.8 billion that were accrued for severance, early retirement and other employee benefits of pre acquisition HP employees, costs of vacating duplicative facilities (leased or owned) and contracts of pre acquisition HP, non inventory asset impairment charges and other costs associated with exiting activities of pre acquisition HP were expensed in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2002 and are included in "Restructuring charges" in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Results of operations of Compaq have been included prospectively from the date of acquisition. On December 27, 2002, the Compaq Board of Directors approved and adopted an agreement and plan of liquidation, pursuant to which, on December 31, 2002, Compaq assigned, and HP assumed, substantially all of the assets and liabilities of Compaq and Compaq transferred all of its employees to HP. Additionally, HP and Compaq agreed to merge Compaq with and into HP as promptly and reasonably practicable following the liquidating distribution. On March 22, 2002, we acquired substantially all of the outstanding stock of Indigo not previously owned by HP in exchange for HP common stock and non transferable contingent value rights ("CVRs") and the assumption of options to purchase Indigo common stock. This acquisition is intended to strengthen HPs printer offerings by adding high performance digital color printing systems. The total consideration for Indigo was $719 million, which included the fair value of HP common stock issued and Indigo options assumed, as well as direct transaction costs and the cost of an equity investment made by HP in Indigo in October 2000. Approximately 32 million shares of HP common stock and approximately 53 million CVRs were issued in connection with this transaction. We recorded approximately $499 million of goodwill and $153 million of amortizable purchased intangible assets in conjunction with the acquisition and the previous equity investment. The purchased intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from five to eight years. In addition, we recorded a pre tax charge of approximately $58 million for IPR&D at the time of acquisition in the second quarter of fiscal 2002 because technological feasibility had not been established and no future alternative uses existed. Results of operations for Indigo have been included prospectively from the date of the acquisition. 53 The CVRs issued in conjunction with this acquisition entitle each holder to a one time contingent cash payment of up to $4.50 per CVR, based on the achievement of certain cumulative revenue results over a three year period. The liability related to the CVRs will be recorded as additional goodwill as payout thresholds are achieved. The future cash pay out, if any, of the CVRs will be payable after a three year period commencing on April 1, 2002. In January 2001, HP acquired all of the outstanding stock of Bluestone Software, Inc. ("Bluestone") in exchange for HP common stock and assumption of Bluestone options. In September 2001, HP acquired all of the outstanding stock of StorageApps Inc. ("StorageApps") in exchange for HP common stock and assumption of StorageApps options. The total consideration for Bluestone was $531 million, and the total consideration for StorageApps was $319 million, each of which included the fair value of HP common stock issued and options assumed, as well as direct transaction costs. Each of these transactions was accounted for under the purchase method, and accordingly the results of operations of the acquired companies are included in our consolidated results of operations prospectively from the date of acquisition. In fiscal 2002, we recorded an impairment charge of $546 million for goodwill and purchased intangible assets due primarily to product roadmap decisions made in conjunction with the Compaq acquisition that led to the elimination of substantially all of our middleware and storage vitualization offerings. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information about all of these acquisitions. In fiscal 2001, the net proceeds from divestitures were $117 million resulting from the sale of our VeriFone, Inc. subsidiary and the sale to Ericsson of HPs remaining interest in the Ericsson HP Technology joint venture. In fiscal 2000, the net proceeds from divestitures were $448 million resulting from the sale of non strategic businesses, as well as the sale to Ericsson of part of HPs interest in the Ericsson HP Technology joint venture. Debt Ratios Our financing business is more dependent on the issuance of debt for the financing of its operations than our other businesses. Typically, a leasing business has higher leverage than an industrial or technology business given the lower risks of the leasing business assets. Although the vast majority of total outstanding debt was issued or assumed by HP and not by our finance subsidiary, one of the working capital needs of HP is to support intercompany loans to HPFS. Based on the leverage positions of other companies with financing businesses, we believe that it is appropriate to consider a portion of our external debt to be in support of our financing business. Accordingly, at October 31, 2002, we attribute approximately 77% of our total outstanding debt to this business. The analysis of the debt allocation and certain ratios are discussed below on both a financing and non financing basis. Financing business October 31 2002 2001 Dollars in millions Assets(1) $ 7,247 $ 5,010 Debt(2) $ 5,991 $ 4,140 Equity $ 1,256 $ 870 Debt/Equity 4.8x 4.8x (1)Financing business assets include financing receivables and assets under operating leases. (2)Financing business debt includes allocated debt issued or assumed by HP that generates the financing interest expense on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. 54 Non Financing business October 31 2002 2001 Dollars in millions Assets $ 63,463 $ 27,574 Debt(1) $ 1,837 $ 1,311 Equity $ 35,006 $ 13,083 Debt/Equity 0.1x 0.1x (1)Non financing business debt is our total debt issued or assumed by HP less the portion we have allocated to our financing business described in the financing business table above. Our non financing businesses generate significant cash from ongoing operations and therefore generally do not require a significant amount of debt to finance their operations, although debt may be used to finance working capital needs if it is not tax efficient to repatriate cash from other jurisdictions in a given period. Cash flows from operations are the primary source of funds for these businesses. FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margins and prospects. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and we compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, distribution, customer service and support. If our products, services and support do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, it could harm our operations, results and prospects. Further, we may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products, services and support to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margins. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margins and therefore our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product offering decisions, including our product roadmap decisions in connection with the Compaq acquisition, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. If we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services that meet customer requirements for performance and reliability, we may lose market share and our revenue may suffer. The process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers changing demands and emerging technological trends accurately and to develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property could significantly harm our results of operations. We must make long term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will eventually result in products and services that the market will accept. After a product is developed, we must be able to manufacture sufficient volumes quickly and at low costs. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, 55 mix of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed. Any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product could result in our not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. If we do not effectively manage our product and services transitions, our revenue may suffer. If we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenue may be seriously harmed. Among the factors that make a smooth transition difficult are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases in anticipation of new introductions and customer demand for the new offerings. Our revenue and gross margins also may suffer due to the timing of product or service introductions by our suppliers and competitors. This is especially challenging when a product has a short life cycle or a competitor introduces a new product just before our own product introduction. Furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of even a successful introduction. There may also be overlaps in the current products and services of HP and portfolios acquired through mergers and acquisitions, including portfolios acquired in the acquisition of Compaq, that must be managed. Given the competitive nature of our industry, if we incur delays in new introductions or do not accurately estimate the market effects of new introductions, future demand for our products and services and our revenue may be seriously harmed. Any failure by us to complete acquisitions and alliances successfully that enhance our strategic businesses and product lines and divest non strategic businesses and product lines could harm our financial results, business and prospects. As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding, and enter into agreements relating to, possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures in order to manage our product and technology portfolios and further our strategic objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable acquisition, alliance or divestiture candidates, complete these transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and integrate the acquired companies. Integration and other risks of acquisitions and strategic alliances can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, such as our acquisition of Compaq, or if multiple acquisitions are pursued simultaneously. However, if we fail to identify and complete these transactions, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material effect on our revenue and selling, general and administrative expenses. Integration issues are complex, time consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. The challenges involved in integration include: combining product offerings and preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers due to uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings and our willingness to support and service existing products, which could result in incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty; demonstrating to customers and distributors that the transaction will not result in adverse changes in client service standards or business focus and helping customers conduct business easily; 56 consolidating and rationalizing corporate IT infrastructure, including implementing information management and system processes that enable increased customer satisfaction, improved productivity, lower costs, more direct sales and improved inventory management; consolidating administrative infrastructure, including IT systems, and manufacturing operations and maintaining adequate controls throughout the integration; coordinating sales and marketing efforts to communicate our capabilities effectively; coordinating and rationalizing research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies with reduced cost; preserving distribution, marketing or other important relationships and resolving potential conflicts that may arise; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees while implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining operations, subsidiaries and affiliated entities, relationships and facilities, which may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws and regulations and also may result in contract terminations or renegotiations and labor and tax law implications; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent reorganizations. In May 2002, we completed our acquisition of Compaq, a leading provider of information technology products, services and solutions with operations worldwide and fiscal 2001 revenue of $33.6 billion, and we are in the process of integrating Compaq into our company. In addition to the Compaq transaction, we completed an exchange offer to acquire the outstanding shares of Indigo, a leading commercial and industrial printing systems company, in the second quarter of fiscal 2002. We evaluate and enter into other acquisition, alliance, joint venture and divestiture transactions on an ongoing basis. The number of pending transactions and the size and scope of the acquisition of Compaq increase both the scope and consequence of ongoing integration risks. We may not successfully address the integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits or synergies of the Compaq acquisition (which are principally associated with restructurings, including workforce reductions, procurement synergies and other operational efficiencies) or of any other transaction to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. Moreover, the timeframe for achieving benefits may be dependent partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. Even if an acquisition or alliance is successfully integrated or a business is successfully divested, we may not receive the expected benefits of the transaction. Managing acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures and divestitures requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. These transactions also have resulted and in the future may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings. In the case of the Compaq acquisition, these costs and expenses include those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under plans adopted in connection with the transaction. Moreover, we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization 57 expense over the useful lives of certain of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired in connection with the transaction, and, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with the transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. Also, any prior or future downgrades in our credit rating associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms, including increased borrowing costs, more restrictive covenants and the extension of less open credit. This in turn could affect our internal cost of capital estimates and therefore operational decisions. In addition, our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain and could exceed our currently reported tax rate and the weighted average of the pre acquisition tax rates of HP and Compaq. As a result of the foregoing, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment communitys expectations in a given quarter. Our revenue and selling, general and administrative expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. Generally we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, partners and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and products used in our operations. However, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or our intellectual property rights may not provide competitive advantages, which could significantly harm our business. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross licenses. Third parties also may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we do not believe that our products or business activities are infringing upon third parties intellectual property rights, the claims can be time consuming and costly to defend and divert managements attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay significant damage awards. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could suffer. In addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition transaction some of our intellectual property rights may be licensed to a third party that had not been licensed prior to the transaction or that certain restrictions could be imposed on our business that had not been imposed prior to the transaction. Consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these agreements. The economic downturn could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and expenses. Our revenue and gross margins depend significantly on the overall demand for computing and imaging products and services, particularly in the product and service segments in which we compete. Softening demand for our products and services caused by the ongoing economic downturn has resulted, and may result, in decreased revenue, earnings or growth rates and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and realize customer receivables. The global economy has weakened and market conditions continue to be challenging. As a result, individuals and companies are delaying or 58 reducing expenditures, including those for information technology. In addition, if our customers experience financial difficulties, we could suffer losses associated with the outstanding portion of accounts receivable, be exposed to the risks that lessees will be unable to make required lease payments and that leased equipment will be worth less upon its return to us than was estimated at lease inception. We have observed the effects of the global economic downturn in many areas of our business. The downturn has contributed to reported net revenue declines during fiscal 2001 and on a combined company basis in fiscal 2002. During the current downturn, we also have experienced gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of competitive pressures as well as inventory writedowns and charges associated with the cancellation of planned production line expansion. Our selling, general and administrative expenses have been impacted due in part to an increase in bad debt write offs and additions to reserves in our receivables portfolio. The economic downturn also has led to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Further delays or reductions in information technology spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and consequently our results of operations, prospects and stock price. Terrorist acts and acts of war may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. Terrorist acts or acts of war (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to HP, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers, which could significantly impact our revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. The terrorist attacks that took place in the United States on September 11, 2001 were unprecedented events that have created many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may materially harm our business and results of operations. The long term effects on our business of the September 11, 2001 attacks are unknown. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. In addition, as a major multi national company with headquarters and significant operations located in the United States, we may be impacted by actions against the United States. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, or if our distributors financial condition or operations weaken, our revenue, gross margins and profitability could be adversely affected. We use a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third party resellers and distributors and both retail and direct sales to both enterprise accounts and consumers. Since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, the failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore profitability. For example: As we continue to increase our commitment to direct sales, we could risk alienating channel partners and adversely affecting our distribution model. Since direct sales may compete with the sales made by third party resellers and distributors, these third party resellers and distributors may elect to use other suppliers that do not directly sell their own products. Because not all of our customers will prefer to or seek to purchase directly, any increase in our commitment to direct sales could alienate some of our channel partners. As a result, we may lose some of our customers who purchase from third party resellers or distributors. 59 Some of our wholesale and retail distributors may be unable to withstand changes in business conditions. Some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including the ongoing economic downturn and industry consolidation. Revenue from indirect sales could suffer and we could experience disruptions in distribution if our distributors financial condition or operations weaken. Our inventory management will be complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. We must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors. Distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to the distributor and seasonal fluctuations in end user demand. If we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. We depend on third party suppliers, and our revenue and gross margins could be adversely affected if we fail to receive timely delivery of quality components or if we fail to manage inventory levels properly. Our manufacturing operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components and products and our suppliers ability to deliver quality components and products in time to meet critical manufacturing and distribution schedules. Given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer and the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are dispersed across the globe, problems could arise in planning production and managing inventory levels that could seriously harm us. Among the problems that could arise are component shortages, excess supply and risks related to fixed price contracts that would require us to pay more than the open market price. Supply shortages. We occasionally may experience a short supply of certain component parts as a result of strong demand in the industry for those parts or problems experienced by suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, we may be exposed to product quality issues or the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margins and market share could suffer until other sources can be developed. Oversupply. In order to secure components for the production of new products, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers, or we may enter into non cancelable purchase commitments with vendors. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply of parts could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margins. Long term pricing commitments. As a result of binding price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. In the event that we become committed to purchase components for prices in excess of the current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components at lower prices, and our gross margins could suffer. 60 All of these effects may be exacerbated as a result of our use of single source suppliers for certain components. We obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. In addition, new products that we introduce may initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. The performance of such single source suppliers may affect the quality and quantity of supplies to HP. Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other constraints could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. Sales outside the United States make up more than half of our revenue. Our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including: changes in a countrys or regions political or economical conditions, including inflation, recession, currency and interest rate fluctuations; longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers; trade protection measures and local labor conditions; overlap of different corporate structures; unexpected changes in regulatory environment or requirements; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax efficient manner; problems caused by the conversion of various European currencies to the euro and macroeconomic dislocations that may result; and natural disasters. A portion of our product and component manufacturing, along with key suppliers, also are located outside of the United States and also could be disrupted by some of the international factors described above. In particular, along with most other PC vendors, we have engaged manufacturers in Taiwan for the production of notebook computers. In the past, Taiwan has suffered earthquakes and typhoons, resulting in temporary communications and supply disruptions. In addition, we procure components from Japan, which also suffers from earthquakes periodically. Moreover, our Indigo subsidiary has research and development and manufacturing operations located in Israel, which may be more subject to disruptions in light of ongoing regional instability. Impairment of investment and financing portfolios could harm our net earnings. We have an investment portfolio that includes minority equity and debt investments and financing for the purchase of our products and services. In most cases, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these investments and may incur losses related to the impairment of these investments and therefore charges to net earnings. Some of our investments are in public and privately held companies that are still in the start up or development stage, which have inherent risks because the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never become successful. Furthermore, the values of our investments in publicly traded companies are 61 subject to significant market price volatility. Our investments in technology companies often are coupled with a strategic commercial relationship. Our commercial agreements with these companies may not be sufficient to allow us to obtain and integrate such products and services into our offerings or otherwise benefit from the relationship, and these companies may be subsequently acquired by third parties, including competitors. Moreover, due to the economic downturn and difficulties that may be faced by some of the companies to which we have supplied financing, our investment portfolio could be further impaired. The success of our solutions model could be impacted by cost constraints and organizational transition, which could adversely affect revenue. We offer total information technology solutions to our customers, which requires us to maintain our vertical industry presence, enhance programs that enable our customers to purchase information technology as a utility, develop new solutions offerings and develop new employee skills. Our failure to do so could result in our offerings not being competitive and lead to a reduction in consumer demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our revenue. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters, a portion of our research and development activities, other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California, near major earthquake faults. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults is unknown, but our revenue and financial condition and our costs and expenses could be significantly impacted in the event of a major earthquake. In addition, some areas, including California, have experienced, and may continue to experience, ongoing power shortages, which have resulted in "rolling blackouts." These blackouts could cause disruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors and resellers, or customers. We are predominantly self insured for losses and interruptions caused by earthquakes, power outages, water shortages, floods and other natural disasters. The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied. Our revenue and profit margins vary among our products, customer groups and geographic markets. Our revenue mix in future periods will be different than our current revenue mix. Overall profitability in any given period is dependent partially on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that periods net revenue. In particular, IPG and certain product categories such as supplies contribute significantly to our profitability. Actual trends, competitive pressures, regulatory considerations and other factors may result in fluctuation in revenue and cause us to adjust our operations, which could cause period to period fluctuations in our results of operations. 62  Our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. Like other technology companies, we generally sell more hardware products in the third month of each quarter than in the first and second months. This uneven sales pattern makes it difficult to predict near term demand and quarterly results and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. If predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there will be excess inventory. Alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, our ability to fulfill orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter may be limited, which could adversely affect quarterly revenue and earnings and increase the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition. Other developments late in a quarter, such as a systems failure, component pricing movements or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. In addition, we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products. For example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the U.S. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, European sales are often weaker in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the third and fourth calendar quarters, and customers may spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. Many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, marketing and information technology support positions. In particular, our product generation efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified engineers. Attracting and retaining skilled solutions providers in the IT support business and qualified sales representatives are also critical to our future. Experienced management and technical, marketing and support personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense. This is particularly the case in Silicon Valley, where HPs headquarters and certain key research and development facilities are located. We also implemented retention programs in connection with the Compaq acquisition, and we cannot predict the effect on employee retention when these programs expire, generally in May 2003. The loss of key employees could have a significant impact on our operations and stock price. We also must continue to motivate employees and keep them focused on HPs strategies and goals, which may be particularly difficult due to morale challenges posed by workforce reductions, the acquisition of Compaq and the related proxy fight, and general uncertainty. Any failure by us to execute planned cost reductions successfully could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected. Historically, we have undertaken restructuring plans to bring operational expenses to appropriate levels for each of our businesses, while simultaneously implementing extensive new company wide expense control programs. In connection with the Compaq acquisition, we have announced workforce reductions, including restructurings as well as reductions through early retirement programs, that are expected to involve, in the aggregate, more than 17,900 employees worldwide. In addition to previously announced workforce reductions, we may have additional workforce reductions in the future. Significant risks associated with these actions that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost 63 reductions or that may otherwise harm our business include delays in implementation of anticipated reductions in force in highly regulated locations outside of the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia, redundancies among restructuring programs, and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees or decreases in employee morale. HPs stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. HPs stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. Some of the factors that can affect our stock price are: the announcement of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin or earnings, and changes in our business, operations or prospects or any of our segments; changes in quarterly revenue or earnings estimates by the investment community; and speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business or significant transactions, including market assessments of the acquisition of Compaq and integration progress. General market conditions or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to our performance also may affect the price of HP common stock. For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, or results of operations or cash flows. In addition, following periods of volatility in a companys securities, securities class action litigation against a company is sometimes instituted. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. System security risks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or IT services provided to customers, which could harm our revenue and increase our expenses. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties or create system disruptions. As a result, we could incur significant expenses in addressing problems created by security breaches of our own network. Moreover, we could lose existing or potential customers for IT outsourcing services or other IT solutions, or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers system failures. The costs to eliminate computer viruses and alleviate other security problems could be significant. The efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service. In addition, portions of our IT infrastructure may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with ongoing systems integration work. Unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state and international laws governing the environment. We could be subject to liability for remediation if we do not handle these substances in compliance with applicable laws, and we could face significant liabilities and be required to implement financial guarantees in connection with product take back legislation. It is our policy to apply strict standards for environmental protection to sites inside and outside the United States, even when we are not subject to local government regulations. We record a liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs when we consider the costs to be probable 64 and the amount of the costs can be reasonably estimated. We have not incurred environmental costs that are presently material. Some anti takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and shareowner rights plan, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. We have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors. These include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to its common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, directors and officers; limiting the ability of our shareowners to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of shareowner proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of HP shareowners and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors; controlling the procedures for conduct of Board and shareowner meetings and election and removal of directors; and specifying that shareowners may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of shareowners. These provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of HP. As a Delaware corporation, HP also is subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some shareowners from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of HPs outstanding common stock. In 2001, HP issued Preferred Share Purchase Rights (the "Rights") pursuant to a Preferred Stock Rights Agreement, dated as of August 31, 2001 (the "Rights Agreement") between HP and Computershare Investor Services, LLC. The Rights were not intended to prevent a takeover of HP. However, the Rights may have had the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of HP deemed undesirable by the HP Board of Directors. The Rights would have caused substantial dilution to a person or group that attempted to acquire HP on terms or in a manner not approved by our Board of Directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon redemption of the Rights. Our Board of Directors approved the termination of the Rights and the Rights Agreement effective at the close of business on January 21, 2003. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our shareowners to receive a premium for their shares of HP common stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for HP common stock. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations" and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." SFAS No. 141 requires that all business combinations be accounted for by the purchase method of accounting and changes the 65 criteria for recognition of intangible assets acquired in a business combination. The provisions of SFAS No. 141 apply to all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives no longer be amortized; however, these assets must be reviewed at least annually for impairment. Intangible assets with finite useful lives will continue to be amortized over their respective useful lives. The standard also establishes specific guidance for testing for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. The non amortization provisions of SFAS No. 142 were effective immediately for goodwill and intangible assets acquired after June 30, 2001. HP adopted the remaining provisions of SFAS No. 142 effective November 1, 2002. The adoption of SFAS No. 142 will not have a material impact on HPs amortization of goodwill and intangible assets as the majority of its goodwill and intangible assets affected by the adoption of SFAS No. 142 were written off in the restructuring charge recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2002. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 142, HP is required to perform a transitional impairment test for all recorded goodwill within six months and, if necessary, determine the amount of an impairment loss by October 31, 2003. Management is currently in the process of evaluating the effect, if any, of the required impairment testing on HPs recorded goodwill. In addition, HP is required to perform a transitional impairment test for intangible assets with indefinite lives within three months after adoption. HP is in the process of completing an impairment test of its intangible asset with an indefinite useful life, the Compaq trade name, and does not expect to record an impairment charge in the first quarter of fiscal 2003. In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." SFAS No. 144 amends existing accounting guidance on asset impairment and provides a single accounting model for long lived assets to be disposed of. Among other provisions, the new rules change the criteria for classifying an asset as held for sale. The standard also broadens the scope of businesses to be disposed of that qualify for reporting as discontinued operations, and changes the timing of recognizing losses on such operations. HP adopted SFAS No. 144 effective November 1, 2002 and does not expect the adoption to have a material effect on its results of operations or financial condition. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections." Among other provisions, SFAS No. 145 rescinds SFAS No. 4, "Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt." Accordingly, gains or losses from extinguishment of debt shall not be reported as extraordinary items unless the extinguishment qualifies as an extraordinary item under the criteria of Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 30, "Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions." Gains or losses from extinguishment of debt that do not meet the criteria of APB No. 30 should be reclassified to income from continuing operations in all prior periods presented. HP adopted SFAS No. 145 effective November 1, 2002 and will reclassify gains on early extinguishment of debt and related taxes previously recorded as an extraordinary item to interest and other, net and provision for taxes, respectively. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities." SFAS No. 146 provides guidance related to accounting for costs associated with disposal activities covered by SFAS No. 144 or with exit or restructuring activities previously covered by EITF Issue No. 94 3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)." SFAS No. 146 supercedes EITF Issue No. 94 3 in its entirety. SFAS No. 146 requires that costs related to exiting an 66 activity or to a restructuring not be recognized until the liability is incurred. SFAS No. 146 will be applied prospectively to exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45 ("FIN 45"), "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others." FIN 45 requires that a liability be recorded in the guarantors balance sheet upon issuance of a guarantee. In addition, FIN 45 requires disclosures about the guarantees that an entity has issued, including a rollforward of the entitys product warranty liabilities. HP will apply the recognition provisions of FIN 45 prospectively to guarantees issued after December 31, 2002. The disclosure provisions of FIN 45 are effective for financial statements for the first quarter of HPs fiscal year 2003. HP is currently in the process of evaluating the potential impact that the adoption of FIN 45 will have on its consolidated financial position and results of operations. In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No. 00 21, "Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables." EITF Issue No. 00 21 provides guidance on how to account for arrangements that involve the delivery or performance of multiple products, services and or rights to use assets. The provisions of EITF Issue No. 00 21 will apply to revenue arrangements entered into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003. HP is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of EITF Issue No. 00 21 will have on its results of operations and financial condition. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, Transition and Disclosure." SFAS No. 148 provides alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. SFAS No. 148 also requires that disclosures of the pro forma effect of using the fair value method of accounting for stock based employee compensation be displayed more prominently and in a tabular format. Additionally, SFAS No. 148 requires disclosure of the pro forma effect in interim financial statements. The transition and annual disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 148 are effective for HPs fiscal year 2003. The interim disclosure requirements are effective for the second quarter of HPs fiscal year 2003. HP does not expect SFAS No. 148 to have a material effect on its results of operations or financial condition. In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 ("FIN 46"), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51." FIN 46 requires certain variable interest entities to be consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity investors in the entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. FIN 46 is effective for all new variable interest entities created or acquired after January 31, 2003. For variable interest entities created or acquired prior to February 1, 2003, the provisions of FIN 46 must be applied for the first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2003. HP is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of FIN 46 will have on its results of operations and financial condition. 67  ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and equity price risks that could impact our results of operations. Our risk management strategy with respect to these three market risks includes the use of derivative financial instruments, including forwards, swaps and purchased options, to hedge certain of these exposures. Our objective is to offset gains and losses resulting from these exposures with gains and losses on the derivative contracts used to hedge them, thereby reducing volatility of earnings or protecting fair values of assets and liabilities. Derivative positions are used only to manage existing underlying exposures of HP. Accordingly, we do not enter into any trading or speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments. Foreign currency exchange rate risk We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We transact business in approximately 30 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to our operations are the euro, the Japanese yen and the British pound. For most currencies we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and therefore benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. We have performed a sensitivity analysis as of October 31, 2002 and 2001, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar with all other variables held constant. The analysis covers all of our foreign exchange forward contracts offset by the underlying exposures. Options are excluded from the analysis. The foreign currency exchange rates used were based on market rates in effect at October 31, 2002 and 2001. The sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, net of exposures, of $95 million at October 31, 2002 and $52 million at October 31, 2001. Interest rate risk We are also exposed to interest rate risk related to our debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. We have performed a sensitivity analysis as of October 31, 2002 and 2001, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve with all other variables held constant. The analysis covers our debt, investment instruments and financing receivables and is based on the actual maturities of debt and investments and approximate maturities for financing receivables. The discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at October 31, 2002 and 2001. The sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investment instruments and financing receivables of $40 million at October 31, 2002 and $14 million at October 31, 2001. Equity price risk We are also exposed to equity price risk inherent in our portfolio of publicly traded equity securities, which had an estimated fair value of $52 million at October 31, 2002 and $148 million at October 31, 2001. We monitor our equity investments on a periodic basis. In the event that the carrying value of the equity investment exceeds its fair value, and the decline in value is determined to be other than temporary, the carrying value is reduced to its current fair value. Generally, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these equity securities. We do not hold our equity securities for trading or speculative purposes. A hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair values of our marketable equity securities of $16 million at October 31, 2002 and $44 million at October 31, 2001. Actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price movements and our actual exposures and hedges. 68   
 
