ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. OVERVIEW We are a leading global technology company and generate net revenue and earn our profits from the sale of products, technologies, solutions and services to consumers, businesses and governments. Our portfolio is broad and includes personal computers, handheld computing devices, home and business imaging and printing devices, publishing systems, storage and servers, a wide array of information technology ("IT") services and software solutions. We have seven business segments: the Personal Systems Group ("PSG"), the Imaging and Printing Group ("IPG"), Enterprise Storage & Servers ("ESS"), HP Services ("HPS"), HP Financial Services ("HPFS"), Software and Corporate Investments. Given the cross segment linkages in our Adaptive Enterprise Strategy, and in order to capitalize on up selling and cross selling opportunities, ESS, HPS and Software are structured beneath a broader Technology Solutions Group ("TSG"). While TSG is not an operating segment, we sometimes provide financial data aggregating the segments within TSG in order to provide a supplementary view of our business. Our business strategy revolves around the following strategic imperatives: to provide consumer customers with superior products, services and overall experiences by providing leading edge technologies that work seamlessly together; to deliver to business customers the best return on IT investments in the industry; to build world class cost structures and processes across our entire portfolio of businesses; and to focus our innovation and research and development in areas where we can make unique contributions while partnering with top providers in other areas to enable us to provide our customers complete IT solutions. This approach requires us to excel both in individual product categories and in managing across our broad portfolio in order to drive growth while optimizing cost structure. At the same time, our product and geographic breadth help reduce volatility by balancing our financial results across a related but diversified set of businesses. Our financial results also are impacted by our ability to predict and to respond to industry wide trends. For instance, underlying our strategy is our belief that physical, static processes will continue to shift to processes that are digital, mobile, virtual and personal. By anticipating these shifts and preparing solutions that make these changes simple for customers, we have the opportunity to accelerate these shifts and capture revenue and market share. Our approach to preparing these solutions can be seen in programs such as our digital photography initiative, where we offer compatible solutions spanning cameras, printers and paper, as well as in the focus on flexibility, modularity and integration in our Adaptive Enterprise solutions. Another trend significant to our business and financial results is the shift toward standardized products, which presents revenue opportunities for certain of our businesses but presents an ongoing challenge to our margins. To help address the potential margin impact of standardization, we take ongoing actions related to both revenue generation and cost structure management. In the sales and 29 marketing area, we are instituting programs designed to improve the rates at which we sell higher margin configurations or options. We also continue to focus on managing procurement and labor expenses. Key to our overall efforts in delivering superior products while maintaining a world class cost structure is the increasingly global nature of technology expertise. This trend is allowing us to develop a global delivery structure to take advantage of regions where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs. As part of this effort, we continually evaluate our workforce and make adjustments we deem appropriate. When we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure, but we believe that the fundamental shift to global delivery is crucial to maintaining a long term competitive cost structure. In terms of how our execution has translated into financial performance, the following provides our overview of key fiscal 2004 financial metrics: TSG HP Consolidated ESS HPS Software Total PSG IPG HPFS in millions, except per share amounts Net revenue $ 79,905 $ 15,152 $ 13,778 $ 922 $ 29,852 $ 24,622 $ 24,199 $ 1,895 Year over year net revenue % increase (decrease) 9 % 4 % 12 % 19 % 8 % 16 % 7 % (1 )% Earnings (loss) from operations $ 4,227 $ 173 $ 1,263 $ (145 ) $ 1,291 $ 210 $ 3,847 $ 125 Earnings (loss) from operations as a % of net revenue 5.3 % 1.1 % 9.2 % (15.7 )% 4.3 % 0.9 % 15.9 % 6.6 % Net earnings $ 3,497 Net earnings per share Basic $ 1.16 Diluted $ 1.15 Cash and cash equivalents for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2004 totaled $12.7 billion, a decline of $1.5 billion from the October 31, 2003 balance of $14.2 billion. The decline was related primarily to increased cash returned to stockholders through share repurchases and increased cash utilized for acquisitions in fiscal 2004, offset in part by increased earnings. We intend the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to provide information that will assist in understanding our consolidated financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our consolidated financial statements. In order to provide additional information relating to our operating results, we also present a supplemental section of combined company information that discusses our operating results for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2002 as if HP and Compaq had been a combined company for all of fiscal 2002. The discussion of results of operations at the consolidated level is followed by a more detailed discussion of results of operations by segment and supplemental sections of combined company information that discuss our segment operating results as if HP and Compaq had been a combined company for all of fiscal 2002. For a further discussion of factors that could impact operating results, see the section entitled "Factors That Could Affect Future Results" below. 30 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES General The Consolidated Financial Statements of HP are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of HPs Board of Directors. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made; if different estimates reasonably could have been used; or if changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur periodically could materially impact the financial statements. Management believes the following critical accounting policies reflect the significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Valuation of Goodwill and Indefinite Lived Purchased Intangible Assets We review goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." The provisions of SFAS No. 142 require that a two step impairment test be performed on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. Our reporting units are consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. We determine the fair value of our reporting units based on a weighting of income and market approaches. Under the income approach, we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. Under the market approach, we estimate the fair value based on market multiples of revenue or earnings for comparable companies. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then we record an impairment loss equal to the difference. SFAS No. 142 also requires that the fair value of the purchased intangible assets with indefinite lives be estimated and compared to the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of these intangible assets using an income approach. We recognize an impairment loss when the estimated fair value of the intangible asset is less than the carrying value. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit or an indefinite lived purchased intangible asset is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions, and determination of 31 appropriate market comparables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of our reporting units. Our annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of fair value over carrying value for each of HPs reporting units as of August 1, 2004, the annual testing date, ranged from approximately $700 million to approximately $34 billion. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations on the goodwill impairment test, we applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit. This hypothetical 10% decrease would result in excess fair value over carrying value ranging from approximately $200 million to approximately $30 billion for each of HPs reporting units. Revenue Recognition We enter into contracts to sell our products and services, and, while the majority of our sales agreements contain standard terms and conditions, there are agreements that contain multiple elements or non standard terms and conditions. As a result, significant contract interpretation is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in a multiple element arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and, if so, how the price should be allocated among the elements and when to recognize revenue for each element. We recognize revenue for delivered elements only when the fair values of undelivered elements are known, uncertainties regarding customer acceptance are resolved and there are no customer negotiated refund or return rights affecting the revenue recognized for delivered elements. Changes in the allocation of the sales price between elements might impact the timing of revenue recognition but would not change the total revenue recognized on the contract. We recognize revenue as work progresses on certain fixed price contracts, such as consulting arrangements, using the proportional performance method. When applying the proportional performance method, we rely on estimates of total expected contract costs in order to determine the amount of revenue earned to date. We follow this method because reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue applicable to various stages of a contract can be made. Total contract profit is subject to revisions throughout the life of the contract. Changes in revenue as a result of revisions to cost estimates are recorded to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. We record estimated reductions to revenue for customer and distributor programs and incentive offerings, including price protection, promotions, other volume based incentives and expected returns. Future market conditions and product transitions may require us to take actions to increase customer incentive offerings, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. Additionally, certain incentive programs require us to estimate, based on historical experience, the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive. 32  Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Our allowance for doubtful accounts is determined using a combination of factors to ensure that our trade and financing receivables balances are not overstated due to uncollectibility. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for all customers based on a variety of factors, including the length of time receivables are past due, trends in overall weighted average risk rating of the total portfolio, macroeconomic conditions, significant one time events, historical experience and the use of third party credit risk models that generate quantitative measures of default probabilities based on market factors and the financial condition of customers. Also, we record specific provisions for individual accounts when we become aware of a customers inability to meet its financial obligations to us, such as in the case of bankruptcy filings or deterioration in the customers operating results or financial position. If circumstances related to customers change, our estimates of the recoverability of receivables would be further adjusted, either upward or downward. The annual provision for doubtful accounts has ranged from 0.1% to 0.5% of net revenue over the last three fiscal years. Using our third party credit risk model at October 31, 2004, a 50 basis point deterioration in either the weighted average default probabilities of our significant customers or in the overall mix of our portfolio would have resulted in an approximately $20 million increase to our trade allowance at the end of fiscal year 2004. Inventory Our inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market. Adjustments to reduce the cost of inventory to its net realizable value, if required, are made at the product group level for estimated excess, obsolescence or impaired balances. Factors influencing these adjustments include changes in demand, rapid technological changes, product life cycle and development plans, component cost trends, product pricing, physical deterioration and quality issues. Revisions to these adjustments would be required if these factors differ from our estimates. Restructuring We have engaged, and may continue to engage, in restructuring actions, which require management to utilize significant estimates related to realizable values of assets made redundant or obsolete and expenses for severance and other employee separation costs, lease cancellation and other exit costs. Should the actual amounts differ from our estimates, the amount of the restructuring charges could be materially impacted. Warranty Provision We provide for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. We evaluate our warranty obligations on a product group basis. Our standard product warranty terms generally include post sales support and repairs or replacement of a product at no additional charge for a specified period of time. While we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers, our estimated warranty obligation is based upon warranty terms, ongoing product failure rates, repair costs, product call rates, average cost per call and current period product shipments. If actual product failure rates, repair rates, service delivery costs or post sales support costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. Warranty terms generally range from one to three years depending upon the product. Over the last three fiscal years, the annual warranty provision has averaged approximately 4% of net product revenues, while actual annual warranty costs also have averaged approximately 4% of net product revenues. 33 Retirement Benefits Our pension and other post retirement benefit costs and obligations are dependent on various actuarial assumptions used in calculating such amounts. These assumptions relate to discount rates, salary growth, long term return on plan assets, medical cost trend rates and other factors. We base the discount rate assumption on current investment yields on high quality fixed income investments. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience and future and near term outlook. Long term return on plan assets is determined based on historical portfolio results and managements expectation of the future economic environment, as well as target asset allocations. Our medical cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook and an assessment of likely long term trends. Actual results that differ from our assumptions are accumulated and amortized over the estimated future working life of the plan participants. Our major assumptions for determining net benefit cost for pension and post retirement plans include the long term return on plan assets, the discount rate for determining plan obligations and the future expected average increase in compensation levels. These rates vary by plan and the weighted average rates used are set forth in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Each assumption has different sensitivity characteristics, and, in general, changes, if any, have moved in the same direction over the last several years. For fiscal 2004, a change in the weighted average rates would have had the following impact on our net benefit cost: a decrease of 25 basis points in the long term rate of return would have increased our net benefit cost by approximately $20 million; a decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate would have increased our net benefit cost by approximately $50 million; and a decrease of 25 basis points in the future compensation rate would have decreased our net benefit cost by approximately $40 million. Taxes on Earnings Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States. As described in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, our fiscal year 2004 results do not reflect the impact of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Jobs Act"). We have not completed the process of reevaluating our position with respect to the indefinite reinvestment of foreign earnings to take into account the possible election of the repatriation provisions contained in the Jobs Act. Foreign earnings remittance amounts are planned based on projected cash flow needs as well as the working capital and long term investment requirements of our foreign subsidiaries and our domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount that will be distributed to the United States and provide the U.S. federal taxes due on these amounts. Further, as a result of certain employment actions and capital investments undertaken by HP, income from manufacturing activities in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates, and in some cases is wholly exempt from taxes, for years through 2018. Material changes in our estimates of cash, working capital and long term investment requirements in the various jurisdictions in which we do business could impact our effective tax rate. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. We have considered future market growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and prudent and feasible 34 tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets would be realized, we would reverse the applicable portion of the previously provided valuation allowance. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in the tax jurisdictions in which the deferred tax assets are located. We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are recorded when identified, which is generally in the third quarter of the subsequent year for U.S. federal and state provisions. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Our estimate for the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. We believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters. However, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made or resolved or when statutes of limitation on potential assessments expire. Additionally, the jurisdictions in which our earnings or deductions are realized may differ from our current estimates. As a result, our effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share Based Payment" ("SFAS 123R"), which replaces SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123") and supercedes APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees." SFAS 123R requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values, beginning with the first interim or annual period after June 15, 2005, with early adoption encouraged. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123, no longer will be an alternative to financial statement recognition. We are required to adopt SFAS 123R in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, beginning August 1, 2005. Under SFAS 123R, we must determine the appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing share based payments, the amortization method for compensation cost and the transition method to be used at date of adoption. The transition methods include prospective and retroactive adoption options. Under the retroactive options, prior periods may be restated either as of the beginning of the year of adoption or for all periods presented. The prospective method requires that compensation expense be recorded for all unvested stock options and restricted stock at the beginning of the first quarter of adoption of SFAS 123R, while the retroactive methods would record compensation expense for all unvested stock options and restricted stock beginning with the first period restated. We are evaluating the requirements of SFAS 123R and we expect that the adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and earnings per share. We have not yet determined the method of adoption or the effect of adopting SFAS 123R, and we have not determined whether the adoption will result in amounts that are similar to the current pro forma disclosures under SFAS 123. See Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a description of other recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition. 35 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: For the fiscal years ended October 31 2004 2003(2) 2002(2) In millions Net revenue $ 79,905 100.0 % $ 73,061 100.0 % $ 56,588 100.0 % Cost of sales(1) 60,340 75.5 % 53,858 73.7 % 41,793 73.9 % Gross margin 19,565 24.5 % 19,203 26.3 % 14,795 26.1 % Research and development 3,506 4.4 % 3,651 5.0 % 3,368 6.0 % Selling, general and administrative 11,024 13.8 % 11,012 15.0 % 8,763 15.5 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets 603 0.8 % 563 0.8 % 402 0.7 % Restructuring charges 114 0.1 % 800 1.1 % 1,780 3.1 % Acquisition related charges 54 0.1 % 280 0.4 % 701 1.2 % In process research and development charges 37 1 793 1.4 % Earnings (loss) from operations 4,227 5.3 % 2,896 4.0 % (1,012 ) (1.8 )% Interest and other, net 35 21 52 0.1 % Gains (losses) on investments and early extinguishment of debt 4 (29 ) (75 ) (0.1 )% Dispute settlement (70 ) (0.1 )% 14 Earnings (loss) before taxes 4,196 5.2 % 2,888 4.0 % (1,021 ) (1.8 )% Provision for (benefit from) taxes 699 0.8 % 349 0.5 % (118 ) (0.2 )% Net earnings (loss) $ 3,497 4.4 % $ 2,539 3.5 % $ (903 ) (1.6 )% (1)Cost of products, cost of services and financing interest. (2)Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts in order to conform to the current year presentation. Net Revenue The components of weighted average net revenue growth for the fiscal years ended October 31 are as follows: 2004 2003 Percentage points Personal Systems Group 4.7 11.5 Imaging and Printing Group 2.2 3.9 HP Services 1.9 5.8 Enterprise Storage and Servers 0.8 7.4 Software 0.2 0.1 HP Financial Services 0.4 Corporate Investments & Other (0.4 ) Total HP 9.4 29.1 36 In fiscal 2004, net revenue increased 9% from the prior year period (3% on a constant currency basis). The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro. U.S. net revenue remained flat at $29.4 billion, while international net revenue increased 15% to $50.5 billion. PSG experienced net revenue growth across all businesses, with customer demand resulting in significant volume increases in desktop and notebook PCs. The overall volume increase was offset by a slight decline in the overall average selling prices ("ASPs") due to a mix shift to lower end products as well as component cost declines. IPG net revenue growth in fiscal year 2004 was driven by the continued volume growth of printer supplies. LaserJet supplies and color laser printers experienced strong volume growth due to the growing demand for color related products and digital photography. HPS achieved net revenue growth across all businesses in fiscal 2004. The impact of major outsourcing deals and, to a lesser extent, the Triaton acquisition in the second half of the year, contributed to the growth in managed services and technology services (formerly called customer support). In fiscal 2004, ESS net revenue growth was generated by sales of industry standard servers, primarily our ProLiant server line. Revenue declines from competitive pressures in storage and business critical servers moderated the overall segment net revenue growth. The slight decrease in HPFS net revenue for fiscal 2004 was due primarily to lower levels of revenue generating assets. In fiscal 2003, net revenue increased 29% from the prior year period (23% or a constant currency basis) as a result primarily of our acquisition of Compaq at the beginning of May 2002. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro. U.S. net revenue increased 25% to $29.2 billion, while international net revenue grew 32% to $43.8 billion. The net revenue increase in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 attributable to our acquisition of Compaq resulted in market share increases in PSG, ESS and HPS and, to a lesser extent, HPFS. IPG also contributed to the overall net revenue increase in fiscal 2003 due primarily to strong growth in our printer supplies reflecting higher volumes as a result of continued expansion of the printer hardware installed base and, to a lesser extent, growth in printer hardware and digital imaging products as well as synergies resulting from the Compaq acquisition. Declining ASPs due to competitive pricing pressures and a shift in sales mix to lower priced products and service offerings moderated our overall net revenue increases in fiscal 2003. Gross Margin The weighted average components of the change in gross margin as a percentage of net revenue for the fiscal years ended October 31 are as follows: 2004 2003 Percentage points Enterprise Storage and Servers (0.8 ) 0.1 HP Services (0.6 ) Personal Systems Group (0.5 ) (0.3 ) Imaging and Printing Group (0.2 ) Software HP Financial Services 0.1 0.4 Corporate Investments & Other 0.2 Total HP (1.8 ) 0.2 37  Competitive pricing pressures contributed significantly to the gross margin decline in ESS, HPS and PSG for fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003. In ESS the competitive environment contributed to the gross margin decline in the standards based server group along with the storage group. In addition to competitive pricing pressures, the gross margin decline in HPS reflected mix shifts to lower margin contracts for technology services and large outsourcing contracts for managed services, which typically have lower margins in the early stages of their life cycles. Competitive pricing pressures, particularly in Europe, contributed to the gross margin decline in PSG. IPG gross margin remained flat for fiscal 2004, with the favorable impact from cost reductions and increased shipments in supplies being offset by a mix shift to lower margin products. HPFS gross margin increased for fiscal 2004 due to higher portfolio profitability primarily from end of lease transactions. In fiscal 2004, gross margin also was favorably impacted by the currency effects on net revenue resulting primarily from the weakening of the dollar against the euro. The gross margin improvement for fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 was due to cost reductions resulting from workforce reductions and initial economies of scale and procurement leverage resulting from the Compaq acquisition. Declining ASPs due to competitive pricing pressures and a mix shift toward lower margin products across most of our segments moderated the overall increase. In addition, fiscal 2003 gross margin was impacted favorably by currency effects on net revenue resulting primarily from the weakening of the dollar against the euro, as well as higher cost of sales in fiscal 2002 due to $147 million of inventory adjustments resulting from product roadmap decisions. ESS showed a slight improvement compared to the prior year period as a result of growth in storage, which offset the unfavorable impact of a mix shift toward industry standard servers. HPS did not have a significant impact on the change in gross margin. PSG had a negative impact on gross margin due to an unfavorable mix shift with increased sales in lower margin products as a percentage of the overall business. Operating Expenses Research and Development In comparison to prior years, research and development expense as a percentage of net revenue decreased in fiscal 2004 and 2003. For fiscal 2004, total research and development spending decreased as a percentage of net revenue in each of our major segments. The decrease was a result of our focus on investing in categories of the business that yield stronger long term returns in the marketplace and on curtailing spending in the more mature categories of our business, particularly within ESS. In addition, we continued to realize synergies from the Compaq acquisition during fiscal 2004, and we have shifted our business towards more standards based products, leveraging research and development from our technology partners. These decreases as a percentage of net revenue were moderated by increased research and development spending in IPG related to strategic initiatives and unfavorable currency impacts resulting primarily from the weakening of the dollar against the euro. IPGs increase in research and development spending was due primarily to our investment in inkjet technology. For fiscal 2003, the decrease was due primarily to a full year of increased net revenue from our acquisition of Compaq, combined with the favorable impact of prior year restructuring actions, as well as expense control measures. In addition, the overall decrease in fiscal 2003 expense was moderated by higher pension and other post retirement costs and unfavorable currency effects of the weakening of the dollar against the euro. 38 Selling, General and Administrative The decline in selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net revenue in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 was due primarily to the increase in net revenue outpacing expense growth. This was in part a result of effective expense controls and workforce reduction measures. Unfavorable currency impacts moderated the decline due to the weakening of the dollar against the euro. In fiscal 2003, as compared to fiscal 2002, selling general and administrative expense as a percentage of net revenue declined slightly. The majority of the change was attributable to our acquisition of Compaq in May 2002, including our workforce reduction efforts, expense control measures as well as lower bad debt expense. In addition, fiscal 2003 expense was impacted partially by unfavorable currency effects primarily from the weakening of the dollar against the euro. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The increase in amortization expense in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 was due primarily to the amortization of intangible assets related to the acquisition of Triaton GmbH, Triaton France SAS and Triaton N.A., Inc. (USA) (collectively "Triaton") in April 2004. The increase in amortization expense in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 was due primarily to amortization of purchased intangible assets related to the acquisition of Compaq in May 2002, and to a lesser extent, the acquisition of Indigo N.V. ("Indigo") in March 2002. This increase was offset in part by the elimination of goodwill amortization, as well as the write off of purchased intangible assets related to our middleware and storage virtualization offerings in fiscal 2002 that related to the Compaq acquisition product road map. Restructuring Charges HP implemented certain strategic restructuring programs during fiscal years 2003 and 2002. Net restructuring charges for the 3 year period ended October 31, 2004 aggregated approximately $2.7 billion, the majority of which related to restructuring of pre merger HP in connection with the 2002 acquisition of Compaq. In fiscal 2003, HP implemented restructuring programs in order to manage our cost structure and better align it with business conditions. The majority of restructuring charges incurred during fiscal 2004 represent fiscal 2003 restructuring plan activities that did not meet the recognition criteria for accrual during 2003 and, accordingly, were charged to expense as incurred in fiscal 2004, as well as changes in the original estimates for the fiscal 2002 and 2003 plans. These changes in estimates were related primarily to asset impairments for buildings vacated as a result of the Compaq acquisition, adjustments to estimates of severance and other employee benefits costs as well as revisions to contract termination costs. In addition, HP recorded approximately $1.2 billion of restructuring liability as part of the acquisition of Compaq and allocated such liability as an element of the original purchase price allocation in fiscal 2002. Approximately $960 million of this amount related to the restructuring of the pre merger Compaq business at the time of the acquisition, and approximately $259 million related to pre existing Compaq restructuring liabilities. Downward revisions to the original estimates for these pre merger Compaq related restructuring plans have been recorded as decreases to the Compaq related goodwill, while increases have been recorded as restructuring expense in the period in which they occur. The effect of the restructuring programs put in place as a result of the acquisition of Compaq has been to reduce costs by removing duplication, leverage the benefits of the larger organization, as well 39 as streamline and focus the operations of HP. Cost benefits earned from strategic product roadmap decisions, headcount and facilities reductions and realignment, and more focused and efficient research and development and sales and marketing programs, have been substantial, as seen in the progressive lowering of operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. Of the total $3.5 billion of cost synergies associated with the Compaq integration completed at the end of fiscal 2003, approximately $2 billion are the result of these acquisition related restructuring plans. These efforts not only have improved profitability but also have allowed HP to target and serve its customers better. Restructuring liabilities of $288 million at October 31, 2004 are composed primarily of the remaining cash payments on certain severance benefits for non U.S. operations and contract termination costs, including canceled facility leases. These obligations will be largely settled by the end of fiscal 2010. In addition, approximately $6 million of costs related to the 2003 plans have not yet been accrued, as the requirements for recognition have not yet been met, and will be charged to operations as the restructuring activities occur during fiscal 2005. The following table summarizes the major activities in aggregate and during fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 related to restructuring programs: For the fiscal years ended October 31 Aggregate Total 2004 2003 2002 In millions, except employee data Workforce reductions (number of employees): 2002 plans estimate and estimate revisions 17,600 (300 ) 17,900 2002 plans exits (17,600 ) (100 ) (4,800 ) (12,700 ) Remaining to exit 2003 plans estimate and estimate revisions 8,600 (400 ) 9,000 2003 plans exits (8,300 ) (1,300 ) (7,000 ) Remaining to exit 300 Restructuring program charges: 2003 cost structure realignment charges: Severance and other benefits $ 645 $ 6 $ 639 Asset impairments 77 6 71 Other infrastructure costs 67 25 42 Sub total 789 37 752 2002 HP and Compaq restructuring charges: Severance and other benefits $ 1,099 $ 38 $ 32 $ 1,029 Asset impairments 611 65 546 Other infrastructure costs 172 37 (49 ) 184 Sub total 1,882 75 48 1,759 2001 restructuring plan charges 23 2 21 Total $ 2,694 $ 114 $ 800 $ 1,780 Pre merger Compaq restructuring plans and goodwill adjustments: Pre existing 2001 Compaq plan $ 231 $ (2 ) $ (26 ) $ 259 2002 Compaq plan 795 (71 ) (94 ) 960 Total $ 1,026 $ (73 ) $ (120 ) $ 1,219 40  Workforce Rebalancing We continue to focus on managing procurement expenses and developing a global delivery structure to take advantage of regions where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs. As part of this effort, we continually evaluate our workforce and make adjustments we deem appropriate. When we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the financial benefit of a more efficient workforce structure, but we believe that the fundamental shift to global delivery is crucial to maintaining a long term competitive cost structure. In this context, we expect to incur expenses of approximately $200 million in the first half of fiscal 2005 in connection with workforce reductions. Full financial benefits from workforce reductions begin when aggregate cost savings exceed the separation expenses, which is typically in the quarterly period following the quarter in which these expenses are incurred. Acquisition Related Charges Acquisition related charges in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 consist substantially of costs related to the Compaq acquisition. Acquisition related charges in fiscal 2004 consisted primarily of the amortization of deferred compensation, merger related inventory adjustments and professional fees, while the costs in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 were attributable primarily to costs incurred for employee retention bonuses, professional fees and consulting services. Acquisition related charges in fiscal year 2002 also included costs incurred for proxy solicitation and advertising for the Compaq acquisition. In Process Research and Development Charges In process research & development ("IPR&D") charges are recorded in connection with acquisitions accounted for as business combinations, as more fully described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Research and development projects engaged in by an acquired company are analyzed as of the acquisition date to determine their current technological feasibility and possible future alternative uses. Based on an analysis of estimated costs to develop, discounted cash flows from the projects, revenue estimates related to market size, growth factors, technology trends and in the absence of alternative future use, HP determines the purchase price amount to be allocated to IPR&D and records the amount as expense at that time. In fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 we recorded IPR&D charges of $37 million, $1 million and $793 million, respectively, related to acquisitions during those years. Interest and Other, Net Interest and other, net increased $14 million in fiscal 2004 from fiscal 2003. The increase in fiscal 2004 was the result of lower interest expense offset partially by higher currency losses from balance sheet remeasurement and related hedging strategies. Interest and other, net decreased $31 million in fiscal 2003 from fiscal 2002. The decline in fiscal 2003 was attributable primarily to increased interest expense associated with higher average borrowings and lower dividend and other income associated with our investment activities as compared to fiscal 2002, while lower net currency losses from our balance sheet remeasurement moderated the decline. Gains (Losses) on Investments and Early Extinguishment of Debt The net gain for fiscal 2004 was attributable mainly to the realization of a contingent gain associated with a prior period divestiture and realized gains from the sale of investments in excess of 41 impairment charges. Net losses in fiscal 2003 and 2002 resulted mainly from impairment charges in excess of gains realized on our investment portfolio. Losses decreased in fiscal 2003 from 2002 while gains from the early extinguishment of debt under our repurchase program for zero coupon subordinated convertible notes offset slightly the fiscal 2002 impairment losses. Our investment portfolio includes equity investments in publicly traded and privately held emerging technology companies. Many of these emerging technology companies are still in the start up or development stage. Our investments in these companies are inherently risky because the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never become successful. Depending on market conditions, we may incur additional charges on our investment portfolio in the future. Dispute Settlement On May 14, 2004, HP announced that it had resolved a dispute regarding certain contracts with the Government of Canada. HP Canada agreed to reimburse the Government of Canada the sum of CDN$146 million (approximately US$105 million on such date). This settlement resulted in an additional charge of $70 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2004, as more fully described in Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. In July 2001, we signed a definitive agreement with Comdisco, Inc. ("Comdisco") to acquire substantially all of Comdiscos business continuity services business. The agreement was subject to the bankruptcy court sales process and related approvals. In November 2001, the bankruptcy court announced that we were not selected as the winning bid to acquire Comdiscos business continuity services business. In the third quarter of fiscal 2002, we received $14 million in a settlement related to the termination of the definitive agreement. Provision for (Benefit from) Taxes Our effective tax rate on earnings from operations in fiscal 2004, 2003, and 2002 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due generally to tax rate benefits of certain earnings from operations in lower tax jurisdictions throughout the world for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States. For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate, see Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Our effective tax rate resulted in a 16.7% provision in fiscal 2004 on our pretax earnings, a 12.1% provision in fiscal 2003 on our pre tax earnings and an 11.6% benefit in fiscal 2002 on our pre tax loss. In fiscal 2004, the tax rate benefited from net favorable adjustments to previously estimated tax liabilities of $207 million, which decreased the provision for taxes by approximately $0.07 per share. Excluding these adjustments, our tax rate for fiscal 2004 would have been 21.6%. The most significant favorable adjustments related to the resolution of a California state income tax audit, a net favorable revision to estimated tax accruals upon filing the 2003 U.S. income tax return, and a reduction in taxes on foreign earnings due to a change in regulatory policy. These favorable adjustments were offset in part by the net effect of smaller adjustments to income tax liabilities in various jurisdictions. The increase in the overall tax rate in fiscal 2004 from fiscal 2003, and fiscal 2003 from fiscal 2002, is driven primarily by a decline in the benefit percentage from lower rates in other jurisdictions in both periods. Lower tax rates in non U.S. jurisdictions provided a benefit of 15.3% in fiscal 2004, a decline from a benefit of 23.9% and 36.0% in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002, respectively. The major factor causing 42 the reduction in this rate benefit percentage in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003 from the respective preceding years is the decline in restructuring and other deductible acquisition related charges that were incurred for the most part in higher tax jurisdictions during those years. In fiscal 2002, operating losses also were a significant contributor to the tax benefit, offset in part by the impact of non deductible items, primarily acquisition related charges, goodwill amortization and IPR&D charges. Combined Company Results The following discussion includes the combined results of operations of HP and Compaq as if the acquisition had occurred as of the beginning of fiscal 2002. We have included this additional information in order to provide further insight into our prior period operating results and trends. This supplemental information is presented in a manner consistent with the disclosure requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, "Business Combinations." The combined company results for fiscal 2003 are the same as the historical results, as Compaq was included for the entire period. Due to different historical fiscal period ends for HP and Compaq, the results for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2002 combine the results of HP for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2002 and the historical quarterly results of Compaq for the six month period ended March 31, 2002 and for the period May 3, 2002 (the acquisition date) to October 31, 2002. Results of operations for the combined company, in dollars and as a percentage of net revenue, were as follows: For the fiscal years ended October 31 2003(2) 2002(2) In millions Net revenue $ 73,061 100.0 % $ 72,346 100.0 % Cost of sales(1) 53,858 73.7 % 54,311 75.1 % Gross margin 19,203 26.3 % 18,035 24.9 % Research and development 3,651 5.0 % 3,953 5.4 % Selling, general and administrative 11,012 15.0 % 11,091 15.3 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets 563 0.8 % 664 0.9 % Restructuring charges 800 1.1 % 1,780 2.5 % Acquisition related charges 280 0.4 % 772 1.1 % In process research and development charges 1 793 1.1 % Earnings (loss) from operations 2,896 4.0 % (1,018 ) (1.4 )% Interest and other, net 21 20 Losses on investments and early extinguishment of debt (29 ) (70 ) (0.1 )% Dispute settlement 14 Earnings (loss) before taxes 2,888 4.0 % (1,054 ) (1.5 )% Provision for (benefit from) taxes 349 0.5 % (126 ) (0.2 )% Net earnings (loss) $ 2,539 3.5 % $ (928 ) (1.3 )% (1)Cost of products, cost of services and financing interest. (2)Certain reclassifications have been made to prior fiscal year balances in order to conform to the current fiscal year presentation. 43 Net Revenue The weighted average components of the increase in net revenue for the fiscal year ended October 31 were as follows: 2003 Percentage points Imaging and Printing Group 3.0 Enterprise Storage and Servers (1.0 ) Personal Systems Group (0.9 ) HP Financial Services (0.2 ) Software (0.1 ) HP Services Corporate Investments & Other 0.2 Total HP 1.0 On a combined company basis, net revenue increased 1% (but declined 4% on a constant currency basis) in fiscal 2003. U.S. net revenue remained essentially flat at $29.2 billion, while international net revenue increased 1% to $43.8 billion. Overall, the combined company net revenue in fiscal 2003 was impacted favorably by currency effects, particularly the weakening of the dollar against the euro. Lower average selling prices due to competitive pricing pressures, a shift in sales mix to lower priced products and service offerings and the consolidation of product offerings as a result of post acquisition product roadmap decisions moderated the overall increase. The net revenue increase in IPG was driven by strong growth in printer supplies resulting from a rise in volumes, reflecting continued expansion of the printer hardware installed base, and to a lesser extent, growth from our business printer hardware and digital imaging products. The ESS net revenue decline was attributable primarily to a net revenue decrease in business critical servers due to competitive pricing as well as cautious enterprise capital spending. The net revenue decline in PSG resulted primarily from lower average selling prices due to competitive pricing pressure and, to a lesser extent, a decline in volumes in commercial and consumer desktop PCs. The HPFS net revenue decline was due primarily to a decrease in revenue generating assets. HPS net revenue decreased slightly due primarily to declines in the consulting and integration business, moderated by increases in managed services and technology services net revenue. Gross Margin The weighted average components of the increase in gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2003 were as follows: 2003 Percentage points Personal Systems Group 0.5 Imaging and Printing Group 0.3 HP Financial Services 0.3 Enterprise Storage and Servers 0.1 Software 0.1 Corporate Investments & Other 0.2 HP Services (0.1 ) Total HP 1.4 44  Gross margin as a percentage of combined company net revenue improved 1.4 percentage points in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. Overall, gross margin improvement in fiscal 2003 was attributable primarily to cost savings resulting from improved cost structures, continued expense control measures and, to a lesser extent, decreased component prices, moderated by declining average selling prices due to competitive pricing pressures. The gross margin improvement in PSG was due primarily to reduced direct and indirect procurement costs, reflecting synergies associated with our acquisition of Compaq. The improvement in HPFS gross margin was due primarily to reduced bad debt expense resulting from a stronger portfolio. IPG gross margin improvement was due primarily to the higher margin supplies business becoming a greater percentage of IPG net revenue combined with favorable currency impact on net revenue resulting primarily from the weakening of the dollar against the euro. ESSs gross margin improvement primarily reflected cost reductions in the storage and industry standard server businesses as a result of the Compaq acquisition, offset in part by the product mix shift away from higher margin business critical servers toward lower margin industry standard servers. The HPS gross margin decline was attributable primarily to competitive pricing pressures and reduced service levels in the technology services business. In addition, the overall gross margin was impacted favorably by a 0.2 percentage point improvement attributable primarily to inventory adjustments of $147 million in fiscal 2002 resulting from product roadmap decisions. Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expense decreased 8% in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. The decrease was attributable primarily to our workforce reduction efforts and expense control measures. In fiscal 2003, research and development expense decreased in each of our business segments, except for IPG, in which research and development expense increased by 8%. IPGs increase in research and development spending resulted primarily from our continued investment in emerging inkjet technology. In addition, the overall decrease in fiscal 2003 expense was moderated by higher pension and other post retirement costs and unfavorable currency effects of the weakening of the dollar against the euro. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expense remained flat in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. In fiscal 2003, unfavorable currency effects driven mainly by the weakening of the dollar against the euro, higher sales and marketing costs associated with the company wide product branding campaign and higher pension and other post retirement costs offset almost entirely the overall decreases attributable to workforce reduction efforts, expense control measures and lower bad debt expense. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Effective in fiscal 2003 (the date of adoption of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets"), we no longer amortize goodwill and instead test goodwill at least annually for impairment. On a combined company basis, amortization expense decreased by $101 million in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. The decrease in fiscal 2003 expense was due primarily to the elimination of goodwill amortization and the write off of the purchased intangible assets related to our middleware and storage virtualization offerings in fiscal 2002 as a result of product roadmap decisions in connection with the Compaq acquisition. 45 Restructuring Charges On a combined company basis, we recorded restructuring charges of $800 million in fiscal 2003 and $1.8 billion in fiscal 2002. A discussion of the fiscal 2003 and 2002 charges recorded by HP is included in the previous presentation. Acquisition Related Charges In connection with the Compaq acquisition, the combined company incurred acquisition related charges of $280 million in fiscal 2003 and $772 million in fiscal 2002, which charges consisted primarily of costs incurred for employee retention bonuses, consulting services and other professional fees. In addition, the acquisition related charges in fiscal 2002 included costs incurred for proxy solicitation and advertising. In Process Research and Development Charges IPR&D charges are the same on a combined company basis as previously discussed. Interest and Other, Net On a combined company basis, interest and other, net remained essentially flat in fiscal 2003. In fiscal 2003, lower net losses on foreign currency transactions resulting from our balance sheet remeasurement and related hedging strategies as compared to fiscal 2002 were offset almost entirely by lower interest income and higher interest expense on debt. Losses on Investments and Early Extinguishment of Debt On a combined company basis, net losses were $29 million in fiscal 2003 and $70 million in fiscal 2002 due generally to the reasons discussed previously. Dispute Settlement In fiscal 2002 we recorded settlement income of $14 million, as more fully discussed previously. Provision for (Benefit from) Taxes On a combined company basis, our effective tax rate resulted in a 12.1% provision in fiscal 2003 on our pretax earnings and a 12.0% benefit in fiscal 2002 on our pretax loss. Our effective tax rate differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% in fiscal 2003 and 2002 due generally to the reasons discussed previously. Segment Information A description of the products and services, as well as year to date financial data, for each segment can be found in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. We have restated segment financial data for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2003 and 2002 to reflect changes in HPs organizational structure that occurred at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2004. We describe these changes more fully in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. We have presented the business segments in this Form 10 K based on our management organizational structure as of October 31, 2004, and the distinct nature of various businesses. Future changes to this organizational structure may result in changes to the reportable segments disclosed. The discussions 46 below include the results of each of our segments. Supplemental sections of combined company information that discuss our segment operating results as if HP and Compaq had been combined for all of fiscal 2002 are presented in a manner consistent with the supplemental combined company disclosures included in the consolidated operating results discussion. Technology Solutions Group Given the cross segment linkages in our Adaptive Enterprise offering, and in order to capitalize on up selling and cross selling opportunities, ESS, HPS and Software are structured beneath a broader Technology Solutions Group ("TSG"). While TSG is not an operating segment, we sometimes provide financial data aggregating the segments within TSG in order to provide a supplementary view of our business. Each of the reportable segments of TSG is described in more detail below. Enterprise Storage and Servers For the fiscal years ended October 31 2004 2003 2002 In millions Net revenue $ 15,152 $ 14,593 $ 10,402 Earnings (loss) from operations $ 173 $ 142 $ (308 ) Earnings (loss) from operations as a % of net revenue 1.1 % 1.0 % (3.0 )% The components of weighted average net revenue growth, by business unit, for the fiscal years ended October 31 were as follows: 2004 2003 Percentage points Industry standard servers 5.9 29.4 Business critical servers (0.5 ) 4.0 Storage (1.6 ) 6.9 Total ESS 3.8 40.3 ESS net revenue increased 4% in fiscal year 2004 from fiscal 2003. Revenue on a constant currency basis decreased 2%. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro. In fiscal 2004, ESS performance was hurt in the third fiscal quarter by execution issues, namely a systems migration in the U.S., channel management issues in EMEA and weakness in Storage. ESS net revenue growth was, however, helped by industry standard servers unit growth of 22%, which translated to a 12% net revenue increase from fiscal 2003 in that category. Net revenue in business critical servers declined by 2% in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003, reflecting the ongoing decline of the AlphaServer product line. RISC and Itanium based servers experienced revenue growth. We introduced mid range and high end Itanium products widely in fiscal year 2004, and sales continued to increase during the year, with Itanium servers representing 16% of business critical servers in the fourth fiscal quarter. HP UX server revenue increased 2% from fiscal 2003, offset by declines in Alpha as we transition customers to non Alpha products. NonStop server net revenue declined 1% from the prior year, reflecting a maturing installed base. Storage net revenue declined 7%, with declines in both the overall array and tape businesses. Net revenue declines from fiscal 2003 were due primarily to our exposure to the declining tape market, aggressive pricing, inadequate storage sales specialists coverage and some product updates that occurred late in fiscal 2004. Growth in storage 47 software and network attached storage offset partially the revenue decline in the primary product groups. ESS earnings from operations in fiscal 2004 improved by 0.1 percentage points, reflecting a 3.9 percentage point decrease in operating expenses in relation to revenue resulting from effective cost management and increased volume in the industry standard server business. A decline in gross margin of 3.8 percentage points offset the decline in operating expenses and volume growth. The gross margin decline was the result of competitive pressures impacting both the industry standard servers group and the storage business, along with a mix shift to lower margin products within the business critical servers group and more generally the continued mix shift towards industry standard servers within the segment. The business continues to focus on increasing direct sales, improving option attach rates and reducing warranty costs in order to optimize future gross margins. Additionally, the execution issues of the third quarter that led to an operating loss in the quarter hampered full year performance. The increase in ESS year over year operating results in fiscal 2003 was due substantially to the acquisition of Compaq. The significant increases from Compaqs industry standard server business and Compaqs storage and business critical server businesses were the main contributors to the overall net revenue growth in fiscal 2003. Although overall unit sales increased due to the acquisition of Compaq, continued competitive pricing pressures impacted ASPs unfavorably in fiscal 2003. Discontinuance of HPs NetServer and certain storage products as part of the post acquisition product roadmap decisions moderated volume growth. The improvement in the operating margin ratio was attributable primarily to workforce reduction activities and effective cost management, offset in part by a decline in gross margin. The gross margin deterioration reflected competitive pricing pressures and a mix shift toward industry standard servers, which have significantly lower margins than other products in the segment. Enterprise Storage and Servers Supplemental Combined Company Information We present a supplementary discussion of ESS combined company results below. Supplemental Combined Company Information For the fiscal years ended October 31 2003 2002 In millions Net revenue $ 14,593 $ 15,337 Earnings (loss) from operations $ 142 $ (313 ) Earnings (loss) from operations as a % of net revenue 1.0 % (2.0 )% ESSs combined company net revenue declined 5% in fiscal 2003. The net revenue decrease in fiscal 2003 was 10% on a constant currency basis. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro. Overall, segment net revenue in fiscal 2003 continued to be impacted unfavorably by competitive pricing pressures, product roadmap transitions and cautious enterprise IT spending across all business units and most geographic regions. 48 The components of weighted average net revenue growth by business unit were as follows for the fiscal year ended October 31: 2003 Percentage points Business critical servers (5.1 ) Storage (0.5 ) Industry standard servers 0.7 Other Total ESS (4.9 ) The combined company net revenue decline for many business critical server products in fiscal 2003 reflected competitive pricing as well as constraints on enterprise capital spending for large purchases. Low end and mid range UNIX net revenue declined during the period, offset in part by strong growth in high end UNIX servers due to continued strength in Superdome products. NonStop server net revenue declined in fiscal 2003, reflecting weak spending in the telecommunications and financial services industries. Product roadmap transitions in tape libraries due to our exiting the OEM business and decreased sales of legacy arrays, offset in part by a mix shift toward EVA products, drove the storage net revenue decline in fiscal 2003. Unit sales of industry standard servers increased in fiscal 2003 and more than offset the net revenue decline attributable to lower ASPs and a mix shift toward low end servers. Despite unit declines in our NetServer products due to the post acquisition roadmap decision to discontinue this line of servers, total industry standard server units grew approximately 9% in the period due to strong worldwide shipments of our ProLiant servers. Combined company earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue were 1.0% in fiscal 2003. In fiscal 2003, the operating loss improvement of 3.0 percentage points was due to a 1.7 percentage point decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue and a 1.3 percentage point increase in gross margin. Cost savings achieved through workforce reductions and continued cost control measures, offset in part by an unfavorable currency impact, drove the decline in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue in fiscal 2003. The gross margin improvement in the period reflected primarily cost reductions resulting from the Compaq acquisition in the storage and industry standard server businesses, coupled with a product mix shift within business critical servers and storage. An unfavorable mix shift from low and mid range business critical servers toward lower margin industry standard servers moderated the gross margin improvements during the period. HP Services For the fiscal years ended October 31 2004 2003 2002 In millions Net revenue $ 13,778 $ 12,357 $ 9,052 Earnings from operations $ 1,263 $ 1,362 $ 891 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 9.2 % 11.0 % 9.8 % 49 The components of weighted average net revenue growth by business unit were as follows for the fiscal years ended October 31: 2004 2003 Percentage points Managed services 5.8 8.8 Technology services 5.3 23.9 Consulting and integration 0.4 3.7 Other 0.1 Total HPS 11.5 36.5 HPS net revenue increased 12% in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003. On a constant currency basis, net revenue increased 5% in fiscal 2004. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro and the yen. In fiscal 2004, the growth in managed services was due to increased net revenue from new large outsourcing deals and the expansion of services to existing customers, as well as the Triaton acquisition. The growth in technology services net revenue was driven primarily by favorable currency impacts and the Triaton acquisition, along with strength in integrated support, desktop lifecycle and mission critical support solutions. An increase in core consulting and integration services contributed to a slight growth in the consulting and integration business in fiscal 2004, while a decrease in sales of complimentary third party products impacted net revenue for this business negatively. HPS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue declined 1.8 percentage points in fiscal 2004 in part due to the continued growth in managed services, a lower margin business, becoming an increasingly larger part of HPS. Operating profit ratio declines in the managed services and technology services business contributed to the overall segment operating profit ratio decline in fiscal 2004. Large outsourcing contracts at the early stages of their life cycle had lower margins in fiscal 2004, which drove the decline in the managed services operating profit ratio. In the technology services business, competitive pricing pressures in both renewals and new contracts and a mix shift from higher margin support agreements (e.g., Unix) to lower margin contracts (e.g., networking installations and integrated multi vendor support offerings) affected the technology services operating profit ratio and to a lesser degree costs related to the integration of recent acquisitions. The overall operating profit ratio decline was moderated somewhat by an operating profit ratio improvement in the consulting and integration business as a result of a sales force focus on HPs Adaptive Enterprise offerings, customer relationship management and continued process improvements. The increase in HPS year over year operating results in fiscal 2003 was due substantially to the acquisition of Compaq. Although the acquisition of Compaq resulted in an increase in services across all business units in fiscal 2003, our consulting and integration and technology services businesses were impacted unfavorably by the weak demand for IT infrastructure products, the slowdown of enterprise spending, and competitive pricing pressures. Our managed services business benefited from the slowdown in fiscal 2003 as customers reduced costs by outsourcing IT infrastructure. Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 due to expense control measures and workforce reduction initiatives. A shift in the net revenue mix away from the consulting and integration business, which typically has operating profit ratios lower than the segment average, also increased the earnings from operations ratio. 50 HP Services Supplemental Combined Company Information We present a supplementary discussion of HPS combined company results below. Supplemental Combined Company Information For the fiscal years ended October 31 2003 2002 In millions Net revenue $ 12,357 $ 12,368 Earnings from operations $ 1,362 $ 1,370 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 11.0 % 11.1 % HPS combined company net revenue was essentially flat in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. On a constant currency basis, net revenue decreased approximately 6% in fiscal 2003. The favorable currency impact in fiscal 2003 was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro. The components of weighted average net revenue growth, by business unit were as follows for the fiscal year ended October 31: 2003 Percentage points Consulting and integration (4.4 ) Technology services 1.6 Managed services 2.7 Other Total HPS (0.1 ) A decline in core consulting and integration services drove the combined company net revenue decrease in the consulting and integration business in fiscal 2003. The decline in core consulting and integration net revenue reflected competitive pricing pressures and weak demand. An increase in new and existing large outsourcing deals, reflecting the ongoing mix shift toward larger comprehensive deals as customers outsourced substantial portions of their IT infrastructure to HP, as well as favorable currency impacts mentioned above, contributed to the growth in managed services net revenue in fiscal 2003. The growth in technology services net revenue in fiscal 2003 was due primarily to favorable currency impacts. Combined company earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue was 11.0% in fiscal 2003 compared to 11.1% in fiscal 2002. Although the operating profit ratio remained flat in fiscal 2003, operating expenses decreased as a percentage of net revenue through expense control measures and workforce reductions initiated in fiscal 2002, as well as reduced costs reflecting synergies associated with our acquisition of Compaq. A favorable business mix shift away from the consulting and integration business, which typically has an operating profit ratio lower than the segment average, further helped the overall segment operating profit ratio in the period. An operating profit ratio decline in the technology services business reduced fiscal 2003 operating margin. Competitive pricing pressures and reduced service levels had a negative impact on technology services operating margins. Higher pension and post retirement costs resulting from fiscal 2003 changes in underlying assumptions, including a decrease in expected portfolio performance, a decrease in discount rates and an increase in medical cost trend rates, as well as the extension of participation in pension and post retirement benefit 51 plans to eligible pre acquisition Compaq employees in the United States not covered by such plans prior to January 1, 2003 also contributed to the overall segment operating profit ratio decline in fiscal 2003. Software For the fiscal years ended October 31 2004 2003 2002 In millions Net revenue $ 922 $ 774 $ 703 Loss from operations $ (145 ) $ (190 ) $ (348 ) Loss from operations as a % of net revenue (15.7 )% (24.5 )% (49.5 )% In fiscal 2004, Software net revenue increased 19% (16% without acquisitions) from fiscal 2003 and 13% on a constant currency basis. The majority of the currency impact resulted from the weakening of the dollar against the euro. Of the overall 19% net revenue increase, OpenView, our management solutions software product line, represented 13% (10% without acquisitions) percentage points of growth on a weighted average net revenue basis, while OpenCall, our telecommunications solutions product line, contributed the remaining 6 percentage points of the net revenue increase. OpenView net revenue growth was the result of market share gains in a growing market along with the impact of recent acquisitions, which add breadth to our Adaptive Enterprise portfolio. The growth in OpenCall was due to increased spending in the telecommunications industry, associated with the adoption of the next generation of network infrastructure. The operating margin improvement of 8.8 percentage points in fiscal 2004 from fiscal 2003 was driven primarily by a decrease of operating expense as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in operating expense was attributable to effective cost management as operating expenses, particularly marketing and research and development costs, grew slower than net revenue despite the unfavorable impact of currency and increased acquisition related costs. There was some gross margin decline, resulting from an increasingly competitive pricing environment. In fiscal year 2003, software net revenue increased by 10% when compared to fiscal 2002, due primarily to the acquisition of Compaq. Of the overall 10% revenue increase, on a weighted average basis OpenView represented 6 percentage points of the increase, while OpenCall contributed the remaining 4 percentage points of the revenue increase. The addition of Compaq products (primarily in OpenCall) more than offset the decline in sales of similar HP products, which resulted from continued weakness in the telecommunications industry across all geographical regions. OpenView net revenue growth was the result of market share gains in a growing market. In fiscal 2003, the improvement in the operating margin ratio of 25.0 percentage points from fiscal 2002 was attributable primarily to workforce reductions and effective cost management, offset in part by the unfavorable impact of currency. The gross margin improvement reflected a product mix shift towards higher margin OpenView products. 52 Software Supplemental Combined Company Information We present a supplementary discussion of Software combined company results below. Supplemental Combined Company Information For the fiscal years ended October 31 2003 2002 In millions Net revenue $ 774 $ 817 Loss from operations $ (190 ) $ (349 ) Loss from operations as a % of net revenue (24.5 )% (42.7 )% In fiscal 2003, Software combined company net revenue declined 5% compared to fiscal 2002. Of the overall net revenue decrease, OpenCall accounted for 10 percentage points of the decline on a weighted average net revenue basis, partially offset by an increase in OpenView net revenue of 5 percentage points. The decline in OpenCall resulted from continued weakness in the telecommunications industry, across all geographical regions. OpenView net revenue growth was the result of market share gains in a growing market. The fiscal 2003 software operating margin improvement of 18.2 percentage points compared to fiscal 2002 was due to a 9.5 percentage point decrease in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue, along with an 8.7 percentage points increase in gross margin. Cost savings achieved through workforce reductions and continued cost control measures, offset in part by the unfavorable impact of currency, drove the decline in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue in fiscal 2003. The gross margin improvement reflected a product mix shift towards higher margin OpenView products. Personal Systems Group For the fiscal years ended October 31 2004 2003 2002 In millions Net revenue $ 24,622 $ 21,210 $ 14,680 Earnings (loss) from operations $ 210 $ 22 $ (236 ) Earnings (loss) from operations as a % of net revenue 0.9 % 0.1 % (1.6 )% The components of weighted average net revenue growth, by business unit were as follows for the fiscal years ended October 31: 2004 2003 Percentage points Desktop PCs 7.9 21.9 Notebook PCs 7.1 19.6 Handhelds 0.7 2.0 Workstations 0.4 1.1 Other (0.1 ) Total PSG 16.1 44.5 53  PSGs net revenue increased 16% in fiscal 2004 from fiscal 2003. On a constant currency basis, the increase was 10%. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro. In fiscal 2004, the net revenue increase across all businesses was the result primarily of an overall 17% volume increase. Volume increases were the result of strong market growth in both consumer and commercial segments, our re entry into the China market, and the introduction of new products such as the media center PCs, widescreen notebook PCs, converged devices and a broader product line offering in pen based iPaqs. In fiscal 2004, consumer and commercial desktop PC volumes increased 15% and 11%, respectively, while notebook PC volume increased 21%. The volume increase was moderated by a slight decline in ASPs. The ASP decline was due to a mix shift toward lower end personal workstations and iPaq handhelds, as well as component cost declines, and was offset partially by a strong monitor attach rate in business PCs. Year over year net revenue increases in consumer and commercial desktop PCs were 15% and 12%, respectively, while notebook PC net revenue increased 22%. PSGs earnings from operations as a percent of net revenue was 0.9% in fiscal 2004 compared to 0.1% in fiscal 2003. The increase is the result of volume increases and a decline in operating expenses of 1.3 percentage points, offset by a decline in gross margin of 0.4 percentage points. The operating expense decline is due to headcount reductions, tightening of administrative costs, lower research and development spending, and scale efficiencies in selling and marketing costs. The gross margin decline is due primarily to continued competitive pressures in Europe, expansion into developing markets and a shift towards lower end products. The increase in PSGs year over year operating results in fiscal 2003 was due substantially to the acquisition of Compaq in fiscal 2002. Although the acquisition of Compaq resulted in an increase in unit sales, the continued competitive pricing environment impacted ASPs unfavorably in fiscal 2003. The execution of post acquisition product roadmap decisions, which included the discontinuance of the HP Vectra and Jornada product lines, impacted commercial desktop PC and handheld volumes unfavorably in fiscal 2003. Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased during fiscal 2003 due to a decrease in operating expenses, primarily from headcount reductions and tightening of administrative costs, as well as lower research and development spending and an improvement in gross margin. The gross margin improvement was the result primarily of our reduced direct and indirect procurement costs reflecting synergies associated with our acquisition of Compaq, as well as a shift toward our lower cost direct business. Personal Systems Group Supplemental Combined Company Information We present a supplementary discussion of PSGs combined company results below. Supplemental Combined Company Information For the fiscal years ended October 31 2003 2002 In millions Net revenue $ 21,210 $ 21,869 Earnings (loss) from operations $ 22 $ (367 ) Earnings (loss) from operations as a % of net revenue 0.1 % (1.7 )% 54 PSGs combined company net revenue declined 3% in fiscal 2003. The net revenue decrease in fiscal 2003 was 8% on a constant currency basis. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro. The components of weighted average net revenue growth, by business unit were as follows for the fiscal year ended October 31: 2003 Percentage points Desktop PCs (5.8 ) Other PSG (0.1 ) Workstations (0.1 ) Handhelds Notebook PCs 3.0 Total PSG (3.0 ) The combined company net revenue decline in fiscal 2003 resulted from a decline in average selling prices across all businesses within PSG and, to a lesser extent, a decline in volumes in commercial and consumer desktop PCs. The decline in average selling prices during the period was attributable to the realignment of product prices. The continued mix shift from desktops to notebooks impacted unfavorably consumer and commercial desktop PC volumes. Additionally, the commercial desktop PC volume decline in the period was due to the execution of post acquisition product roadmap decisions, which included the discontinuance of the HP Vectra product line. Notebook PC volumes increased in fiscal 2003 compared to the prior year, due to increased product competitiveness, a broader product portfolio, and the previously mentioned mix shift from desktops to notebooks, offset in part the desktop PC decreases. In addition to the increase in notebook PC volumes, handheld volumes increased due to new product introductions. The combined company earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue was 0.1% in fiscal 2003 compared to a loss of 1.7% in fiscal 2002. In fiscal 2003, an improvement in gross margin as a percentage of net revenue represented 1.1 percentage points of the 1.8 percentage point increase, while the remaining 0.7 percentage point increase was due to a decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. The gross margin improvement resulted from our reduced direct and indirect procurement costs, reflecting synergies associated with our acquisition of Compaq, moderated by the declining ASPs described above. The operating expense improvement resulted from headcount reductions, tightening of administrative costs and lower research and development expense. Imaging and Printing Group For the fiscal years ended October 31 2004 2003 2002 In millions Net revenue $ 24,199 $ 22,569 $ 20,358 Earnings from operations $ 3,847 $ 3,596 $ 3,365 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 15.9 % 15.9 % 16.5 % 55 IPGs net revenue grew 7% in fiscal 2004 and 11% in fiscal 2003. On a constant currency basis, the net revenue increase was 2% in fiscal 2004 and 5% in fiscal 2003. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro. The components of weighted average net revenue growth, by business unit were as follows for the fiscal years ended October 31: 2004 2003 Percentage points Printer supplies 5.3 7.6 Business printer hardware 1.7 1.6 Digital imaging products 0.7 Home printer hardware (0.1 ) 0.5 Other 0.3 0.5 Total IPG 7.2 10.9 The growth in printer supplies net revenue in fiscal 2004 reflected higher volumes as a result of the continued expansion of the printer hardware installed base, due primarily to the strong performance of color related products and digital photography initiatives. In fiscal 2004, the growth in business printer hardware net revenue was attributable to unit volume growth in color laser printers, business inkjet printers, monochrome laser printers and the increasing demand for multi function printers. A continued shift in demand to lower priced products and a competitive pricing environment moderated the net revenue increase in business printer hardware during the period. Net revenue remained unchanged in digital imaging products as a result of growth in camera unit shipments, offset by a decrease in sales of scanners due to a declining market. The decline in home printer hardware was driven by decreases in ASPs due to the continued shift in demand to lower priced products, particularly in the sub $200 all in one market, as well as a decline in sales of single function devices. In fiscal 2004, earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue were 15.9%, consistent with fiscal 2003. As a percentage of net revenue, both operating expense and gross margin remained flat in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003. Gross margin improvement in supplies was due in part to cost reductions and volume increases moderated by a mix shift to lower margin products. Gross margin improvement also was the result of favorable mix shifts in home printer hardware. Gross margin declines in digital imaging and business printer hardware, due in part to a shift to lower margin products in an increasingly competitive pricing environment, moderated the improvement. Within total operating expense, there was a slight increase in administrative expense, offset by a slight decline in selling costs, while both research and development costs and marketing costs, as a percentage of net revenue, remained flat for fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2003, growth in printer supplies net revenue reflected higher volumes as a result of continued expansion of the printer hardware installed base. Sales of color and low end monochrome printers as well as multi function printers and digital press products drove the net revenue increase in business printer hardware during the period. A continued shift in demand to lower priced products and a competitive pricing environment moderated the net revenue increase in business printer hardware during the period. Net revenue growth in digital imaging products in fiscal 2003 was attributable to sales of newly introduced cameras and Photosmart printers that were part of the segments consumer launch in the last half of fiscal 2002 and new models of cameras and Photosmart printers introduced in the consumer launch in fiscal 2003, offset in part by a decrease in sales of scanners due to the declining 56 scanner market. The net revenue increase in home printer hardware in fiscal 2003 was attributable to a significant volume increase in all in one devices, as well as a shift from single function printers to multi function devices. Decreases in ASPs due to the continued shift in demand to lower priced products, particularly in the sub $200 all in one market, as well as decreases in sales of single function devices, moderated home printer net hardware revenue growth during the period. In fiscal 2003, IPGs earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue were 15.9% compared to 16.5% in fiscal 2002. In fiscal 2003, the 0.6 net percentage point decrease in earnings from operations ratio consisted of a 0.8 percentage point increase in operating expense as a percentage of revenue, offset by an improvement in gross margin of 0.2 percentage points. The increase in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue was driven mainly by increased marketing costs associated with a company wide product branding campaign and selling costs associated with an increased focus on commercial sales in the segment, as well as unfavorable currency impacts. Gross margin improved due primarily to a mix of less low margin hardware, an increase in the supplies business, which typically has gross margins that exceed the segment average, becoming a greater percentage of total segment net revenue, as well as a favorable currency impact on net revenue resulting from the strengthening of the euro as noted above offset partially the operating expense ratio increase. Gross margin decline in business printer hardware and digital imaging products reflecting a shift to lower priced printing and imaging products and continued competitive pricing offset partially the gross margin improvement. Imaging and Printing Group Supplemental Combined Company Information As Compaq did not have a comparable imaging and printing business, IPGs historical results are not materially different from the combined company results below. Supplemental Combined Company Information For the fiscal years ended October 31 2003 2002 In millions Net revenue $ 22,569 $ 20,399 Earnings from operations $ 3,596 $ 3,366 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 15.9 % 16.5 % HP Financial Services For the fiscal years ended October 31 2004 2003 2002 In millions Net revenue $ 1,895 $ 1,921 $ 1,707 Earnings (loss) from operations $ 125 $ 79 $ (134 ) Earnings (loss) from operations as a % of net revenue 6.6 % 4.1 % (7.9 )% HPFS net revenue decreased 1% in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003. The decrease resulted primarily from lower average levels of revenue generating assets and lower used equipment sales. The decrease in average assets was due to portfolio amortization and asset sales exceeding new lease originations throughout most of the year. Lower interest rates also contributed to the net revenue decrease. 57 In fiscal 2004, the 2.5 net percentage point increase in the earnings from operations ratio consisted of a 1.3 percentage point increase in gross margin and a 1.2 percentage point decrease in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue. The gross margin improvement was driven by higher portfolio profitability resulting primarily from end of lease transactions and, to a lesser extent, lower interest costs as a percentage of net revenue. The gross margin increase was offset in part by higher reserves related to certain aged receivables, particularly in Europe, the Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Cost savings achieved through continued cost controls, offset in part by an unfavorable currency impact, caused the decline in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The acquisition of Compaq caused a substantial portion of the fluctuation in HPFS operating results in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. The acquisition resulted in higher revenue generating assets; however, a slowdown in lease originations moderated the net revenue increase. In fiscal 2003, earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue improved from fiscal 2002 due to a significant reduction in bad debt expense, coupled with a decline in interest costs as a percentage of net revenue. Financing Originations For the fiscal years ended October 31 2004 2003 2002 In millions Total financing originations $ 3,852 $ 3,784 $ 3,490 New financing originations increased 2% in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003. The increase resulted from higher levels of financing in Asia Pacific and a favorable currency impact, offset in part by a lower penetration rate of HP sales. Originations increased 8% in fiscal 2003 from fiscal 2002 due to the acquisition of Compaq. The impacts of strengthened credit controls, weakness in the global economy and lower average selling prices of HP products offset in part the increase in originations. Portfolio Assets and Ratios HPFS is a financial services organization and, as such, maintains a strategy to generate a competitive return on equity by effectively leveraging its portfolio against the risks associated with interest rates and credit. The HPFS business model is asset intensive, and uses certain internal metrics to measure its performance against other financial services companies, including a segment balance sheet that is derived from HPs internal management reporting system. The accounting policies used to derive these amounts are substantially the same as those used by the consolidated company. However, certain intercompany loans and accounts that are reflected in the segment balances are eliminated in HPs Consolidated Financial Statements. A reconciliation of segment assets to consolidated total assets 58 is included in Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The portfolio assets and ratios derived from the segment balance sheet for HPFS were as follows at October 31: 2004(1) 2003 In millions Portfolio assets $ 7,380 $ 7,171 Allowance for doubtful accounts 213 210 Operating lease equipment reserve 51 30 Total reserve 264 240 Net portfolio assets $ 7,116 $ 6,931 Reserve coverage 3.6 % 3.3 % Debt to equity ratio 5.1 x 4.5 x (1)Portfolio assets include financing receivables of $5.3 billion and net equipment under operating leases of $1.4 billion as disclosed in Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, as well as approximately $400 million of capitalized profit on intercompany equipment transactions and approximately $300 million of intercompany leases, both of which are eliminated in consolidation. Portfolio assets at October 31, 2004 increased 3% from the end of fiscal 2003. The increase resulted from higher financing originations and a favorable currency impact. The percentage of portfolio assets reserved increased in fiscal 2004 primarily due to higher reserves related to certain aged receivables in EMEA, offset in part by the write off of assets covered by specific reserves. HPFS funds its operations mainly through a combination of intercompany debt and working capital. The portfolio assets and ratios are derived from the segment balance sheet. The increase in the debt to equity ratio reflects a planned increase in portfolio leverage. HP Financial Services Supplemental Combined Company Information We present a supplementary discussion of HPFS combined company results below: Supplemental Combined Company Information For the fiscal years ended October 31 2003 2002 In millions Net revenue $ 1,921 $ 2,088 Earnings (loss) from operations $ 79 $ (128 ) Earnings (loss) from operations as a % of net revenue 4.1 % (6.1 )% HPFS combined company net revenue declined 8% in fiscal 2003. Lower lease originations during fiscal 2003 contributed to the decrease in net revenue. Strengthened credit controls and the ongoing weakness in the global economy resulted in the decrease in lease originations and the related decrease in revenue generating assets. Decreases in ASPs of HP products also were a factor in the decrease in lease originations in fiscal 2003. Increased revenue from used equipment sales and other mid term and end of term portfolio activities moderated the net revenue decrease. 59 Combined company earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue were 4.1% in fiscal 2003 compared to a loss of 6.1% in fiscal 2002. In fiscal 2003, a reduction in bad debt expense for customer write offs resulting from strengthened global credit standards and a stronger portfolio resulted in the majority of the operating profit ratio improvement. Lower interest costs as a percentage of net revenue also had a positive impact on the ratio. Corporate Investments For the fiscal years ended October 31 2004 2003 2002 In millions Net revenue $ 449 $ 344 $ 288 Loss from operations $ (178 ) $ (161 ) $ (232 ) Loss from operations as a % of net revenue (39.6 )% (46.8 )% (80.6 )% In fiscal 2004, the majority of the net revenue in this segment related to network infrastructure products, which grew 27% from fiscal 2003 and was the result of continued enhancements in the overall product portfolio, particularly in gigabit Ethernet switch products. In fiscal year 2003, the year over year net revenue growth in network infrastructure products was 18% due to increased volumes from a new product platform. In fiscal 2004, expenses related to corporate development, global alliances and HP Labs increased 10% from the prior fiscal year. The increase was the result in part of increased investment in strategic initiatives. In fiscal 2003, expenses related to corporate development, global alliances and HP Labs decreased 13% from fiscal 2002 due to the winding down of several incubation programs. These expenses contributed to the majority of the loss in this segments results. These expenses were offset in part by operating profit from network infrastructure product sales for all of the periods presented. Operating profit for the network infrastructure product group declined slightly in fiscal 2004 due mostly to increased operating expense levels, primarily related to headcount growth in research and development, sales and marketing. Operating profit from network infrastructure product sales increased in fiscal 2003 due in part to the successful launch of a new platform of modular Ethernet switches, which reduced the overall operating loss for Corporate Investments for that year. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside the United States. Most of the amounts held outside the United States could be repatriated to the United States, but, under current law, would be subject to United States federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. Repatriation of some foreign balances is restricted by local laws. HP has provided for the United States federal tax liability on these amounts for financial statement purposes, except for foreign earnings that are considered indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, enacted on October 22, 2004 (the "Jobs Act"), provides for a temporary 85% dividends received deduction on certain foreign earnings repatriated during a one year period. The deduction would result in an approximate 5.25% federal tax rate on the repatriated earnings. To qualify for the deduction, the earnings must be reinvested in the United States pursuant to a domestic reinvestment plan established by a companys chief executive officer and 60 approved by its board of directors. Certain other criteria in the Jobs Act must be satisfied as well. The maximum amount of HPs foreign earnings that qualify for the temporary deduction is $14.5 billion. For HP, the one year period during which the qualifying distributions can be made is fiscal 2005. HP is in the process of evaluating whether it will repatriate any foreign earnings under the repatriation provisions of the Jobs Act and, if so, the amount that it will repatriate. The range of reasonably possible amounts that HP is considering for repatriation, which would be eligible for the temporary deduction, is zero to $14.5 billion. HP is awaiting the issuance of further regulatory guidance and passage of statutory technical corrections with respect to certain provisions in the Jobs Act prior to determining the amounts it will repatriate. If such regulatory guidance or technical corrections are favorable, HP is likely to repatriate amounts in the high end of our range. HP expects to determine the amounts and sources of foreign earnings to be repatriated, if any, during the third quarter of fiscal 2005. Use of the funds will be governed by a domestic reinvestment plan, as required by the Jobs Act. Repatriation of the maximum amount eligible for the temporary deduction, which is $14.5 billion, could result in additional United States federal income tax expense, which HP currently estimates to be between $850 million and $925 million, in fiscal 2005. Repatriation also would substantially increase liquidity in the United States, although use of the additional liquidity would be restricted by the domestic reinvestment plan. There would be a corresponding reduction in liquidity at HPs foreign subsidiaries. Some foreign subsidiaries would be required to borrow in order to repatriate their earnings to the U.S. We expect HPs significant positive foreign cash flows would be sufficient to repay any foreign debt and replenish foreign cash balances over time. Should HP decide not to repatriate foreign earnings under the Jobs Act, we would meet United States liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowing, or both. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. FINANCIAL CONDITION Our total cash and cash equivalents declined approximately 11%, to $12.7 billion at October 31, 2004 from $14.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2003. Year over year net borrowings also declined 5.8%, or $440 million, to $7.1 billion at October 31, 2004. Improved net earnings in fiscal 2004 helped generate $5.1 billion in cash from operating activities. The cash generated by operations in fiscal 2004 funded nearly 77% of the $6.6 billion in fiscal 2004 investing and financing activities, with the remaining 23% coming from cash reserves due to our strong cash position. The $6.6 billion used for investing and financing activities includes $4.4 billion for share repurchases and acquisitions during fiscal 2004, compared to $900 million of share repurchases and acquisitions in fiscal 2003. Our cash position remains strong and, as previously discussed, our liquidity in the United States may improve in fiscal 2005 due to HPs alternatives under the repatriation provisions of the Jobs Act. 61  For the fiscal years ended October 31 2004 2003 2002 In millions Net cash provided by operating activities $ 5,088 $ 6,057 $ 5,444 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (2,454 ) (1,512 ) 3,118 Net cash used in financing activities (4,159 ) (1,549 ) (1,567 ) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (1,525 ) $ 2,996 $ 6,995 Key Performance Metrics October 31 2004 2003 2002 Days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable 43 40 42 Days of supply in inventory 39 37 40 Days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable (52 ) (56 ) (47 ) Cash conversion cycle 30 21 35 Days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable ("DSO") measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. DSO is calculated by dividing accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90 day average net revenue. Days of supply in inventory ("DOS") measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. DOS is calculated by dividing inventory by a 90 day average cost of goods sold. Days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable ("DPO") measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. DPO is calculated by dividing accounts payable by a 90 day average cost of goods sold. Our working capital requirements depend upon our effective management of the cash conversion cycle, which represents effectively the number of days from the purchase of raw materials, to the collection of cash from our customers. The cash conversion cycle is the sum of DSO and DOS less DPO. 2004 Compared to 2003 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities declined by 16% during fiscal 2004. Although our cash position benefited from higher earnings, lower payments for restructuring actions and decreased pension and other post retirement contributions, these improvements were not sufficient to offset the increase in the cash conversion cycle, which rose to 30 days in fiscal 2004 compared to 21 days in fiscal 2003. The lengthening of the cash conversion cycle was due largely to a $2.3 billion increase in accounts receivable and inventory at October 31, 2004 as compared to the prior year and the timing of accounts payable payments. Accounts receivable was impacted unfavorably by currency fluctuations as the U.S. dollar weakened against the euro and a change in the mix of the accounts receivable portfolio. The October 31, 2004 portfolio included a larger portion of U.S. retail and European direct receivables, 62 which generally have longer payment terms compared to the shorter payment terms of commercial receivables. Higher inventory levels at October 31, 2004 reflect planned increases in certain inventories in preparation for the 2004 holiday season as well as a change in the timing of new product rollouts, particularly within IPG and PSG. HP introduced these products on a staggered basis during the latter half of fiscal 2004, with certain IPG products rolled out in the first month of fiscal 2005, as compared to the more focused marketing rollout in the third quarter of fiscal 2003. In addition, ESS inventory levels increased due primarily to backlog associated with industry standard servers, which occurred as a result of component availability at quarter end. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities rose by 62% primarily due to $1.1 billion spent for several business acquisitions, including Triaton GmbH, Synstar plc and Digital GlobalSoft Limited, during fiscal 2004 as compared to the $149 million spent on acquisitions in fiscal 2003. Capital expenditures increased only slightly, by 7%, during fiscal 2004, with the increase mostly offset by asset disposition activities. Financing Activities The significant increase in net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2004 resulted from a higher level of share repurchases compared to fiscal 2003. The increase in share repurchases during 2004 reflects our confidence in our long term growth and profitability. We repurchase shares of our common stock under a systematic program to manage the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and for other purposes. This program authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions. During fiscal year 2004 HPs Board of Directors authorized $5.0 billion for future repurchases of outstanding shares, including $3.0 billion authorized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. We completed share repurchases of approximately 172 million shares for $3.3 billion in fiscal 2004, including approximately 72 million shares under an accelerated share repurchase program, as compared to repurchases of 40 million shares for $751 million in fiscal 2003. In November 2004, the first quarter of fiscal 2005, we closed the accelerated share repurchase program for a final average purchase price of $18.82 per share. At the price levels at which we have been repurchasing shares, we believe the HP shares represent an attractive investment. We intend to continue to repurchase shares opportunistically as a means of returning cash to stockholders as well as offsetting dilution from the issuance of shares under employee benefit plans. As of October 31, 2004, we had remaining authorization of approximately $2.9 billion for future share repurchases. Proceeds from the issuance of stock options and shares sold to employees under the stock purchase plan were $570 million, or 18% higher in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003, mainly because of higher overall market prices during fiscal 2004. Also during fiscal 2004, borrowing activity as compared to the prior fiscal year was significantly reduced. Net debt repayments in fiscal 2004 totaled $448 million and reflected lower net levels of commercial paper borrowings and current maturities payable. Fiscal 2003 borrowings activity included the issuance of debt as well as repayments, which on a net repayment basis totaled $303 million. 63 2003 Compared to 2002 Operating Activities The increase in net cash provided by operations in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 resulted primarily from higher earnings compared to a loss in fiscal 2002, as well as an increase in accounts payable. Improved management of the payables function and a contract manufacturing transition for some of our laptop products to China contributed to the increase in accounts payable at the end of fiscal 2003. Increases in inventory, continued severance payments through our restructuring programs, pension contributions and increases in receivables from contract manufacturers offset partially the increases in cash flow provided from operations. Investing Activities The change in net cash flows from investing activities from fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 was due primarily to the $3.6 billion of cash acquired in the Compaq acquisition in fiscal 2002, as well as $879 million recorded upon the dissolution of our equity method investment in Liquidity Management Corporation ("LMC"), when it became a wholly owned subsidiary on November 1, 2001. In addition, net capital expenditures were $1.6 billion in fiscal 2003 as compared to $1.3 billion in fiscal 2002. Capital expenditure increases in fiscal 2003 related mainly to assets under lease by HPFS to third parties and to continued investment in IPG manufacturing equipment. In fiscal 2002, capital expenditures related primarily to financing assets and manufacturing investments across our businesses. HPFS capital expenditures in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 increased primarily as a result of the acquisition of Compaq in the third quarter of fiscal 2002. Financing Activities The slight decrease in net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 was due primarily to a decrease in net repayments of total debt to approximately $303 million in fiscal 2003 compared to net repayments of $472 million in fiscal 2002 and, to a lesser extent, from an increase in cash generated by issuances of common stock under various employee stock plans. These increases were offset in part by an increase in repurchases of approximately 40 million shares for $751 million in fiscal 2003 and 40 million shares for $671 million in fiscal 2002. LIQUIDITY As previously discussed, we use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity, since we believe that internally generated cash flows are sufficient to support business operations, capital expenditures and the payment of stockholder dividends, in addition to a level of discretionary investments and share repurchases. We are able to supplement this near term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and credit line facilities through various foreign subsidiaries as well as with U.S. financial institutions. We maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities and the overall cost of capital. Outstanding debt at fiscal year end 2004 decreased to $7.1 billion as compared to $7.6 billion at fiscal year end 2003, bearing weighted average interest rates of 5.3% and 5.2%, respectively. Short term borrowings increased to $2.5 billion at October 31, 2004 from $1.1 billion at October 31, 2003. The increase reflects $1.5 billion of Global Notes maturing in 2005. In addition, during fiscal 2004, we issued $4.1 billion and repaid $4.3 billion of 64 commercial paper. HP did not issue long term debt during fiscal 2004, although HP assumed insignificant amounts in association with our acquisitions. We entered into a six year revolving agreement during the third quarter of fiscal 2004 to sell certain trade receivables without recourse. Sold receivables are then collected by the third party, with the sales of receivables limited only by the outstanding maximum balance of receivables not yet collected by the third party. Trade receivables of approximately 680 million euros were sold during fiscal 2004, primarily during the fourth quarter. As of October 31, 2004, the aggregate receivables sold but not yet collected by the third party were approximately 253 million euros, compared to the maximum amount of 600 million euros permitted under the agreement at that date. The implementation of this agreement did not have a material impact on HPs DSO as utilization of this program was limited to certain customer receivables that HP already managed under an alternative prompt payment program. Fees associated with this program do not differ materially from the cash discounts offered to these customers under the alternative prompt payment program. We have the following resources available to obtain short term or long term financings, if we need additional liquidity: At October 31, 2004 Original Amount Available Used Available In millions 2002 registration statement Debt, global securities and up to $1,500 of Series B Medium Term Notes $ 3,000 $ 2,000 $ 1,000 Euro Medium Term Notes 3,000 954 2,046 U. S. Credit Facilities Expiring March 2005 1,500 1,500 Expiring March 2009 1,500 1,500 Lines of credit 2,566 103 2,463 Commercial paper programs U.S. 4,000 4,000 Euro 500 306 194 $ 16,066 $ 3,363 $ 12,703 The securities issuable under the 2002 registration statement include notes with due dates of nine months or more from issuance. HP uses U.S. credit facilities for general corporate purposes, including to support our U.S. commercial paper program. We have begun talks with lenders to renegotiate or replace the 364 day credit facility expiring in March 2005. The lines of credit are uncommitted and are primarily available through various foreign subsidiaries. We do not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our debt. However, a downgrade in our credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under our credit facilities. Also, a downgrade in our credit rating could limit or, in the case of a significant downgrade, preclude our ability to issue commercial paper under our current programs. If this occurs, we would seek alternative sources of funding, including the issuance of notes under our existing shelf registration statement and our Euro Medium Term Note Programme or our credit facilities. 65 HP, and not the HPFS financing business, issued or assumed the vast majority of HPs total outstanding debt. HPFS is a financial services organization and, like other financial services companies, has a business model that is asset intensive in nature and therefore is more debt dependent than our other business segments. At October 31, 2004, HPFS had approximately $7.1 billion in net portfolio assets, which include short and long term financing receivables and operating lease assets. Contractual Obligations The impact that our contractual obligations as of October 31, 2004 are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods is as follows: Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years In millions Long term debt, including capital lease obligations(1) $ 6,668 $ 1,861 $ 3,175 $ 565 $ 1,067 Operating lease obligations 2,181 521 759 541 360 Purchase obligations(2) 1,007 452 287 150 118 Restructuring related obligations(3) 294 195 59 23 17 Total $ 10,150 $ 3,029 $ 4,280 $ 1,279 $ 1,562 (1)Amounts represent the expected cash payments of our long term debt and include the fair value adjustment. Included in our long term debt are approximately $54 million of capital lease obligations that are secured by certain equipment. (2)Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on HP and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable without penalty. These purchase obligations are related principally to cost of sales, inventory and other items. (3)As a result of our approved restructuring plans, we expect future cash expenditures of approximately $294 million, primarily for employee severance and other employee benefits and facilities costs. Of this amount, $288 million is recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at October 31, 2004, and $6 million will be expensed in future periods as the costs are incurred or the requirements to record the costs as a liability are met. In addition to the contractual obligations noted in the table above, we also have the following funding commitments. In fiscal 2004, we made contributions of approximately $564 million to our pension plans and $49 million to our post retirement benefit plans, for a total of $613 million, compared to a total of approximately $1.2 billion in fiscal 2003. We estimate that we will contribute a total of approximately $910 million to the pension and post retirement plans during fiscal 2005. Our funding policy is to contribute cash to our pension plans so that we meet the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government funding and taxing authorities. In the current fiscal year, we will continue to contribute cash to our global pension plans in amounts that are consistent with local funding requirements and tax considerations. 66 We issued approximately 53 million non transferable contingent value rights ("CVRs") in connection with our acquisition of Indigo that entitle each holder to a one time contingent cash payment of up to $4.50 per CVR, based on the achievement of certain cumulative revenue results over a three year period. The future cash pay out, if any, of the CVRs will be payable after a three year period that began on April 1, 2002 and could result in a maximum obligation of $237 million. HP has not incurred a liability associated with CVRs as of October 31, 2004. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities ("SPEs"), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of October 31, 2004, we are not involved in any material unconsolidated SPE transactions. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, HP enters into contractual arrangements under which HP may agree to indemnify the third party to such arrangement from any losses incurred relating to the services they perform on behalf of HP or for losses arising from certain events as defined within the particular contract, which may include, for example, litigation or claims relating to past performance. Such indemnification obligations may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, payments made related to these indemnifications have been immaterial. FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target our key market segments. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, distribution, range of products and services, account relationships, customer service and support, security, and availability of application software. If our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, it could harm our operations, results and prospects. Further, we may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and therefore our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. Even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline due to increased competition from other types of products or because the product is in a maturing industry. Industry consolidation may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially 67 stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. If we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer. The process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. We must make long term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. After we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly and at low costs. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mix of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at all or within a given products life cycle. Any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product could result in our not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. In addition, in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third party components included in our products. In order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the cause of the problem and to determine appropriate solutions. However, we may have limited ability to control quality issues, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. If we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch"), we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and could adversely affect our revenue and reported results. Finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we do not effectively manage our product and services transitions, our revenue may suffer. Many of the industries in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance, software functionality and features; frequent introduction of new products; short product life cycles; and continual improvement in product price characteristics relative to product performance. If we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenue may decline. Among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases in anticipation of new introductions, difficulty in predicting customer demand for the new offerings and effectively managing inventory levels in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification and evaluation of new products and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. Our revenue and gross margin also may suffer due to the timing of product or service introductions by our suppliers and competitors. This is especially challenging when a product has a short life cycle or a competitor introduces a new product just before our own product introduction. Furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting, of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of even a successful introduction. There also may be overlaps in the current products and services of HP and portfolios acquired through mergers and acquisitions that we must 68 manage. In addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new customer contracts in accordance with our revenue, margin and cost estimates, and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. Given the competitive nature of our industry, if any of these risks materialize, future demand for our products and services and our results of operations may suffer. Our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and products used in our operations. However, any of our direct or indirect intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross licenses. Third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time consuming and costly to defend and divert managements attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual agreements to us. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could suffer. Further, our costs of operations could be affected on an ongoing basis by the imposition of copyright levies or similar fees by rights holders or collection agencies in certain jurisdictions, primarily in Europe. In addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition transaction third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to the transaction. Consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these agreements. Economic uncertainty could affect adversely, our revenue, gross margin and expenses. Our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for computing and imaging products and services in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness and constrained IT spending has previously resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and realize customer receivables. In addition, customer financial difficulties have previously resulted, and could result in the future, in increases in bad debt write offs and additions to reserves in our receivables portfolio, inability by our lessees to make required lease payments and 69 reduction in the value of leased equipment upon its return to us compared to the value estimated at lease inception. We also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write downs, charges associated with the cancellation of planned production line expansion, and increases in pension and post retirement benefit expenses. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses and impairment of investments. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Delays or reductions in information technology spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and consequently our results of operations, prospects and stock price. Terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. Terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to HP, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers, which could significantly impact our revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. Terrorist attacks create many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may materially harm our business and results of operations. The potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the ongoing military operations in Iraq, have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and stock price in ways that we cannot presently predict. In addition, as a major multi national company with headquarters and significant operations located in the United States, actions against or by the United States may impact our business or employees. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. Sales outside the United States make up more than half of our revenue. Our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition also could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a countrys or regions economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; currency fluctuations, particularly in the euro and the Japanese yen, which contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions and also affect our reported results expressed in U.S. dollars; longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; 70  local labor conditions and regulations; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax efficient manner and changes in tax laws; fluctuations in freight costs and disruptions at important geographic points of exit and entry; natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis and typhoons; and medical disasters, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome. The factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the United States. For example, we rely on manufacturers in Taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California and Asia, near major earthquake faults. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake and related natural disasters. In addition, some areas, including California and parts of the East Coast and Midwest of the United States, have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, major power shortages and blackouts. These blackouts could cause disruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors and resellers, or customers. We are predominantly self insured for losses and interruptions caused by earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters. If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margin and profitability could suffer. We use a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and consumers. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach all of the potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most 71 advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore profitability. Other distribution risks are described below. Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. Our future operating results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. Moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness and industry consolidation. Revenue from indirect sales could suffer and we could experience disruptions in distribution if our distributors financial conditions or operations weaken. Our inventory management will be complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. We must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. Distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end user demand. Our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. If we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. We also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. We depend on third party suppliers, and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to manage supplier issues properly. Our manufacturing operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components and products and our suppliers ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components and products at reasonable prices in time for us to meet critical manufacturing and distribution schedules. Given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are dispersed across the globe, and the long lead times that are required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in planning production and managing inventory levels that could seriously harm us. We also rely on third party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. We also could be exposed to various legal claims relating to their status. Other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply and risks related to fixed price contracts that would require us to pay more than the open market price, as described below. Shortages. Occasionally we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain supplies as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints or other problems experienced by suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these supplies may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the supplies may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough supplies at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide 72 services in a timely manner in the quantities or specifications needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margin could suffer as we could lose time sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or service offerings, resulting in further costs and delays. Oversupply. In order to secure supplies for the provision of products or services or to secure workers in critical areas, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers, or we may enter into non cancelable commitments with vendors. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components or we could have an oversupply of workers in certain areas, any of which could adversely affect our gross margin. Our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. Long term pricing commitments. As a result of binding price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase supplies or services or to retain workers at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. In the event that we become committed to purchase supplies or to retain workers for prices in excess of the current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or workers at lower prices, and our gross margin could suffer. Our use of single source suppliers for certain components could exacerbate our supplier issues. We obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. In addition, new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. The performance of such single source suppliers may affect the quality, quantity and price of supplies to HP. Impairment of our investment portfolio could harm our net earnings. We have an investment portfolio that includes minority equity and debt investments. In most cases, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these investments and may incur losses related to the impairment of these investments and therefore charges to net earnings. Some of our investments are in public and privately held companies that are still in the start up or development stage, which have inherent risks because the technologies or products they have under development never may become successful. Furthermore, the values of our investments in publicly traded companies are subject to significant market price volatility. We often couple our investments in technology companies with a strategic commercial relationship. Our commercial agreements with these companies may not be sufficient to allow us to obtain and integrate such products and services into our offerings or otherwise benefit from the relationship, and third parties, including competitors, subsequently may acquire these companies. Economic weakness could impact our investment portfolio in the future. The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied. Our revenue and profit margins vary among our products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will be different in future periods than our current revenue and profit margins. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that periods net revenue. In particular, IPG and certain of its business units such as printer supplies contribute significantly to our profitability. Certain segments, and ESS in particular, have a higher fixed cost structure than others and may experience 73 significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly basis. In addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures. Market trends, competitive pressures, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. Unanticipated changes in HPs tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or in tax laws or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. Further, if we elect to repatriate cash held outside the United States pursuant to The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, our tax rate may increase even if by a lesser amount than without such legislation. Our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. Our quarterly sales have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of such quarters total sales occur toward the end of such quarter, and this trend has become more pronounced in recent periods. This uneven sales pattern makes prediction of revenue, earnings and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition, and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. If predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there will be excess inventory. Alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter. Other developments late in a quarter, such as a systems failure, component pricing movements or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. In addition, we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products. For example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the U.S. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal and calendar years are the same spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. European sales are often weaker during the summer months. Demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. Moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. Overall, our third fiscal quarter is typically our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter our strongest. Many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. 74 Any failure by us to execute planned cost reductions successfully could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected. Historically, we have undertaken restructuring plans to bring operational expenses to appropriate levels for each of our businesses, while simultaneously implementing extensive new company wide expense control programs. In connection with the Compaq acquisition and other cost alignment efforts, we announced workforce restructurings as well as reductions through our early retirement programs involving approximately 26,200 employees worldwide in fiscal 2003 and 2002. Hiring in key areas offset some of these workforce reductions. We expect additional workforce reductions in the first half of 2005, and we may have further workforce reductions in the future. Significant risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or that may otherwise harm our business include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia, redundancies among restructuring programs, decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, particularly sales employees. In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and IT support positions. In particular, hiring and retaining qualified engineers, skilled solutions providers in the IT support business and qualified sales representatives is critical to our future. Competition for experienced management and technical, sales, marketing and support personnel in the IT industry can be intense. The loss of key employees could have a significant impact on our operations and stock price. We also must continue to motivate employees and keep them focused on HPs strategies and goals. Decreased effectiveness of equity compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees, and proposed changes in accounting for equity compensation could adversely affect earnings. We have historically used stock options and other forms of equity related compensation as key components of our total rewards employee compensation program in order to align employees interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. In recent periods, many of HPs employee stock options have had exercise prices in excess of HPs stock price, which reduces their value to employees and could affect our ability to retain or attract present and prospective employees. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and other agencies have finalized changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles that will require HP and other companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. Moreover, applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant options to employees in the future. As a result, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. 75 HPs stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. HPs stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. Some of the factors that can affect our stock price are: the announcement of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin or earnings, and changes in the business, organizational structure, operations or prospects of HP or any of its business units; changes in quarterly revenue or earnings estimates by the investment community and variations between actual and anticipated financial results; and speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, financial reporting, results of operations, business acquisitions or significant transactions. General or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to HPs performance also may affect the price of HP common stock. For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, or results of operations or cash flows. In addition, following periods of volatility in a companys securities, securities class action litigation against a company is sometimes instituted. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. System security risks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers, which could harm our revenue, increase our expenses and harm our reputation and stock price. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. As a result, we could incur significant expenses in addressing problems created by security breaches of our network. Moreover, we could lose existing or potential customers for information technology outsourcing services or other information technology solutions, or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers system failures. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design and manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service that may impede sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. Portions of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with ongoing systems integration work. In particular, in connection with the Compaq integration, we are in the process of implementing new general ledger, order management and data warehouse systems to replace our current systems. As a part of this effort, we are rationalizing various legacy systems, upgrading existing software applications and implementing new data management applications to administer our business information. We may not be successful in implementing the new systems, and transitioning data and other aspects of the process could be expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. Any disruptions that may occur in the 76 implementation of the new systems or any future systems could adversely affect our ability to report in an accurate and timely manner the results of our consolidated operations, our business segment results, our financial position and cash flows. Disruptions to these systems also could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other operational processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. Any failure by us to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding, and enter into agreements relating to, possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and outsourcing transactions in order to further our business objectives, and in many cases, to manage our product and technology portfolios. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for these transactions, complete these transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. Integration and other risks of acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and outsourcing transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. However, if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and selling, general and administrative expenses. Integration issues are complex, time consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. The challenges involved in integration include: combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate IT infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, integrating employees into HP, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. 77 We evaluate and enter into significant transactions, including acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and outsourcing agreements, on an ongoing basis. We may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any transaction to the extent anticipated, and the timeframe for achieving benefits of a transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. In addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for significant transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate our costs accurately. Any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to achieve contractual obligations could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable. Managing acquisitions, outsourcing transactions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and divestitures requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. These transactions also have resulted and in the future may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, IPR&D charges, inventory adjustments, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. Moreover, HP has incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with a transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. In order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders, or borrow, affecting our financial condition and potentially our credit ratings. Any prior or future downgrades in our credit rating associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. In addition, HPs effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain and extraordinary transactions could impact our effective tax rate. As a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment communitys expectations in a given quarter. Unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state and international laws governing the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Many of our products are subject to various federal, state and international laws governing chemical substances in products, including those regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non compliant with environmental laws. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances that will apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive) and similar legislation currently proposed for China. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict, and liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. We also could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take back legislation. The European Union 78 has finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. This deadline to enact and implement the directive by individual European Union governments generally was August 13, 2004, although extensions were granted to some countries (such legislation, together with the directive, the "WEEE Legislation"), and producers are to financially responsible under the WEEE Legislation beginning in August 2005. HPs potential liability resulting from the WEEE Legislation may be substantial. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other geographies, including in the United States and Japan, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. It is our policy to apply strict standards for environmental protection to sites inside and outside the United States, even when we are not subject to local government regulations. We record a liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs when we consider the costs to be probable and the amount of the costs can be reasonably estimated. Some anti takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. We have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors. These include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, directors and officers; specifying that stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of HP stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors; requiring a two thirds stockholder vote to amend certain bylaws relating to stockholder meetings, the Board of Directors and indemnification; and controlling the procedures for conduct of Board and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of directors. These provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of HP. As a Delaware corporation, HP also is subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of HPs outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of HP common stock, and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for HP common stock. 79   ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and equity price risks that could impact our financial position results of operations. Our risk management strategy with respect to these three market risks includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We use derivatives only to manage existing underlying exposures of HP. Accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. Our risks, risk management strategy, and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair values for each of these exposures are outlined below. Foreign currency exchange rate risk During the preceding fiscal year, we were exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We transact business in approximately 40 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to our operations for the preceding fiscal year were the euro, the Japanese yen and the British pound. For most currencies we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currency. Even where HP is a net receiver, certain expense figures taken alone may be adversely affected by a weaker U.S. dollar. We use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, HP may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for U.S. dollar denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. HP also uses other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under SFAS No. 133, consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. HP recognizes the gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts in the same period as the remeasurement losses and gains of the related foreign currency denominated exposures. Alternatively, HP may choose not to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with its foreign currency exposures if such exposure acts as a natural foreign currency hedge for other offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency. We have performed a sensitivity analysis as of October 31, 2004 and 2003, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held constant. The analysis covers all of our foreign currency contracts offset by the underlying exposures. The foreign currency exchange rates used were based on market rates in effect at October 31, 2004 and 2003. The sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, net of exposures, of $71 million at October 31, 2004 and $96 million at October 31, 2003. Interest rate risk During the preceding fiscal year, we also were exposed to interest rate risk related to our debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. HP issues long term debt in either U.S. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. HP then typically uses interest rate swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve primarily U.S. dollar LIBOR based floating interest. The swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. However, HP may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if the fixed rate positions provide a more beneficial relationship between assets and liabilities. In order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed rate 80 investments, HP periodically may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. HP uses cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of LIBOR based interest income received on certain variable rate investments. HP also enters into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed rate interest returns. We have performed a sensitivity analysis as of October 31, 2004 and 2003, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. The analysis covers our debt, investment instruments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. The analysis uses actual maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps and approximate maturities for financing receivables. The discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at October 31, 2004 and 2003. The sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investment instruments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swap positions, of $2 million at October 31, 2004 and $7 million at October 31, 2003. Equity price risk During the preceding fiscal year, we also were exposed to equity price risk inherent in our portfolio of publicly traded equity securities, which had an estimated fair value of $70 million at October 31, 2004 and $97 million at October 31, 2003. We monitor our equity investments on a periodic basis. In the event that the carrying value of the equity investment exceeds its fair value, and the decline in value is determined to be other than temporary, the carrying value is reduced to its current fair value. Generally, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these equity securities. However, we may use derivative transactions to hedge certain positions from time to time. We do not purchase our equity securities with the intent to use them for trading or speculative purposes. A hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair values of our marketable equity securities of $21 million at October 31, 2004 and $29 million at October 31, 2003. The aggregate cost of privately held companies and other investments is $388 million at October 31, 2004 and $577 million at October 31, 2003. Actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price movements and our actual exposures and hedges. 81   
 
