ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. OVERVIEW We are a leading global technology company and generate net revenue and earn our profits from the sale of products, technologies, solutions and services to consumers, businesses and governments. Our portfolio is broad and includes personal computers, handheld computing devices, home and business imaging and printing devices, publishing systems, storage and servers, a wide array of information technology ("IT") services and software solutions. We have seven business segments: Enterprise Storage and Servers ("ESS"), HP Services ("HPS") Software, the Personal Systems Group ("PSG"), the Imaging and Printing Group ("IPG"), HP Financial Services ("HPFS"), and Corporate Investments. ESS, HPS and Software are structured beneath a broader Technology Solutions Group ("TSG"). While TSG is not an operating segment, we sometimes provide financial data aggregating the segments within TSG in order to provide a supplementary view of our business. Our product and geographic breadth requires us to focus on strategic imperatives within individual product categories and to manage across our portfolio in order to drive growth while optimizing cost structure. Our financial results also are impacted by our ability to predict and to respond to industry wide trends. For instance, a trend that is significant to our business and financial results is the shift toward standardized products, which presents revenue opportunities for certain of our businesses but presents an ongoing challenge to our margins. To help address the potential margin impact of standardization, we take ongoing actions related to both revenue generation and cost structure management. In the sales and marketing area, we have programs designed to improve the rates at which we sell higher margin configurations or options. We also continue to focus on managing procurement and labor expenses. Key to our overall efforts in delivering superior products while maintaining a world class cost structure is the increasingly global nature of technology expertise. This trend is allowing us to develop a global delivery structure to take advantage of regions where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs. As part of this effort, we continually evaluate our workforce and make adjustments we deem appropriate. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan recommended by our CEO and senior management. Under this restructuring plan, we expect to terminate approximately 15,300 employees through workforce restructurings or early retirement programs through the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Approximately 4,700 of these employees exited HP as of October 31, 2005. We expect approximately half of the cost savings from these actions to be reinvested in our businesses or used to offset market forces. When we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur incremental expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure, but we believe that the fundamental shift to global delivery is crucial to maintaining a long term competitive cost structure. For more information on our restructuring plan, see Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 33 In terms of how our execution has translated into financial performance, our key fiscal 2005 financial metrics were as follows: TSG HP Consolidated ESS HPS Software Total IPG PSG HPFS in millions, except per share amounts Net revenue $ 86,696 $ 16,701 $ 15,536 $ 1,077 $ 33,314 $ 25,155 $ 26,741 $ 2,102 Year over year net revenue % increase 8 % 11 % 12 % 15 % 12 % 4 % 9 % 11 % Earnings (loss) from operations $ 3,473 $ 810 $ 1,151 $ (59 ) $ 1,902 $ 3,413 $ 657 $ 213 Earnings (loss) from operations as a % of net revenue 4.0 % 4.9 % 7.4 % (5.5 )% 5.7 % 13.6 % 2.5 % 10.1 % Net earnings $ 2,398 Net earnings per share Basic $ 0.83 Diluted $ 0.82 Cash and cash equivalents for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2005 totaled $13.9 billion, an increase of $1.2 billion from the October 31, 2004 balance of $12.7 billion. The increase for fiscal 2005 was due primarily to net cash provided by operating activities and proceeds received from shares issued in connection with employee stock plans, partially reduced by the repayment of debt and repurchases of common stock. We intend the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to provide information that will assist in understanding our Consolidated Financial Statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. The discussion of results of operations at the consolidated level is followed by a more detailed discussion of results of operations by segment. For a further discussion of factors that could impact operating results, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES General The Consolidated Financial Statements of HP are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of HPs Board of Directors. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 34 An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, if different estimates reasonably could have been used, or if changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur could materially impact the financial statements. Management believes the following critical accounting policies reflect the significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition We enter into contracts to sell our products and services, and, while the majority of our sales agreements contain standard terms and conditions, there are agreements that contain multiple elements or non standard terms and conditions. As a result, significant contract interpretation is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in a multiple element arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and, if so, how the price should be allocated among the elements and when to recognize revenue for each element. We recognize revenue for delivered elements only when the fair values of undelivered elements are known, uncertainties regarding customer acceptance are resolved and there are no customer negotiated refund or return rights affecting the revenue recognized for delivered elements. Changes in the allocation of the sales price between elements might impact the timing of revenue recognition but would not change the total revenue recognized on the contract. We recognize revenue as work progresses on certain fixed price contracts, such as consulting arrangements. Using a proportional performance method, we estimate the total expected labor costs in order to determine the amount of revenue earned to date. We follow this basis because reasonably dependable estimates of the labor costs applicable to various stages of a contract can be made. Total contract profit is subject to revisions throughout the life of the contract. We record changes in revenue as a result of revisions to cost estimates to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. We record estimated reductions to revenue for customer and distributor programs and incentive offerings, including price protection, promotions, other volume based incentives and expected returns. Future market conditions and product transitions may require us to take actions to increase customer incentive offerings, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. Additionally, certain incentive programs require us to estimate, based on historical experience, the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Restructuring We have engaged, and may continue to engage, in restructuring actions, which require management to utilize significant estimates related to expenses for severance and other employee separation costs, realizable values of assets made redundant or obsolete, lease cancellation and other exit costs. If the actual amounts differ from our estimates, the amount of the restructuring charges could be materially impacted. For a full description of our restructuring actions, refer to our discussions of restructuring in the Results of Operations section and Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference. 35 Taxes on Earnings We calculate our current and deferred tax provisions based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual results reflected in our income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. We record adjustments based on filed returns when we have identified and finalized them, which is generally in the third quarter of the subsequent year for U.S. federal and state provisions. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. We record a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount that we are more likely than not to realize. We have considered future market growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, we would charge an adjustment to the deferred tax assets to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. Likewise, if we later determine that we are more likely than not to realize the net deferred tax assets, we would reverse the applicable portion of the previously provided valuation allowance. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in the tax jurisdictions in which the deferred tax assets are located. Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which we have not provided U.S. taxes because we plan to reinvest such earnings indefinitely outside the United States. We plan foreign earnings remittance amounts based on projected cash flow needs as well as the working capital and long term investment requirements of our foreign subsidiaries and our domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount we will distribute to the United States and provide the U.S. federal taxes due on these amounts. Further, as a result of certain employment actions and capital investments HP has undertaken, income from manufacturing activities in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates, and in some cases is wholly exempt from taxes, for fiscal years through 2018. Material changes in our estimates of cash, working capital and long term investment requirements in the various jurisdictions in which we do business could impact our effective tax rate. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and over sixty foreign countries, and we are subject to routine corporate income tax audits in many of these jurisdictions. We believe that our tax return positions are fully supported, but tax authorities are likely to challenge certain positions, which may not be fully sustained. However, our income tax expense includes amounts intended to satisfy income tax assessments that result from these challenges. Determining the income tax expense for these potential assessments and recording the related assets and liabilities requires significant management judgments and estimates. We evaluate our income tax contingencies in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies." We believe that our reserve for income tax liabilities, including related interest, is adequate in relation to the potential for additional tax assessments. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. Our reserve for income tax liabilities is attributable primarily to uncertainties concerning the tax treatment of our international operations, including the allocation of income among different jurisdictions, and related interest. We review our reserves quarterly, and we may adjust such reserves because of proposed assessments by tax authorities, changes in facts and circumstances, issuance of new regulations or new case law, previously unavailable information obtained during the course of an examination, negotiations between tax authorities of 36 different countries concerning our transfer prices, execution of Advanced Pricing Agreements, resolution with respect to individual audit issues, the resolution of entire audits, or the expiration of statutes of limitations. Material adjustments are most likely to occur in the fiscal years in which major ongoing audits, such as IRS audits, are closed. In addition, our tax contingency reserve includes certain amounts for potential tax assessments for pre acquisition tax years of acquired companies which, if released, will impact the carrying value of goodwill attributable to the acquired company. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts using a combination of factors to ensure that we have not overstated our trade and financing receivables balances due to uncollectibility. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for all customers based on a variety of factors, including the length of time receivables are past due, trends in overall weighted average risk rating of the total portfolio, macroeconomic conditions, significant one time events, historical experience and the use of third party credit risk models that generate quantitative measures of default probabilities based on market factors, and the financial condition of customers. Also, we record specific provisions for individual accounts when we become aware of a customers inability to meet its financial obligations to us, such as in the case of bankruptcy filings or deterioration in the customers operating results or financial position. If circumstances related to customers change, we would further adjust our estimates of the recoverability of receivables either upward or downward. The annual provision for doubtful accounts is approximately 0.1% of net revenue over the last three fiscal years. Using our third party credit risk model at October 31, 2005, a 50 basis point deterioration in either the weighted average default probabilities of our significant customers or in the overall mix of our portfolio would have resulted in an approximately $23 million increase to our trade allowance at the end of fiscal year 2005. Inventory We state our inventory at the lower of cost or market. We make adjustments to reduce the cost of inventory to its net realizable value, if required, at the product group level for estimated excess, obsolescence or impaired balances. Factors influencing these adjustments include changes in demand, rapid technological changes, product life cycle and development plans, component cost trends, product pricing, physical deterioration and quality issues. Revisions to these adjustments would be required if these factors differ from our estimates. Valuation of Goodwill and Indefinite Lived Purchased Intangible Assets We review goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." The provisions of SFAS No. 142 require that we perform a two step impairment test on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. Our reporting units are consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. We determine the fair value of our reporting units based on a weighting of income and market approaches. Under the income approach, we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. Under the market approach, we estimate the fair value based on market multiples of revenue or earnings for comparable companies. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets 37 assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then we record an impairment loss equal to the difference. SFAS No. 142 also requires that the fair value of the purchased intangible assets with indefinite lives be estimated and compared to the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of these intangible assets using an income approach. We recognize an impairment loss when the estimated fair value of the intangible asset is less than the carrying value. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit or an indefinite lived purchased intangible asset is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk adjusted discount rates, assumed royalty rates, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of our reporting units. Our annual goodwill impairment analysis, which we performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of fair value over carrying value for each of HPs reporting units as of August 1, 2005, the annual testing date, ranged from approximately $600 million to approximately $37.1 billion. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations on the goodwill impairment test, we applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit. This hypothetical 10% decrease would result in excess fair value over carrying value ranging from approximately $400 million to approximately $32.8 billion for each of HPs reporting units. Warranty Provision We provide for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time we recognize revenue. We evaluate our warranty obligations on a product group basis. Our standard product warranty terms generally include post sales support and repairs or replacement of a product at no additional charge for a specified period of time. While we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers, we base our estimated warranty obligation upon warranty terms, ongoing product failure rates, repair costs, product call rates, average cost per call, and current period product shipments. If actual product failure rates, repair rates, service delivery costs or post sales support costs differ from our estimates, we would be required to make revisions to the estimated warranty liability. Warranty terms generally range from 90 days parts only to three years parts and labor, depending upon the product. Over the last three fiscal years, the annual warranty provision has averaged approximately 4% of annual net product revenue, while actual annual warranty costs also have averaged approximately 4% of annual net product revenue. Retirement Benefits Our pension and other post retirement benefit costs and obligations are dependent on various assumptions. Our major assumptions primarily relate to discount rates, salary growth, long term return on plan assets and medical cost trend rates. We base the discount rate assumption on current investment yields of high quality fixed income investments during the retirement benefits maturity 38 period. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience and future and near term outlook. Long term return on plan assets is determined based on historical portfolio results and managements expectation of the future economic environment, as well as target asset allocations. Our medical cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook and an assessment of likely long term trends. Actual results that differ from our assumptions are accumulated and are generally amortized over the estimated future working life of the plan participants. Our major assumptions vary by plan and the weighted average rates used are set forth in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Each assumption has different sensitivity characteristics, and, in general, changes, if any, have moved in the same direction over the last several years. For fiscal 2005, a change in the weighted average rates would have had the following impact on our net periodic benefit cost: a decrease of 25 basis points in the long term rate of return would have increased our net benefit cost by approximately $24 million; a decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate would have increased our net benefit cost by approximately $50 million; and an increase of 25 basis points in the future compensation rate would have increased our net benefit cost by approximately $38 million. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. 39  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of net revenue were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31,: 2005 2004(2) 2003(2) In millions Net revenue $ 86,696 100.0 % $ 79,905 100.0 % $ 73,061 100.0 % Cost of sales(1) 66,440 76.6 % 60,811 76.1 % 54,393 74.4 % Gross profit 20,256 23.4 % 19,094 23.9 % 18,668 25.6 % Research and development 3,490 4.0 % 3,563 4.5 % 3,686 5.0 % Selling, general and administrative 11,184 13.0 % 10,496 13.1 % 10,442 14.3 % Pension curtailment (199 ) (0.2 )% Restructuring charges 1,684 1.9 % 114 0.1 % 800 1.1 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets 622 0.7 % 603 0.8 % 563 0.8 % In process research and development charges 2 37 1 Acquisition related charges 54 0.1 % 280 0.4 % Earnings from operations 3,473 4.0 % 4,227 5.3 % 2,896 4.0 % Interest and other, net 189 0.2 % 35 21 (Losses) gains on investments (13 ) 4 (29 ) Dispute settlement (106 ) (0.1 )% (70 ) (0.1 )% Earnings before taxes 3,543 4.1 % 4,196 5.2 % 2,888 4.0 % Provision for taxes 1,145 1.3 % 699 0.8 % 349 0.5 % Net earnings $ 2,398 2.8 % $ 3,497 4.4 % $ 2,539 3.5 % (1)Cost of products, cost of services and financing interest. (2)Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts in order to conform to the current year presentation. Net Revenue The components of weighted average net revenue growth were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2005 2004 Percentage points Personal Systems Group 2.7 4.7 HP Services 2.1 1.9 Enterprise Storage and Servers 2.0 0.8 Imaging and Printing Group 1.2 2.2 HP Financial Services 0.3 Software 0.2 0.2 Corporate Investments & Other (0.4 ) Total HP 8.5 9.4 40 In fiscal 2005, HP net revenue increased approximately 8% from the prior year period (6% on a constant currency basis). The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro and the yen for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 and to a lesser extent in the fourth fiscal quarter as the dollar strengthened against the euro and the yen during that period. U.S. net revenue was $30.5 billion for fiscal 2005, an increase of 4% from the prior year, while international net revenue increased 11% to $56.2 billion. In PSG, net revenue increased across all regions as a result of a 13% volume increase in consumer and commercial clients. The volume increase was partially offset by a decline of 4% in average selling prices ("ASPs"). Notebook PC sales were the leading contributor to net revenue growth in PSG. HPS achieved net revenue growth across all businesses in fiscal 2005 due in large part to the impact of acquisitions (primarily benefiting technology services) and favorable currency impacts. Additionally, managed services net revenue increased due to both new contract signings and additional contract revenue from the installed base. In fiscal 2005, ESS net revenue growth was the result primarily of continued strong sales of industry standard servers, particularly our ProLiant server line, due to volume increases and higher ASPs resulting from improved option attach rates. IPG net revenue growth in fiscal 2005 was the result of increased unit growth of printer supplies, particularly LaserJet toner, as a result of the increasing demand for color related products. The demand for color related products also added to the revenue growth in commercial hardware. Both Software and HPFS contributed to HP net revenue growth for fiscal 2005 as growing acceptance of our OpenView product offerings contributed to Software revenue growth while higher used equipment sales and a higher mix of operating leases benefited HPFS. In fiscal 2004, HP net revenue increased 9% from the prior year period (3% on a constant currency basis). The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro. U.S. net revenue remained flat at $29.4 billion, while international net revenue increased 15% to $50.5 billion compared to fiscal 2003. PSG experienced net revenue growth across all businesses, with customer demand resulting in significant volume increases in desktop and notebook PCs. The overall volume increase was offset by a slight decline in the overall ASPs due to a mix shift to lower end products as well as component cost declines. IPG net revenue growth in fiscal 2004 was driven by the continued volume growth of printer supplies. Toner supplies and color laser printers experienced strong volume growth due to the growing demand for color related products and digital photography. HPS achieved net revenue growth across all businesses in fiscal 2004. The impact of major outsourcing deals and, to a lesser extent, the acquisition of Triaton GmbH, Triaton France SAS and Triaton N.A., Inc. (USA) (collectively "Triaton") in the second half of the year, contributed to the growth in managed services and technology services. In fiscal 2004, ESS net revenue growth was generated by sales of industry standard servers, primarily our ProLiant server line. Revenue declines from competitive pressures in storage and business critical servers moderated the overall ESS segment net revenue growth. The slight decrease in HPFS net revenue for fiscal 2004 was due primarily to lower levels of revenue generating assets. 41 Gross Margin The weighted average components of the change in gross margin as a percentage of net revenue were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2005 2004 Percentage points Imaging and Printing Group (0.8 ) HP Services (0.5 ) (0.6 ) Corporate Investments & Other Enterprise Storage and Servers 0.1 (0.8 ) HP Financial Services 0.1 0.1 Software 0.1 Personal Systems Group 0.5 (0.4 ) Total HP (0.5 ) (1.7 ) Total company gross margin decreased for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004. For IPG, the gross margin decline for fiscal 2005 was attributable primarily to a mix shift within supplies from inkjet cartridges to LaserJet toner and continuing decreases in ASPs within hardware due to strategic pricing actions. The gross margin decline in HPS for fiscal 2005 reflects primarily competitive pricing pressures and portfolio mix shifts within technology services along with higher employee bonus costs in the second half of the fiscal year. For fiscal 2005, ESS gross margin increased slightly as the benefits of improved option attach rates in industry standard servers and improved performance in storage helped to offset the unfavorable impact from the continued mix shift towards industry standard servers within the segment and the mix shift to lower margin products within business critical systems. The gross margin contribution for HPFS and Software increased slightly for fiscal 2005 as lower bad debt expense increased gross margin in HPFS, while an increase in both OpenView and OpenCall gross margins benefited the Software business. The gross margin improvement in PSG for fiscal 2005 resulted from component cost declines, product mix shift towards higher margin notebook PCs and reduced warranty costs. Competitive pricing pressures contributed significantly to the gross margin decline in ESS, HPS and PSG for fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003. In ESS the competitive environment contributed to the gross margin decline in the standards based server group along with the storage group. In addition to competitive pricing pressures, the gross margin decline in HPS reflected mix shifts to lower margin contracts for technology services and large outsourcing contracts for managed services, which typically have lower margins in the early stages of their life cycles. Competitive pricing pressures, particularly in Europe, contributed to the gross margin decline in PSG. IPG gross margin remained flat for fiscal 2004, with a favorable impact from cost reductions and increased shipments in supplies being offset by a mix shift to lower margin products. HPFS gross margin increased for fiscal 2004 due to higher portfolio profitability primarily from end of lease transactions, which generally have a higher gross margin. In fiscal 2004, gross margin also was favorably impacted by the currency effects on net revenue resulting primarily from the weakening of the dollar against the euro. 42 Operating Expenses Research and Development For fiscal 2005, total research and development expense as a percentage of net revenue declined from the same period in the prior year due primarily to savings resulting from workforce reductions and tight expense controls. These savings were partially offset by increased costs for the company bonus and costs associated with the workforce rebalancing actions taken in the first half of the fiscal year. As a percentage of net revenue, each of our segments experienced a decrease in research and development expense for the current year as we work to focus our investments and manage realignment, while also continuing to drive new technologies and business opportunities. Such decreases resulted in part from cost control measures, including the benefit from workforce reduction actions in ESS, the consolidation and realignment of certain IPG research and development infrastructure and lower program spending. For fiscal 2004, total research and development spending decreased as a percentage of net revenue in each of our major segments. The decrease was a result of our focus on investing in categories of the business that yield stronger long term returns in the marketplace and on curtailing spending in the more mature categories of our business, particularly within ESS. In addition, during fiscal 2004 we continued to realize synergies from the Compaq acquisition, and we shifted our business towards more standards based products, leveraging research and development from our technology partners. These decreases as a percentage of net revenue were moderated by increased research and development spending in IPG related to strategic initiatives and unfavorable currency impacts resulting primarily from the weakening of the dollar against the euro. IPGs increase in research and development spending was due primarily to our investment in inkjet technology. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense decreased slightly as a percentage of net revenue during fiscal 2005, as net revenue growth was higher than the growth of SG&A due in part to tight company wide expense controls. On an absolute basis, SG&A spending increased 6.6% for the current fiscal year due primarily to higher employee bonuses earned in the second half of fiscal 2005 and unfavorable currency impacts. The decline in SG&A expense as a percentage of net revenue in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 was due primarily to the increase in net revenue outpacing expense growth. This was in part a result of effective expense controls and workforce reduction measures. Unfavorable currency impacts moderated the decline due to the weakening of the dollar against the euro. Pension Curtailment In conjunction with managements plan to restructure certain of its operations, as discussed in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, HP modified its U.S. retirement programs to more closely align to industry practice. Effective January 1, 2006, HP will cease pension accruals and eliminate eligibility for the subsidized retiree medical program for current employees who do not meet defined criteria based on age and years of service. As a result, we recognized a curtailment gain of $199 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 stemming from the elimination of future benefit accruals for the affected employee group. For more information on our plan design changes, see Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. 43 Restructuring Charges In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan recommended by our chief executive officer and senior management that is designed to simplify our structure, reduce costs and place greater focus on our customers. Under the plan, we have terminated or expect to terminate approximately 15,300 employees through the first quarter of fiscal 2007. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005, we recorded a pre tax restructuring charge of $1.57 billion, and we expect to record an additional charge of $30 million in connection with this plan. Approximately 4,700 employees have left HP as of October 31, 2005 in connection with this restructuring plan including 3,200 U.S. employees who elected to take early retirement. We estimate that our fourth quarter restructuring actions and changes we made to our U.S. retirement programs will result in gross savings between $900 million and $1.0 billion in fiscal 2006, and we estimate annual gross savings of approximately $2.0 billion beginning in fiscal 2007. We expect approximately half of the cost savings to be used to offset market forces or to be reinvested in the business to strengthen our competitiveness. We anticipate the remainder to flow through to operating profit. In the third quarter of fiscal 2005, our management approved a restructuring plan and recorded a charge of $109 million related to severance and related costs associated with the termination of approximately 1,450 employees, all of whom left HP as of October 31, 2005. Of the initial restructuring amount, we have paid $87 million as of October 31, 2005, and we expect the remainder to be paid by the end of fiscal 2006. Restructuring costs in fiscal 2004 mainly reflect certain charges relating to the fiscal 2003 restructuring plan described below, which did not meet recognition requirements during fiscal 2003, as well as changes in the original estimates for the fiscal 2003 plan and a fiscal 2002 restructuring plan. During fiscal 2003, our management approved and implemented plans to restructure certain of its operations. We entered into these plans with the intent of better managing our cost structure and aligning certain of our operations with then current business conditions. In connection with these plans, we recorded a restructuring charge of $752 million. Restructuring liabilities of $1.2 billion at October 31, 2005 are composed primarily of the remaining cash payments to be made for severance relating to the fiscal 2005 restructuring plan and certain non U.S. severance benefits and contract termination costs, including canceled facility leases, for the other restructuring plans. We expect to make a majority of the severance payments during fiscal 2006 and to settle the non severance obligations by the end of fiscal 2010. For more information on our restructuring charges, see Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. 44 The following table summarizes the major restructuring activities in aggregate and during each of fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003. For the fiscal years ended October 31 Aggregate Total 2005 2004 2003 In millions, except employee data Restructuring headcount reductions: 2005 plans estimate 16,750 16,750 2005 plans exits (6,150 ) (6,150 ) Remaining to exit 10,600 10,600 2003 plans estimate and estimate revisions 8,400 (200 ) (400 ) 9,000 2003 plans exits (8,400 ) (100 ) (1,300 ) (7,000 ) Remaining to exit Restructuring program charges: 2005 restructuring charges: Severance and other benefits $ 1,674 $ 1,674 Asset impairments Other infrastructure costs Sub total 1,674 1,674 2003 cost structure realignment charges: Severance and other benefits $ 636 $ (9 ) $ 6 $ 639 Asset impairments 74 (3 ) 6 71 Other infrastructure costs 69 2 25 42 Sub total 779 (10 ) 37 752 2002 and 2001 restructuring charges $ 145 $ 20 $ 77 $ 48 Total restructuring charges $ 2,598 $ 1,684 $ 114 $ 800 Goodwill adjustments relating to restructuring plans $ (237 ) $ (44 ) $ (73 ) $ (120 ) Fiscal 2005 Workforce Rebalancing In addition to the restructuring activities described above, in fiscal 2005 we incurred approximately $236 million in workforce rebalancing charges resulting from actions taken by certain business segments for severance and related costs. Workforce rebalancing costs are included in the segment results. We recorded these costs during the six months ended April 30, 2005. As a result of these workforce rebalancing actions, approximately 3,000 employees left HP as of October 31, 2005. Of the workforce rebalancing charges, we had paid $209 million as of October 31, 2005, and we expect to pay the remainder by the end of fiscal 2006. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The increase in amortization expense for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 was due primarily to the amortization of intangible assets related to the acquisitions of Triaton in April 2004, Synstar PLC ("Synstar") in October 2004 and SAC, LLC ("Snapfish") in April 2005, as well as accelerated amortization related to the early termination of certain acquired customer contracts. The increase in amortization expense in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 was due primarily to the amortization of intangible assets related to the acquisition of Triaton in April 2004. 45  In Process Research and Development Charges We record in process research & development ("IPR&D") charges in connection with acquisitions accounted for as business combinations, as more fully described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. In fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 we recorded IPR&D charges of $2 million, $37 million and $1 million, respectively, related to acquisitions during those years. Interest and Other, Net Interest and other, net increased $154 million in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. The increase in fiscal 2005 was the result primarily of higher short term U.S. interest rates, which increased the interest income from our cash balances and reduced the cost associated with foreign exchange hedges. Increased interest expense and a charge related to a sales and use tax audit of Compaq prior to its acquisition by HP for the years 1998 2002 partially offset the increase in interest and other, net for fiscal 2005. Interest and other, net increased $14 million in fiscal 2004 from fiscal 2003. The increase in fiscal 2004 was the result of lower interest expense, which was offset partially by higher currency losses from balance sheet remeasurement and related hedging strategies. (Losses) Gains on Investments The net loss for fiscal 2005 resulted primarily from impairment charges on equity investments in our publicly traded and privately held investment portfolios. Partially offsetting these losses were gains attributable to the sale of investments. The net gain for fiscal 2004 was attributable mainly to the realization of a contingent gain associated with a prior period divestiture and realized gains from the sale of investments in excess of impairment charges. Net losses in fiscal 2003 resulted mainly from impairment charges in excess of gains realized on our investment portfolio. Dispute Settlement For fiscal 2005, we recorded a net total of $106 million in dispute settlement charges. We reached a legal settlement of $141 million in our patent infringement case with Intergraph Hardware Technologies Company ("Intergraph") and recorded a charge of $116 million related to a cross license agreement with Intergraph for products shipped in prior years. Partially offsetting this amount was a $10 million recovery from an individual related to a prior period settlement with the Government of Canada for cost audits of certain contracts. During fiscal 2004, we recorded $70 million in settlement costs from a dispute with the Government of Canada. See Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a full description of these matters, which is incorporated herein by reference. Provision for Taxes Our effective tax rate was 32.3%, 16.7% and 12.1% in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The increase in the overall tax rate in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004 is related primarily to tax expense associated with the repatriation of $14.5 billion under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Jobs Act"), which was partially offset by the increase in the tax benefit derived from lower rates in other jurisdictions. The increase in the overall tax rate in fiscal 2004 from fiscal 2003 was the result primarily of a decline in the tax benefit from lower rates in other jurisdictions in fiscal 2004. 46 The Jobs Act, enacted on October 22, 2004, provides for a temporary 85% dividends received deduction on certain foreign earnings repatriated during a one year period. The deduction results in an approximate 5.25% federal tax rate on the repatriated earnings. In fiscal 2005, we recorded $697 million of income tax expense related to items unique to the year. The tax expense was the result primarily of $792 million associated with the repatriation of $14.5 billion under the Jobs Act and $76 million related to additional distributions received from foreign subsidiaries. These tax expenses were offset in part by tax benefits of $177 million resulting from agreements with the Internal Revenue Service and other governmental authorities. In fiscal 2004, our tax rate benefited from net favorable adjustments to previously estimated tax liabilities of $207 million, which decreased the provision for taxes by approximately $0.07 per share. The most significant favorable adjustments related to the resolution of a California state income tax audit, a net favorable revision to estimated tax accruals upon filing the 2003 U.S. income tax return and a reduction in taxes on foreign earnings due to a change in regulatory policy. These favorable adjustments were offset in part by the net effect of smaller adjustments to income tax liabilities in various jurisdictions. In fiscal 2003, the tax rate benefited primarily from lower tax rates in non U.S. jurisdictions. For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% and further explanation of our provision for taxes, see Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Segment Information A description of the products and services, as well as financial data, for each segment can be found in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. We have restated segment financial data for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2004 and 2003 to reflect changes in HPs organizational structure that occurred at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2005. We describe these changes more fully in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. We have presented the business segments in this Form 10 K based on our management organizational structure as of October 31, 2005 and the distinct nature of various businesses. Future changes to this organizational structure may result in changes to the reportable segments disclosed. The discussions below include the results of each of our segments. Technology Solutions Group ESS, HPS and Software are structured beneath a broader Technology Solutions Group ("TSG"). We described the results of the business segments of TSG in more detail below. Enterprise Storage and Servers For the fiscal years ended October 31 2005 2004 2003 In millions Net revenue $ 16,701 $ 15,074 $ 14,540 Earnings from operations $ 810 $ 161 $ 146 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 4.9 % 1.1 % 1.0 % 47 The components of weighted average net revenue growth, by business unit were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2005 2004 Percentage points Industry standard servers 9.3 5.9 Storage 1.2 (1.7 ) Business critical systems 0.3 (0.5 ) Total ESS 10.8 3.7 ESS net revenue increased 11% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. On a constant currency basis, ESS net revenue increased 9% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro and the yen for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 and to a lesser extent in the fourth fiscal quarter as the dollar strengthened against the euro and the yen during that period. For fiscal 2005, ESS net revenue growth was due primarily to volume increases and improved average selling prices ("ASPs") in industry standard servers, as a result of both unit growth and increased option attach rates in the ProLiant server line. The fiscal 2005 net revenue growth rate in industry standard servers benefited from the internal execution problems described below that unfavorably impacted the business in the second half of the prior year. Storage net revenue increased 5% in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 due to new product introductions that contributed to the strong performance of mid range EVA products and improved storage sales specialist coverage. For fiscal 2005, storage area networks ("SANs") net revenue improved while revenue growth in the tape and supplies businesses remained flat. Fiscal 2005 storage net revenue growth rates, in comparison with growth rates in the prior year, benefited from the business challenges that unfavorably impacted the storage business in the second half of the prior year. Business critical systems net revenue increased 1% for fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. Integrity server net revenue growth for the period was offset partially by revenue decline in the RISC product line and the planned revenue decline in the Alpha Server product line. The Integrity server product line posted net revenue growth for the year, representing 20% of the total business critical systems revenue mix, up from 11% in the prior year. For fiscal 2005, HP UX server net revenue increased 5% from the prior year, and NonStop server net revenue declined due to a mature installed base. For fiscal 2005, ESS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 3.8 percentage points compared to fiscal 2004, due primarily to a 3.5 percentage point decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue, combined with a 0.3 percentage point increase in gross margin. We recorded $57 million of workforce reduction costs in the first two quarters of fiscal 2005. Our reduced operating expenses reflect the benefits of these measures as well as management controls on expense spending, which offset the impact of the higher employee bonus accruals recorded in the second half of the year. The improvement in margin was due primarily to higher option attach rates and improved discount management, which were offset partially by the continued mix shift towards industry standard servers within the segment as well as the ongoing mix shift to lower margin products within the business critical systems business as Integrity products assumed a greater percentage of business critical systems net revenue. In addition, the year over year industry standard 48 servers and storage gross margins comparisons were favorably impacted by execution issues and business challenges that unfavorably impacted the performance of industry standard servers and storage in the second half of fiscal 2004. ESS net revenue increased 4% in fiscal 2004 from fiscal 2003. Revenue on a constant currency basis decreased 2%. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro. In fiscal 2004, ESS performance was hurt in the third fiscal quarter by execution issues, namely a systems migration in the U.S., channel management issues in EMEA and weakness in storage. However, ESS net revenue growth was helped by industry standard servers unit growth of 22%, which translated to a 12% net revenue increase from fiscal 2003 in that category. Net revenue in business critical systems declined by 2% in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003, reflecting the ongoing decline of the AlphaServer product line. RISC and Integrity servers experienced revenue growth. We introduced mid range and high end Itanium&reg; based products widely in fiscal 2004, and sales continued to increase during the year, with Integrity servers representing 13% of business critical systems (including NonStop servers) in the fourth fiscal quarter. HP UX server revenue increased 2% from fiscal 2003, offset by declines in Alpha as we transitioned customers to non Alpha products. NonStop server net revenue declined 1% from the prior year, reflecting a maturing installed base. Storage net revenue declined 7% in fiscal 2004, with declines in both the overall array and tape businesses. Net revenue declines from fiscal 2003 were due primarily to our exposure to the declining tape market, aggressive pricing, inadequate storage sales specialist coverage and some product updates that occurred late in fiscal 2004. Growth in storage software and network attached storage offset partially the revenue decline in the primary product groups. ESS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue in fiscal 2004 improved by 0.1 percentage points, reflecting a 3.6 percentage point decrease in operating expenses in relation to revenue resulting from effective cost management and increased volume in the industry standard server business. A decline in gross margin of 3.5 percentage points offset the decline in operating expenses and volume growth. The gross margin decline was the result of competitive pressures impacting both the industry standard servers group and the storage business, along with a mix shift to lower margin products within the business critical servers group and more generally, the continued mix shift towards industry standard servers within the segment. In fiscal 2004, the business continued to focus on increasing direct sales, improving option attach rates and reducing warranty costs in order to optimize gross margins. Additionally, the execution issues of the third quarter that led to an operating loss in the quarter negatively impacted full year performance. HP Services For the fiscal years ended October 31 2005 2004 2003 In millions Net revenue $ 15,536 $ 13,848 $ 12,402 Earnings from operations $ 1,151 $ 1,282 $ 1,369 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 7.4 % 9.3 % 11.0 % 49  The components of weighted average net revenue growth, by business unit, were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2005 2004 Percentage points Technology services 5.6 5.9 Managed services 4.2 5.4 Consulting and integration 2.3 0.4 Other 0.1 Total HPS 12.2 11.7 HPS net revenue increased 12% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. On a constant currency basis, HPS net revenue increased 9% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro and the yen for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 and to a lesser extent in the fourth fiscal quarter as the dollar strengthened against the euro and the yen during that period. Excluding acquisitions made since the first quarter of fiscal 2004, HPS net revenue growth for fiscal 2005 was 8%. Net revenue in technology services increased 9% for fiscal 2005. Excluding acquisitions made since the first quarter of fiscal 2004, technology services net revenue growth for fiscal 2005 was 4%. For fiscal 2005, managed services net revenue increased 24% from the prior year as a result of an increase in new contracts, as well as additional revenue from our installed base of large customer contracts, the full year contribution of the Triaton acquisition (which we completed in April 2004) and favorable currency impacts. Excluding Triaton, managed services net revenue growth was 22% for fiscal 2005 compared to the prior fiscal year. Net revenue in consulting and integration increased 13% for fiscal 2005 from the prior year due to strong order growth in EMEA and Asia Pacific, as well as the favorable impact of currency. Additionally, the Triaton acquisition added to the revenue growth. HPS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue for fiscal 2005 declined 1.9 percentage points. The operating margin decline was the result of the combination of a decline in gross margin offset partially by a decrease in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue. The gross margin decline in HPS reflected primarily competitive pricing pressures and portfolio mix shifts within technology services, as well as the cost of higher employee bonus costs recorded in the second half of the fiscal year, and the absorption of workforce reduction costs in the first half of the year that amounted to $89 million. The technology services portfolio continues to evolve from higher margin proprietary support to lower margin areas such as multi vendor integrated support and network environmental services. Managed services gross margin increased due to improvements in delivery cost management across the installed base. Consulting and integration gross margin improved due to higher revenues and continued operational improvement in presales and delivery cost management. For fiscal 2005, reductions and efficiencies in our operating expense structure contributed to the decline in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue, despite $11 million in workforce reduction costs in the first half of the fiscal year and the impact of the employee bonuses granted in the second half of the fiscal year. 50 HPS net revenue increased 12% in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003. On a constant currency basis, net revenue increased 5% in fiscal 2004. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro and the yen. The growth in technology services net revenue was driven primarily by favorable currency impacts and the Triaton acquisition, as well as strength in integrated support, desktop lifecycle and mission critical support solutions. In fiscal 2004, the growth in managed services was due to increased net revenue from new large outsourcing deals and the expansion of services to existing customers, as well as the Triaton acquisition. An increase in core consulting and integration services contributed to a slight growth in the consulting and integration business in fiscal 2004, while a decrease in sales of complementary third party products negatively impacted net revenue. HPS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue declined 1.7 percentage points in fiscal 2004, due in part to the continued growth in managed services, a lower margin business, becoming an increasingly larger part of HPS. Operating profit ratio declines in the managed services and technology services business contributed to the overall segment operating profit ratio decline in fiscal 2004. Large outsourcing contracts at the early stages of their life cycle had lower margins in fiscal 2004, causing the decline in the managed services operating profit ratio. In the technology services business, competitive pricing pressures in both renewals and new contracts and a mix shift from higher margin support agreements (e.g., Unix&reg;) to lower margin contracts (e.g., networking installations and integrated multi vendor support offerings) affected the technology services operating profit ratio, and to a lesser degree, costs related to the integration of recent acquisitions also negatively affected technology services operating profit ratio. The overall operating profit ratio decline was moderated somewhat by an operating profit ratio improvement in the consulting and integration business as a result of a sales force focus on HPs Adaptive Enterprise offerings, customer relationship management and continued process improvements. Software For the fiscal years ended October 31 2005 2004 2003 In millions Net revenue $ 1,077 $ 933 $ 781 Loss from operations $ (59 ) $ (156 ) $ (206 ) Loss from operations as a % of net revenue (5.5 )% (16.7 )% (26.4 )% In fiscal 2005, Software net revenue increased 15% (12% without acquisitions) from fiscal 2004 and 13% on a constant currency basis. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro and the yen for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 and to a lesser extent in the fourth fiscal quarter as the dollar strengthened against the euro and the yen during that period. OpenView, our management solutions software product line, represented 12 percentage points of net revenue growth on a weighted average basis for fiscal 2005. OpenCall, our telecommunications solutions product line, represented 3 percentage points of growth on a weighted average net revenue basis for fiscal 2005. OpenView net revenue growth was the result of increases in larger contracts and license fees and, to a lesser extent, acquisitions. OpenCall net revenue growth was the result of an increase in licenses. 51 The operating margin improvement of 11.2 percentage points for fiscal 2005, as compared to fiscal 2004, was the result primarily of an increase in gross margin and a decrease in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue. The gross margin improvement was due to higher margin rates in our core businesses and a favorable product mix due to more OpenView license revenue. The decrease in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue was due to slower growth in operating expense attributable to cost management efforts, related principally to decreased research and development costs and slower growth in marketing costs as a percentage of revenue, despite the employee bonus recorded during the second half of fiscal 2005 and acquisition integration costs. In fiscal 2004, Software net revenue increased 19% (16% without acquisitions) and 13% on a constant currency basis from fiscal 2003. The majority of the currency impact resulted from the weakening of the dollar against the euro. Of the overall 19% net revenue increase, OpenView represented 13 percentage points of growth (10% without acquisitions) on a weighted average net revenue basis, while OpenCall contributed the remaining 6 percentage points of the net revenue increase. OpenView net revenue growth was the result of market share gains in a growing market along with the impact of acquisitions. The growth in OpenCall was due to increased spending in the telecommunications industry, associated with the adoption of the next generation of network infrastructure. The operating margin improvement of 9.7 percentage points in fiscal 2004 from fiscal 2003 was the result primarily of a decrease of operating expense as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in operating expense was attributable to effective cost management as operating expenses, particularly marketing and research and development costs, grew more slowly than net revenue despite the unfavorable impact of currency and increased acquisition related costs. There was some gross margin decline, resulting from an increasingly competitive pricing environment. Personal Systems Group For the fiscal years ended October 31 2005 2004 2003 In millions Net revenue $ 26,741 $ 24,622 $ 21,210 Earnings from operations $ 657 $ 205 $ 18 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 2.5 % 0.8 % 0.1 % The components of weighted average net revenue growth, by business unit, were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2005 2004 Percentage points Notebook PCs 5.4 7.1 Desktop PCs 1.2 7.7 Workstations 1.1 0.4 Handhelds (0.2 ) 0.7 Other 1.1 0.2 Total PSG 8.6 16.1 52 PSG net revenue increased 9% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. On a constant currency basis, PSGs net revenue increased 7% in fiscal 2005. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro and the yen for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 and to a lesser extent in the fourth fiscal quarter as the dollar strengthened against the euro and the yen during that period. For fiscal 2005, net revenue increased across all regions as a result of a 13% volume increase, particularly in consumer and commercial clients. Double digit unit growth in Asia Pacific and EMEA drove the revenue increase. For fiscal 2005, net revenue increases in notebook and desktop PCs were 16% and 2%, respectively, while consumer clients and commercial clients increased 10% and 7%, respectively, from the prior year. The revenue increases in consumer and commercial clients were offset partially by a decline in handhelds revenue. The performance of digital entertainment products, such as the Apple iPod from HP, added to the growth in net revenue for the fiscal year. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we discontinued reselling the Apple iPod, which will have an impact on revenue growth rates of digital entertainment products in future periods. The PSG volume increase was moderated by a decline of 4% in ASPs, with consumer clients and commercial clients declining 8% and 5%, respectively, for fiscal 2005. The declines in notebook and desktop ASPs were offset slightly by the digital entertainment mix and an increase in handheld and workstation ASPs. The decline in ASPs was due mainly to changes in the notebook product line up that leveraged declines in component costs and competitive pressures in consumer PCs. PSG earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 1.7 percentage points for fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. The increase was the result of gross margin improvement combined with flat operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. The gross margin improvement was due primarily to component cost declines, a product mix shift toward higher margin notebook PCs, reduced warranty costs and favorable currency impacts. Operating expense as a percentage of revenue was flat, as the impact of the employee bonuses recorded in the second half of the year was offset by continued cost control measures. PSG net revenue increased 16% in fiscal 2004 from fiscal 2003. On a constant currency basis, the increase was 10%. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro. In fiscal 2004, the net revenue increase across all businesses was the result primarily of an overall 17% volume increase. Volume increases were the result of strong market growth in both consumer and commercial clients, our re entry into the China market and the introduction of new products such as the media center PCs, widescreen notebook PCs, converged devices and a broader product line offering in pen based iPAQs. In fiscal 2004, consumer and commercial desktop PC volumes increased 15% and 11%, respectively, while notebook PC volume increased 22%. The volume increase was moderated by a slight decline in ASPs. The ASP decline was due to a mix shift toward lower end personal workstations and iPAQ handhelds, as well as component cost declines, and was offset partially by a strong monitor attach rate in business PCs. Year over year net revenue increases in consumer and commercial desktop PCs were 15% and 12%, respectively, while notebook PC net revenue increased 22%. PSG earnings from operations as a percent of net revenue were 0.8% in fiscal 2004 compared to 0.1% in fiscal 2003. The increase was the result of volume increases and a decline in operating expenses of 1.3 percentage points, which was offset by a decline in gross margin of 0.5 percentage points. The operating expense decline was due to headcount reductions, tightening of administrative costs, lower research and development spending and scale efficiencies in selling and marketing costs. 53 The gross margin decline were due primarily to continued competitive pressures in Europe, expansion into developing markets and a shift towards lower end products. Imaging and Printing Group For the fiscal years ended October 31 2005 2004 2003 In millions Net revenue $ 25,155 $ 24,199 $ 22,569 Earnings from operations $ 3,413 $ 3,843 $ 3,591 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 13.6 % 15.9 % 15.9 % The components of weighted average net revenue growth, by business unit were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2005 2004 Percentage points Supplies 3.4 5.3 Commercial hardware 1.4 1.7 Consumer hardware (0.7 ) (0.1 ) Other (0.1 ) 0.3 Total IPG 4.0 7.2 IPG net revenue increased 4% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. On a constant currency basis, the net revenue increase was 2% in fiscal 2005. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro and the yen for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 and to a lesser extent in the fourth fiscal quarter as the dollar strengthened against the euro and the yen during that period. For fiscal 2005, the growth in supplies net revenue was attributable primarily to unit growth in LaserJet toner, due primarily to increased sales of color related products. The growth in commercial hardware net revenue in fiscal 2005 was attributable to unit volume growth in color LaserJet printers, multifunction printers and the digital press business. New product introductions added to the net revenue growth in multifunction printers. The effect of the commercial hardware volume increase was offset partially by decreasing ASPs. For fiscal 2005, consumer hardware net revenue decreased. This decline was the result of continuing decreases in ASPs due to strategic pricing actions, the continued mix shift in demand to lower priced products, intense competition in both the all in one and single function inkjet printers and the ongoing decline in the scanner market. For fiscal 2005, IPG earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue declined by 2.3 percentage points due to a 2.4 percentage point decline in gross margin which was offset partially by a 0.1 percentage point decline in operating expenses. The gross margin decline was attributable to a mix shift within supplies from inkjet cartridges to LaserJet toner, a low end mix shift in consumer hardware, voluntary severance incentive charges and strategic pricing actions. Operating expense, as a percentage of net revenue, remained relatively flat year over year, with a slight increase in spending due to voluntary severance incentive charges taken in the first half of the fiscal year and the second half of the year employee bonus expense offsetting the favorable impact of headcount reductions and lower program spending in research and development. 54  IPG net revenue increased 7% in fiscal 2004 from fiscal 2003. On a constant currency basis, the net revenue increase was 2% in fiscal 2004. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro. The growth in printer supplies net revenue in fiscal 2004 reflected higher volumes as a result of the continued expansion of the printer hardware installed base, due primarily to the strong performance of color related products and digital photography initiatives. In fiscal 2004, the growth in commercial printer hardware net revenue was attributable to unit volume growth in color LaserJet printers, business inkjet printers, monochrome LaserJet printers and the increasing demand for multi function printers. A continued shift in demand to lower priced products and a competitive pricing environment moderated the net revenue increase in business printer hardware during the period. Net revenue remained unchanged in digital imaging products as a result of growth in camera unit shipments, which was offset by a decrease in sales of scanners due to a declining market. The decline in consumer printer hardware was the result of decreases in ASPs due to the continued shift in demand to lower priced products, particularly in the sub $200 all in one market, as well as a decline in sales of single function devices. In fiscal 2004, earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue were 15.9%, which was consistent with fiscal 2003. As a percentage of net revenue, both operating expense and gross margin remained flat in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003. Gross margin improvement in supplies was due in part to cost reductions and volume increases, which were moderated by a mix shift to lower margin products. Gross margin improvement also was the result of favorable mix shifts in consumer printer hardware. Gross margin declines in digital imaging and commercial printer hardware, due in part to a shift to lower margin products in an increasingly competitive pricing environment, moderated the improvement. Within total operating expense, there was a slight increase in administrative expense, which was offset by a slight decline in selling costs, while both research and development costs and marketing costs, as a percentage of net revenue, remained flat for fiscal 2004. HP Financial Services For the fiscal years ended October 31 2005 2004 2003 In millions Net revenue $ 2,102 $ 1,895 $ 1,921 Earnings from operations $ 213 $ 125 $ 79 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 10.1 % 6.6 % 4.1 % HPFS net revenue increased 11% in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. The net revenue increase was the result primarily of higher used equipment sales and a higher mix of leases classified as operating leases. In fiscal 2005, the 3.5 percentage point increase in earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue consisted of a 3.6 percentage point increase in gross margin partially offset by a 0.1 percentage point increase in operating expense. The gross margin increase resulted primarily from lower bad debt expense, which was offset partially by a higher mix of lower margin operating lease assets. The decrease in bad debt expense was due in part to the release in fiscal 2005 of $40 million of reserves related to aged receivables in EMEA that have since been collected. The reserves were established in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Recoveries from accounts in Latin America previously written off, lower credit 55 losses and a reduction of reserves resulting from a stronger portfolio risk profile also contributed to the decrease in bad debt expense. The slight increase in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue was the result mainly of a $62 million net reduction in revenue resulting from the reclassification of certain leases from operating leases to capital leases. This reclassification was the result of a review of the leasing portfolio for appropriate lease classification that HP completed in the fourth quarter. HPFS net revenue decreased 1% in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003. The decrease resulted primarily from lower average levels of revenue generating assets and lower used equipment sales. The decrease in average assets was due to portfolio amortization and asset sales exceeding new lease originations throughout most of the fiscal year. Lower interest rates also contributed to the net revenue decrease. In fiscal 2004, the 2.5 percentage point increase in earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue consisted of a 1.3 percentage point increase in gross margin and a 1.2 percentage point decrease in operating expense. The gross margin improvement was the result of higher portfolio profitability resulting primarily from end of lease transactions and, to a lesser extent, lower interest costs as a percentage of net revenue. The gross margin increase was offset in part by higher reserves related to certain aged receivables, particularly in EMEA, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Cost savings achieved through continued cost controls, offset in part by an unfavorable currency impact, caused the decline in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. Financing Originations For the fiscal years ended October 31 2005 2004 2003 In millions Total financing originations $ 4,136 $ 3,852 $ 3,784 New financing originations, which include intercompany activity, increased 7% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. The increase resulted from improved integration and engagement with HPs sales and marketing efforts and a favorable currency impact. Originations increased 2% in fiscal 2004 from fiscal 2003 due to higher levels of financing in Asia Pacific and a favorable currency impact, which were offset in part by a lower penetration rate of HP sales. Portfolio Assets and Ratios HPFS maintains a strategy to generate a competitive return on equity by effectively leveraging its portfolio against the risks associated with interest rates and credit. The HPFS business model is asset intensive and uses certain internal metrics to measure its performance against other financial services companies, including a segment balance sheet that is derived from HPs internal management reporting system. The accounting policies used to derive these amounts are substantially the same as those used by HP on a consolidated basis. However, certain intercompany loans and accounts that are reflected in the segment balances are eliminated in HPs Consolidated Financial Statements. 56 The portfolio assets and ratios derived from the segment balance sheet for HPFS were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2005 2004 In millions Portfolio assets(1) $ 7,085 $ 7,380 Allowance for doubtful accounts 111 213 Operating lease equipment reserve 45 51 Total reserves 156 264 Net portfolio assets $ 6,929 $ 7,116 Reserve coverage 2.2 % 3.6 % Debt to equity ratio(2) 5.5 x 5.1 x (1)Portfolio assets include financing receivables of $5.0 billion at October 31, 2005 and $5.3 billion at October 31, 2004 and net equipment under operating leases of $1.3 billion at October 31, 2005 and $1.4 billion at October 31, 2004, as disclosed in Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Portfolio assets also include capitalized profit on intercompany equipment transactions of approximately $400 million at both October 31, 2005 and October 31, 2004 and intercompany leases of approximately $400 million at October 31, 2005 and $300 million at October 31, 2004, both of which are eliminated in consolidation. (2)HPFS debt consists of intercompany equity that is treated as debt for segment reporting purposes, intercompany debt and debt issued directly by HPFS. Portfolio assets at October 31, 2005 decreased 4% from October 31, 2004. The decrease resulted primarily from collections of billed receivables, a decline in the exchange rate between the euro and the dollar and the write off of assets covered by specific reserves. The overall percentage of portfolio assets reserved decreased due primarily to the write off of assets covered by specific reserves, the release of $40 million of reserves for aged receivables in EMEA that have since been collected and lower reserves resulting from a stronger portfolio risk profile. HPFS funds its operations mainly through a combination of intercompany debt and equity. The increase in the debt to equity ratio reflects a planned increase in portfolio leverage. Corporate Investments For the fiscal years ended October 31 2005 2004 2003 In millions Net revenue $ 523 $ 449 $ 345 Loss from operations $ (174 ) $ (179 ) $ (161 ) Loss from operations as a % of net revenue (33.3 )% (39.9 )% (46.7 )% In fiscal 2005, the majority of the net revenue in Corporate Investments related to network infrastructure products, which increased 20% from fiscal 2004 as a result of continued product enhancements, particularly in gigabit Ethernet switch products. Expenses related to corporate development, global alliances and HP Labs increased 5% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. The increase was due to higher spending on strategic initiatives and incubation 57 programs. These expenses, which contributed to the majority of the loss from operations for Corporate Investments, were offset in part by operating profit from network infrastructure product sales. Corporate Investments loss from operations for fiscal 2005 decreased slightly from the prior fiscal year due to an increase in operating profit in network infrastructure products as a result of increasing operating margins, offset partially by an increase in operating expenses related to corporate development, global alliances and HP Labs. The increase in gross margin was due primarily to a favorable product mix and lower trade discounts as a percentage of net revenue for network infrastructure products. In fiscal 2004, the majority of the net revenue in this segment related to network infrastructure products. Net revenue in this segment grew 27% from fiscal 2003 and was the result of continued enhancements in the overall product portfolio, particularly in gigabit Ethernet switch products. In fiscal 2004, expenses related to corporate development, global alliances and HP Labs increased 10% from the prior fiscal year. The increase was the result in part of increased investment in strategic initiatives. Operating profit for the network infrastructure product group declined slightly in fiscal 2004 due mostly to increased operating expense levels, resulting from headcount growth in research and development, sales and marketing. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, and substantial amounts are held outside of the United States. The Jobs Act, enacted on October 22, 2004, provides for a temporary 85% dividends received deduction on certain foreign earnings repatriated during a one year period. The deduction results in an approximate 5.25% federal tax rate on the repatriated earnings. During the third quarter of fiscal 2005, HPs chief executive officer and Board of Directors approved a domestic reinvestment plan as required by the Jobs Act to repatriate $14.5 billion in foreign earnings in fiscal 2005. HP repatriated $7.5 billion under the Jobs Act in the third quarter and repatriated the remaining $7.0 billion in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Foreign earnings repatriated under the Jobs Act increased liquidity in the United States, with a corresponding reduction of liquidity in HPs foreign subsidiaries. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. 58  FINANCIAL CONDITION (Sources and Uses of Cash) Our total cash and cash equivalents increased approximately 10% to $13.9 billion at October 31, 2005 from $12.7 billion at the end of fiscal 2004. Net earnings in fiscal 2005 helped generate $8.0 billion in cash from operating activities. The cash generated by operations in fiscal 2005 funded all of the $6.8 billion in investing and financing activities. Year over year borrowings declined 27% to $5.2 billion at October 31, 2005. The net $6.8 billion used for investing and financing activities during fiscal 2005 included $3.5 billion for share repurchases, $2.0 billion for gross investments in property plant and equipment and $1.8 billion for payments of debt. Cash flows from financing activities benefited from $1.2 billion of proceeds relating to employee stock plans. Our cash position remains strong and our cash balances are sufficient to cover significant cash outlays expected in fiscal 2006 associated with our restructuring actions and company bonus payments. For the fiscal years ended October 31 2005 2004 2003 In millions Net cash provided by operating activities $ 8,028 $ 5,088 $ 6,057 Net cash used in investing activities (1,757 ) (2,454 ) (1,512 ) Net cash used in financing activities (5,023 ) (4,159 ) (1,549 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,248 $ (1,525 ) $ 2,996 Key Performance Metrics October 31 2005 2004 2003 Days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable 39 43 40 Days of supply in inventory 35 39 37 Days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable (52 ) (51 ) (56 ) Cash conversion cycle 22 31 21 Days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable ("DSO") measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. DSO is calculated by dividing accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90 day average net revenue. Days of supply in inventory ("DOS") measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. DOS is calculated by dividing inventory by a 90 day average cost of goods sold. Days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable ("DPO") measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. DPO is calculated by dividing accounts payable by a 90 day average cost of goods sold. Our working capital requirements depend upon our effective management of the cash conversion cycle, which represents effectively the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials to the collection of cash from our customers. The cash conversion cycle is the sum of DSO and DOS less DPO. 59 2005 Compared to 2004 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased by 58% during fiscal 2005. Our cash position benefited primarily from our improved cash conversion cycle, which decreased 9 days compared to fiscal 2004 due primarily to improved effectiveness in accounts receivable collection efforts and improved inventory management. Our cash flow from operations also benefited from delayed payments for restructuring costs and company bonuses. These benefits were offset partially by higher pension contributions. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased by 28% during fiscal 2005 due primarily to lower cash paid for acquisitions and reduced expenditures for property, plant and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased by 21% during fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004. The increase was due primarily to the maturity of our debt and increased repurchases of our common stock. These cash payments were offset partially by increased proceeds from the issuance of common stock related to our employee stock plans. We repaid $1.8 billion of debt during fiscal 2005 compared to $0.3 billion during fiscal 2004 primarily due to the maturity of the $1.5 billion U.S. Dollar Global Notes and the $0.3 billion Medium Term Notes assumed from the Compaq acquisition. Also, proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee plans were $1.2 billion in fiscal 2005 compared to $0.6 billion in fiscal 2004, mainly because higher overall market prices during fiscal 2005 led to increased exercises of employee stock options. We repurchase shares of our common stock under an ongoing program to manage the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans as well as to repurchase shares opportunistically. This program authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions. We completed share repurchases of approximately 150 million shares, of which 148 million shares were settled for $3.5 billion in fiscal 2005, as compared to repurchases and settlements of approximately 172 million shares for $3.3 billion in fiscal 2004. In addition, in November 2004, we paid $51 million in connection with the completion of the fiscal 2004 accelerated share repurchase program. We intend to continue to repurchase shares as a means to manage dilution from the issuance of shares under employee benefit plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically. During fiscal 2005, the Board of Directors of HP authorized an additional $4.0 billion for future repurchases of HPs outstanding shares of common stock. As of October 31, 2005, we had remaining authorization of approximately $3.4 billion for future share repurchases. 2004 Compared to 2003 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities declined by 16% during fiscal 2004. Although our cash position benefited from higher earnings, lower payments for restructuring actions and decreased pension and other post retirement contributions, these improvements were not sufficient to offset the increase in the cash conversion cycle, which rose to 31 days in fiscal 2004 from 21 days in fiscal 2003. 60 The lengthening of the cash conversion cycle was due largely to a $2.3 billion increase in accounts receivable and inventory at October 31, 2004 compared to the prior year and the timing of accounts payable payments. Accounts receivable was impacted unfavorably by currency fluctuations as the U.S. dollar weakened against the euro and a change in the mix of the accounts receivable portfolio. The October 31, 2004 portfolio included a larger portion of U.S. retail and EMEA direct receivables, which generally have longer payment terms compared to the shorter payment terms of commercial receivables. Higher inventory levels at October 31, 2004 reflected planned increases in certain inventories in preparation for the 2004 holiday season as well as a change in the timing of new product rollouts, particularly within IPG and PSG. HP introduced these products on a staggered basis during the latter half of fiscal 2004, with certain IPG products rolled out in the first month of fiscal 2004, as compared to the more focused marketing rollout in the third quarter of fiscal 2003. In addition, ESS inventory levels increased due primarily to backlog associated with industry standard servers. Such backlog occurred as a result of component availability at year end. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities rose by 62% in fiscal 2004 due primarily to the $1.1 billion we spent for several business acquisitions, including Triaton GmbH, Synstar plc and Digital GlobalSoft Limited, as compared to the $149 million we spent on acquisitions in fiscal 2003. Capital expenditures increased only slightly, by 7%, during fiscal 2004, with the increase mostly offset by asset disposition activities. Financing Activities The significant increase in net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2004 resulted from a higher level of share repurchases compared to fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2004, HPs Board of Directors authorized $5.0 billion for future repurchases of outstanding shares, including an authorization of $3.0 billion in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. We completed share repurchases of approximately 172 million shares for $3.3 billion in fiscal 2004, including approximately 72 million shares under an accelerated share repurchase program, as compared to repurchases of 40 million shares for $751 million in fiscal 2003. As of October 31, 2004, we had remaining authorization of approximately $2.9 billion for future share repurchases. Proceeds from the issuance of stock options and shares sold to employees under the stock purchase plan were $570 million, or 18% higher in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003, mainly because of higher overall market prices during fiscal 2004. Also during fiscal 2004, borrowing activity as compared to the prior fiscal year was significantly reduced. Net debt repayments in fiscal 2004 totaled $448 million and reflected lower net levels of commercial paper borrowings and current maturities payable. Fiscal 2003 borrowings activity included the issuance of debt as well as repayments, which on a net repayment basis totaled $303 million. LIQUIDITY As previously discussed, we use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity, since we believe that internally generated cash flows are sufficient to support our business operations, capital expenditures and the payment of dividends to our stockholders, in addition to current levels of discretionary investments and share repurchases. We are able to supplement this near term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and credit line facilities made available by various foreign and domestic financial institutions. 61 We maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, geographic location of cash generated by operations and the overall cost of capital. Outstanding debt at October 31, 2005 decreased to $5.2 billion as compared to $7.1 billion at October 31, 2004, bearing weighted average interest rates of 4.7% and 5.3%, respectively. Short term borrowings decreased to $1.8 billion at October 31, 2005 from $2.5 billion at October 31, 2004. The decrease reflects primarily the repayment of the $1.5 billion U.S. Dollar Global Notes and the $300 million Medium Term Notes assumed from the Compaq acquisition, offset partially by the reclassification from long term to short term of $200 million of Series A Medium Term Notes maturing in December 2005 and $900 million of Euro Medium Term Notes maturing in July 2006. In addition, during fiscal 2005, we issued $11.4 billion and repaid $11.5 billion of commercial paper. We did not issue any material long term debt during fiscal 2005. HP, and not the HPFS financing business, issued or assumed the vast majority of HPs total outstanding debt. Like other financial services companies, HPFS, which, as explained above, uses intercompany equity that is treated as debt for segment reporting purposes, has a business model that is asset intensive in nature and therefore is more debt dependent than our other business segments. At October 31, 2005, HPFS had approximately $6.9 billion in net portfolio assets, which include short and long term financing receivables and operating lease assets. At October 31, 2005, we had the following resources available to obtain short term or long term financing for additional liquidity: At October 31, 2005 Original Amount Available Used Available In millions 2002 registration statement Debt, global securities and up to $1,500 of Series B Medium Term Notes $ 3,000 $ 2,000 $ 1,000 Euro Medium Term Notes 3,000 900 2,100 U. S. Credit Facilities Expiring March 2006 1,500 1,500 Expiring March 2009 1,500 1,500 Lines of credit 2,250 56 2,194 Commercial paper programs U.S. 6,000 6,000 Euro 500 208 292 $ 17,750 $ 3,164 $ 14,586 The securities issuable under the 2002 shelf registration statement include notes with due dates of nine months or more from issuance. Until December 15, 2005, HP had two U.S. credit facilities consisting of a $1.5 billion 364 day credit facility expiring in March 2006 and a $1.5 billion 5 year credit facility expiring in March 2009. On December 15, 2005 HP replaced the two credit facilities with a $3.0 billion 5 year credit facility. The U.S. credit facility is available for general corporate purposes, including the support of our U.S. commercial paper program. The lines of credit are uncommitted and are available primarily through various foreign subsidiaries. In April 2005, HP increased its U.S. commercial paper program to $6.0 billion. 62 HPs credit risk is evaluated by three independent rating agencies based upon publicly available information as well as information obtained in our ongoing discussions with them. Standard & Poors Rating Services, Moodys Investor Service and Fitch Ratings currently rate our senior unsecured long term debt A , A3 and A and our short term debt A 1, Prime 1, and F1, respectively. We do not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our debt. However, a downgrade in our credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under our credit facilities. Also, a downgrade in our credit rating could limit or, in the case of a significant downgrade, preclude our ability to issue commercial paper under our current programs. If we were so limited or precluded from borrowing, we would seek alternative sources of funding, including the issuance of notes under our existing shelf registration statement and our Euro Medium Term Note Programme or our credit facilities. We have revolving trade receivables based facilities permitting us to sell certain trade receivables to third parties on a non recourse basis. The aggregate maximum capacity under these programs was approximately $1.2 billion as of October 31, 2005. The facility with the largest volume is one that is subject to a maximum amount of 525 million euros, or approximately $630 million (the "Euro Program"). Trade receivables of approximately $7.9 billion were sold during fiscal 2005, including approximately $5.4 billion under the Euro Program. Fees associated with these facilities do not generally differ materially from the cash discounts offered to customers under other alternative prompt payment programs. As of October 31, 2005, there was approximately $571 million available under these programs, of which $357 million relates to the Euro Program. Contractual Obligations The impact that our contractual obligations as of October 31, 2005 are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods is as follows: Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years In millions Long term debt, including capital lease obligations(1) $ 4,817 $ 1,167 $ 2,569 $ 19 $ 1,062 Operating lease obligations 2,028 541 749 460 278 Purchase obligations(2) 2,092 1,417 430 212 33 Total $ 8,937 $ 3,125 $ 3,748 $ 691 $ 1,373 (1)Amounts represent the expected cash payments of our long term debt and do not include any fair value adjustments or discounts. Included in our long term debt are approximately $39 million of capital lease obligations that are secured by certain equipment. (2)Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on HP and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable without penalty. These purchase obligations are related principally to cost of sales, inventory and other items. Our purchase obligation includes the settlement agreement with EMC Corporation ("EMC") pursuant to which HP agreed to pay $325 million (the net amount of the valuation of EMCs claims against HP less the valuation of HPs claims against EMC) to EMC, which HP can satisfy through the purchase for resale or internal use of complementary EMC products in equal installments of $65 million over the next five years, of which the first installment was paid on August 29, 2005. As 63 of October 31, 2005, the remaining payment to EMC is $260 million. In addition, if EMC purchases HP products during the five year period, HP will be required to purchase an equivalent amount of additional products or services from EMC of up to an aggregate of $108 million. On November 1, 2005, HP acquired substantially all of the assets of Scitex Vision Ltd., a market leader in super wide digital imaging, for $230 million in cash. This acquisition is expected to expand HPs leadership in printing into the industrial wide format market. On September 19, 2005, HP announced it signed a definitive agreement to acquire Peregrine Systems, Inc. ("Peregrine") in a cash merger for $26.08 per share, representing an aggregate equity value of $425 million. The acquisition of Peregrine, completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2006, is intended to add key asset and service management components to the HP OpenView portfolio, a distributed management software suite for business operations and IT. Funding commitments During fiscal 2005, we made contributions of approximately $1.7 billion to our pension plans. We paid approximately $60 million to cover claims cost for the HP post retirement benefit plans. In fiscal 2006, HP expects to contribute approximately $245 million to its pension plans and approximately $40 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non qualified plan participants. HP expects to pay approximately $80 million to cover benefit claims for HPs post retirement benefit plans. HPs funding policy is to contribute cash to HPs pension plans so that HP meets at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government and funding and taxing authorities. HP expects to use contributions made to the post retirement plans primarily for the payment of retiree health claims incurred during the fiscal year. We expect to make significant cash outlays associated with the companys bonus and restructuring plans during fiscal 2006. As a result of our approved restructuring plans, we expect future cash expenditures of approximately $1.2 billion, exclusive of approximately $400 million that will be funded through the pension plan assets for the costs associated with the early retirement of 3,200 U.S. employees, primarily for employee severance and other employee benefits and facilities costs. Of this amount, we recorded $1.19 billion on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at October 31, 2005, and we intend to expense $30 million in future periods as we incur the costs or we meet the requirements to record the costs as a liability. We expect to make cash payments of approximately $1.0 billion in fiscal 2006 and approximately $200 million over the next five fiscal years. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities ("SPEs"), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of October 31, 2005, we are not involved in any material unconsolidated SPEs. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, HP enters into contractual arrangements under which HP may agree to indemnify the third party to such arrangement from any losses incurred relating to the services they perform on behalf of HP or for losses arising from certain events as defined within the particular contract, which may include, for example, litigation or claims relating to past performance. Such indemnification obligations may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, payments HP has made related to these indemnifications have been immaterial. 64   ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and equity price risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. Our risk management strategy with respect to these three market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. We use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures of HP. Accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. Our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair values for each of these exposures are outlined below. Actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price movements and our actual exposures and hedges. Foreign currency exchange rate risk We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We transact business in approximately 40 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to our operations for fiscal 2005 were the euro, the Japanese yen and the British pound. For most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currency. Even where HP is a net receiver, a weaker U.S. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures taken alone. We use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, HP may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for U.S. dollar denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. HP also uses other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. HP recognizes the gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts in the same period as the remeasurement losses and gains of the related foreign currency denominated exposures. Alternatively, HP may choose not to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with its foreign currency exposures if such exposure acts as a natural foreign currency hedge for other offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency. We have performed sensitivity analyses as of October 31, 2005 and 2004, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held constant. The analyses cover all of our foreign currency contracts offset by the underlying exposures. The foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect at October 31, 2005 and 2004. The sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange loss of $90 million at October 31, 2005 and $71 million at October 31, 2004. Interest rate risk We also are exposed to interest rate risk related to our debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. HP issues long term debt in either U.S. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. HP then typically uses interest rate swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve primarily U.S. dollar LIBOR based floating interest expense and to manage exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. The swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. However, HP may 65 choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if the fixed rate liability is offset with fixed rate assets. In order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed rate investments, HP may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. HP may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of LIBOR based interest income received on certain variable rate investments. HP may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed rate interest returns. We have performed sensitivity analyses as of October 31, 2005 and 2004, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. The analyses cover our debt, investment instruments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. The analyses use actual maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps and approximate maturities for financing receivables. The discount rates we used were based on the market interest rates in effect at October 31, 2005 and 2004. The sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investment instruments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swap positions, of $4 million at October 31, 2005 and $2 million at October 31, 2004. Equity price risk We also are exposed to equity price risk inherent in our portfolio of publicly traded equity securities, which had an estimated fair value of $64 million at October 31, 2005 and $70 million at October 31, 2004. We monitor our equity investments for impairment on a periodic basis. In the event that the carrying value of the equity investment exceeds its fair value, and we determine the decline in value to be other than temporary, we reduce the carrying value to its current fair value. Generally, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these equity securities. However, we may use derivative transactions to hedge certain positions from time to time. We do not purchase our equity securities with the intent to use them for trading or speculative purposes. A hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair values of our marketable equity securities of $19 million at October 31, 2005 and $21 million at October 31, 2004. The aggregate cost of privately held companies and other investments is $353 million at October 31, 2005 and $388 million at October 31, 2004. 66   
 
