ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. HEWLETT PACKARD COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. OVERVIEW We are a leading global technology company and generate net revenue and earn our profits from the sale of products, technologies, solutions and services to consumers, businesses and governments. Our portfolio is broad and includes personal computers, handheld computing devices, home and business imaging and printing devices, publishing systems, storage and servers, a wide array of information technology ("IT") services and software solutions. We have seven business segments: Enterprise Storage and Servers ("ESS"), HP Services ("HPS"), Software, the Personal Systems Group ("PSG"), the Imaging and Printing Group ("IPG"), HP Financial Services ("HPFS"), and Corporate Investments. ESS, HPS and Software are structured beneath a broader Technology Solutions Group ("TSG"). While TSG is not an operating segment, we sometimes provide financial data aggregating the segments within TSG in order to provide a supplementary view of our business. Our product and geographic breadth requires us to focus on strategic imperatives within individual product categories and to manage across our portfolio in order to drive growth while optimizing cost structure. Our financial results also are impacted by our ability to predict and to respond to industry wide trends. For instance, a trend that is significant to our business and financial results is the shift toward standardized products, which presents revenue opportunities for certain of our businesses but presents an ongoing challenge to our margins. To help address the potential margin impact of standardization, we take ongoing actions related to both revenue generation and cost structure management. In the sales and marketing area, we have programs designed to improve the rates at which we sell higher margin configurations or options. We also continue to focus on managing procurement and labor expenses. Key to our overall efforts in delivering superior products while maintaining a world class cost structure is the increasingly global nature of technology expertise. This trend is allowing us to develop a global delivery structure to take advantage of regions where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs. As part of our efforts to improve efficiencies and reduce costs, we continually evaluate our workforce and infrastructure and make adjustments we deem appropriate. When we make adjustments to our workforce and infrastructure, we may incur incremental expenses that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure, but we believe that the fundamental shift to more efficient global delivery is crucial to maintaining a long term competitive cost structure. Recent adjustments include: Our plans announced in May 2006 to reduce our IT spending by consolidating 85 data centers worldwide into six state of the art centers in three U.S. cities; and Our plans announced in July 2006 to reduce our real estate costs by consolidating several hundred real estate locations worldwide to fewer core sites over the next four years. We continue to implement the 2005 restructuring plan that was approved by our Board of Directors in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. As part of that plan, we announced in June 2006 that we would integrate the activities carried out by our Global Operations organization directly into our business segments. Under the 2005 restructuring plan, we expect to eliminate approximately 15,200 positions through workforce restructuring or early retirement programs. Approximately 14,200 of these positions have been eliminated as of October 31, 2006. The majority of the remaining 1,000 positions 35 are expected to be eliminated during fiscal 2007. We expect to reinvest a significant portion of the savings from these actions back into our business operations or use these savings to offset market forces. For more information on our restructuring plan, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. In terms of how our execution has translated into financial performance, the following provides an overview of our key fiscal 2006 financial metrics: TSG HP Consolidated ESS HPS Software Total IPG PSG HPFS In millions, except per share amounts Net revenue $ 91,658 $ 17,308 $ 15,617 $ 1,301 $ 34,226 $ 26,786 $ 29,166 $ 2,078 Year over year net revenue % increase 6 % 4 % 1 % 23 % 3 % 6 % 9 % (1 )% Earnings from operations $ 6,560 $ 1,446 $ 1,507 $ 85 $ 3,038 $ 3,978 $ 1,152 $ 147 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 7.2 % 8.4 % 9.6 % 6.5 % 8.9 % 14.9 % 3.9 % 7.1 % Net earnings $ 6,198 Net earnings per share Basic $ 2.23 Diluted $ 2.18 Cash and cash equivalents at October 31, 2006 totaled $16.4 billion, an increase of $2.5 billion from the October 31, 2005 balance of $13.9 billion. The increase for fiscal 2006 was related primarily to $11.4 billion of net cash provided by operating activities and $2.5 billion of proceeds from shares issued in connection with our employee stock plans. The increase was partially offset by $6.1 billion paid to repurchase our common stock, $2.0 billion of net investments in property, plant and equipment, a $1.7 billion prepayment for common stock to be repurchased in the future, $0.9 billion for cash dividends and $0.9 billion for net cash paid for business acquisitions. We intend the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to provide information that will assist in understanding our Consolidated Financial Statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. The discussion of results of operations at the consolidated level is followed by a more detailed discussion of results of operations by segment. For a further discussion of factors that could impact operating results, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES General The Consolidated Financial Statements of HP are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are 36 not readily apparent from other sources. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of HPs Board of Directors. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, if different estimates reasonably could have been used, or if changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur could materially impact the financial statements. Management believes the following critical accounting policies reflect the significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition We enter into contracts to sell our products and services, and, while the majority of our sales agreements contain standard terms and conditions, there are agreements that contain multiple elements or non standard terms and conditions. As a result, significant contract interpretation is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in a multiple element arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and, if so, how the price should be allocated among the elements and when to recognize revenue for each element. We recognize revenue for delivered elements only when the fair values of undelivered elements are known, uncertainties regarding customer acceptance are resolved and there are no customer negotiated refund or return rights affecting the revenue recognized for delivered elements. Changes in the allocation of the sales price between elements might impact the timing of revenue recognition but would not change the total revenue recognized on the contract. We recognize revenue as work progresses on certain fixed price contracts, such as consulting arrangements. Using a proportional performance method, we estimate the total expected labor costs in order to determine the amount of revenue earned to date. We follow this basis because reasonably dependable estimates of the labor costs applicable to various stages of a contract can be made. Total contract profit is subject to revisions throughout the life of the contract. We record changes in revenue as a result of revisions to cost estimates to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. We record estimated reductions to revenue for customer and distributor programs and incentive offerings, including price protection, promotions, other volume based incentives and expected returns. Future market conditions and product transitions may require us to take actions to increase customer incentive offerings, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. Additionally, certain incentive programs require us to estimate, based on historical experience, the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Restructuring We have engaged, and may continue to engage, in restructuring actions, which require management to utilize significant estimates related to expenses for severance and other employee separation costs, realizable values of assets made redundant or obsolete, lease cancellation and other exit costs. If the actual amounts differ from our estimates, the amount of the restructuring charges could be materially impacted. For a full description of our restructuring actions, refer to our discussions 37 of restructuring in the Results of Operations section and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference. Stock Based Compensation Expense Effective November 1, 2005, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123 (revised 2004), "Shared Based Payment" ("SFAS 123R"), using the modified prospective transition method, and therefore have not restated prior periods results. Under this method, we recognize stock based compensation expense for all share based payment awards granted after November 1, 2005 and granted prior to but not yet vested as of November 1, 2005, in accordance with SFAS 123R. Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123R, we recognize stock based compensation expense net of an estimated forfeiture rate and recognize compensation cost for only those shares expected to vest on a straight line basis over the requisite service period of the award. Prior to SFAS 123R adoption, we accounted for share based payment awards under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25") and, accordingly, generally recognized compensation expense only when we granted options with a discounted exercise price. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of share based payment awards require the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the share based payment awards and stock price volatility. Management determined that implied volatility calculated based on actively traded options on HP common stock is a better indicator of expected volatility and future stock price trends than historical volatility. Therefore, expected volatility in fiscal years 2006 and 2005 was based on a market based implied volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share based payment awards represent managements best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our stock based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If our actual forfeiture rate is materially different from our estimate, the stock based compensation expense could be significantly different from what we have recorded in the current period. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a further discussion on stock based compensation. Taxes on Earnings We calculate our current and deferred tax provisions based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual results reflected in our income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. We record adjustments based on filed returns when we have identified and finalized them, which is generally in the third and fourth quarters of the subsequent year for U.S. federal and state provisions, respectively. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. We record a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount that we are more likely than not to realize. We have considered future market growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, we would increase the 38 valuation allowance and make a corresponding charge to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. Likewise, if we later determine that we are more likely than not to realize the net deferred tax assets, we would reverse the applicable portion of the previously provided valuation allowance. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in the tax jurisdictions in which the deferred tax assets are located. Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which we have not provided U.S. taxes because we plan to reinvest such earnings indefinitely outside the United States. We plan foreign earnings remittance amounts based on projected cash flow needs as well as the working capital and long term investment requirements of our foreign subsidiaries and our domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount we will distribute to the United States and provide the U.S. federal taxes due on these amounts. Further, as a result of certain employment actions and capital investments HP has undertaken, income from manufacturing activities in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates, and in some cases is wholly exempt from taxes, for fiscal years through 2019. Material changes in our estimates of cash, working capital and long term investment requirements in the various jurisdictions in which we do business could impact our effective tax rate. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and over sixty foreign countries, and we are subject to routine corporate income tax audits in many of these jurisdictions. We believe that our tax return positions are fully supported, but tax authorities are likely to challenge certain positions, which may not be fully sustained. However, our income tax expense includes amounts intended to satisfy income tax assessments that result from these challenges. Determining the income tax expense for these potential assessments and recording the related assets and liabilities requires significant management judgments and estimates. We evaluate our income tax contingencies in accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies." We believe that our reserve for income tax liabilities, including related interest, is adequate in relation to the potential for additional tax assessments. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. Our reserve for income tax liabilities is attributable primarily to uncertainties concerning the tax treatment of our international operations, including the allocation of income among different jurisdictions, and related interest. We review our reserves quarterly, and we may adjust such reserves because of proposed assessments by tax authorities, changes in facts and circumstances, issuance of new regulations or new case law, previously unavailable information obtained during the course of an examination, negotiations between tax authorities of different countries concerning our transfer prices, execution of Advanced Pricing Agreements, resolution with respect to individual audit issues, the resolution of entire audits, or the expiration of statutes of limitations. Material adjustments are most likely to occur in the fiscal years in which major ongoing audits, such as audits by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), are closed. In addition, our tax contingency reserve includes certain amounts for potential tax assessments for pre acquisition tax years of acquired companies which, if released, will impact the carrying value of goodwill attributable to the acquired company. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts using a combination of factors to ensure that we have not overstated our trade and financing receivables balances due to uncollectibility. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for all customers based on a variety of factors, including the length of time receivables are past due, trends in overall weighted average risk rating of the total portfolio, macroeconomic conditions, significant one time events, historical experience and the use of 39 third party credit risk models that generate quantitative measures of default probabilities based on market factors, and the financial condition of customers. Also, we record specific provisions for individual accounts when we become aware of a customers inability to meet its financial obligations to us, such as in the case of bankruptcy filings or deterioration in the customers operating results or financial position. If circumstances related to customers change, we would further adjust our estimates of the recoverability of receivables either upward or downward. The annual provision for doubtful accounts is approximately 0.03% of net revenue over the last three fiscal years. Using our third party credit risk model at October 31, 2006, a 50 basis point deterioration in either the weighted average default probabilities of our significant customers or in the overall mix of our portfolio would have resulted in an approximately $26 million increase to our trade allowance at the end of fiscal year 2006. Inventory We state our inventory at the lower of cost or market. We make adjustments to reduce the cost of inventory to its net realizable value, if required, at the product group level for estimated excess, obsolescence or impaired balances. Factors influencing these adjustments include changes in demand, rapid technological changes, product life cycle and development plans, component cost trends, product pricing, physical deterioration and quality issues. Revisions to these adjustments would be required if these factors differ from our estimates. Valuation of Goodwill and Indefinite Lived Purchased Intangible Assets We review goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." The provisions of SFAS No. 142 require that we perform a two step impairment test on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. Our reporting units are consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. We determine the fair value of our reporting units based on a weighting of income and market approaches. Under the income approach, we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. Under the market approach, we estimate the fair value based on market multiples of revenue or earnings for comparable companies. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then we record an impairment loss equal to the difference. SFAS No. 142 also requires that the fair value of the purchased intangible assets with indefinite lives be estimated and compared to the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of these intangible assets using an income approach. We recognize an impairment loss when the estimated fair value of the intangible asset is less than the carrying value. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit or an indefinite lived purchased intangible asset is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk adjusted discount rates, assumed royalty rates, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual 40 future results may differ from those estimates. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of our reporting units. Our annual goodwill impairment analysis, which we performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of fair value over carrying value for each of HPs reporting units as of August 1, 2006, the annual testing date, ranged from approximately $350 million to approximately $41.4 billion. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations on the goodwill impairment test, we applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit. This hypothetical 10% decrease would result in excess fair value over carrying value ranging from approximately $200 million to approximately $36.6 billion for each of HPs reporting units. Warranty Provision We provide for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time we recognize revenue. We evaluate our warranty obligations on a product group basis. Our standard product warranty terms generally include post sales support and repairs or replacement of a product at no additional charge for a specified period of time. While we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers, we base our estimated warranty obligation upon warranty terms, ongoing product failure rates, repair costs, product call rates, average cost per call, and current period product shipments. If actual product failure rates, repair rates, service delivery costs or post sales support costs differ from our estimates, we would be required to make revisions to the estimated warranty liability. Warranty terms generally range from 90 days parts only to three years parts and labor, depending upon the product. Over the last three fiscal years, the annual warranty provision has averaged approximately 3.6% of annual net product revenue, while actual annual warranty costs have averaged approximately 3.4% of annual net product revenue. Retirement Benefits Our pension and other post retirement benefit costs and obligations are dependent on various assumptions. Our major assumptions relate primarily to discount rates, salary growth, long term return on plan assets and medical cost trend rates. We base the discount rate assumption on current investment yields of high quality fixed income investments during the retirement benefits maturity period. The salary growth assumptions reflect our long term actual experience and future and near term outlook. Long term return on plan assets is determined based on historical portfolio results and managements expectation of the future economic environment, as well as target asset allocations. Our medical cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near term outlook and an assessment of likely long term trends. Actual results that differ from our assumptions are accumulated and are amortized generally over the estimated future working life of the plan participants. Our major assumptions vary by plan and the weighted average rates used are set forth in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Each assumption has different sensitivity characteristics, and, in general, changes, if any, have moved in the 41 same direction over the last several years. For fiscal 2006, changes in the weighted average rates would have had the following impact on our net periodic benefit cost: a decrease of 25 basis points in the long term rate of return would have increased our net benefit cost by approximately $31 million; a decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate would have increased our net benefit cost by approximately $49 million; and an increase of 25 basis points in the future compensation rate would have increased our net benefit cost by approximately $27 million. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of net revenue were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2006 2005(2) 2004(2) In millions Net revenue $ 91,658 100.0 % $ 86,696 100.0 % $ 79,905 100.0 % Cost of sales(1) 69,427 75.7 % 66,440 76.6 % 60,811 76.1 % Gross profit 22,231 24.3 % 20,256 23.4 % 19,094 23.9 % Research and development 3,591 3.9 % 3,490 4.0 % 3,563 4.5 % Selling, general and administrative 11,266 12.3 % 11,184 13.0 % 10,496 13.1 % Pension curtailment (199 ) (0.2 )% Restructuring charges 158 0.2 % 1,684 1.9 % 114 0.1 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets 604 0.7 % 622 0.7 % 603 0.8 % In process research and development charges 52 2 37 Acquisition related charges 54 0.1 % Earnings from operations 6,560 7.2 % 3,473 4.0 % 4,227 5.3 % Interest and other, net 606 0.6 % 189 0.2 % 35 Gains (losses) on investments 25 (13 ) 4 Dispute settlement (106 ) (0.1 )% (70 ) (0.1 )% Earnings before taxes 7,191 7.8 % 3,543 4.1 % 4,196 5.2 % Provision for taxes 993 1.0 % 1,145 1.3 % 699 0.8 % Net earnings $ 6,198 6.8 % $ 2,398 2.8 % $ 3,497 4.4 % (1)Cost of products, cost of services and financing interest. (2)Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts in order to conform to the current year presentation. 42 Net Revenue The components of weighted average net revenue growth were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2006 2005 Percentage points Personal Systems Group 2.8 2.7 Imaging and Printing Group 1.9 1.2 Enterprise Storage and Servers 0.7 2.0 Software 0.3 0.2 HP Services 0.1 2.1 HP Financial Services (0.1 ) 0.3 Corporate Investments/Other Total HP 5.7 8.5 In fiscal 2006, HP net revenue increased approximately 6% from the prior year period (7% on a constant currency basis). The unfavorable currency impact for fiscal 2006 was due primarily to the movement of the dollar against the euro and the yen. U.S. net revenue was $32.2 billion for fiscal 2006, an increase of 6% from the prior year, while international net revenue increased 6% to $59.4 billion. PSG net revenue increased across all regions as a result of a 15% volume increase. The volume increase resulted from strong growth in consumer and commercial markets and significant improvement in emerging markets, which was partially offset by 6% and 7% declines in average selling prices ("ASPs") in consumer and commercial clients, respectively. IPG net revenue growth in fiscal 2006 was due mainly to increased shipment volumes of printer supplies resulting from the continued expansion of printer hardware placements and the strong performance of color related products. ESS net revenue growth was the result primarily of strong unit growth in our industry standard servers business ("ISS"), Blade revenue growth, increased option attach rates in our ProLiant server line, continued strong performance in mid range EVA products within our Storage business and revenue increases from our Integrity servers. The ESS growth was moderated by revenue declines in our tape business and PA RISC and Alpha Server product lines. The net revenue growth in Software for fiscal 2006 was due primarily to growth in our OpenView business as a result of the Peregrine acquisition and an increase in support and service contracts. HPS net revenue increased in fiscal 2006 due primarily to revenue increases in management services driven by new business and existing account growth, which were offset by declines in the technology services business resulting from competitive pricing pressures and changes in the mix of platforms being serviced. The HPFS net revenue decline in fiscal 2006 was due primarily to lower used equipment sales. In fiscal 2005, HP net revenue increased approximately 8% from the prior year period (6% on a constant currency basis). The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro and the yen for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 and to a lesser extent in the fourth fiscal quarter as the dollar strengthened against the euro and the yen during that period. U.S. net revenue was $30.5 billion for fiscal 2005, an increase of 4% from the prior year, while international net revenue increased 11% to $56.2 billion. In PSG, net revenue increased across all regions as a result of a 13% volume increase in consumer and commercial clients. The volume increase was partially offset by a decline of 4% in ASPs. Notebook 43 PC sales were the leading contributor to net revenue growth in PSG. HPS achieved net revenue growth across all businesses in fiscal 2005 due in large part to the impact of acquisitions (benefiting primarily technology services) and favorable currency impacts. Additionally, managed services net revenue increased due to both new contract signings and additional contract revenue from the installed base. In fiscal 2005, ESS net revenue growth was the result primarily of continued strong sales of industry standard servers, particularly our ProLiant server line, due to volume increases and higher ASPs resulting from improved option attach rates. IPG net revenue growth in fiscal 2005 was the result of increased unit growth of printer supplies, particularly LaserJet toner, as a result of the increasing demand for color related products. The demand for color related products also added to the revenue growth in commercial hardware. Both Software and HPFS contributed to HP net revenue growth for fiscal 2005 as growing acceptance of our OpenView product offerings contributed to Software revenue growth while higher used equipment sales and a higher mix of operating leases benefited HPFS. Stock Based Compensation Expense Effective November 1, 2005, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123R using the modified prospective transition method and therefore have not restated results for prior periods. Our results of operations in fiscal 2006 were impacted by the recognition of non cash expense related to the fair value of our share based payment awards. In fiscal 2006, we recorded $536 million in pre tax stock based compensation expense based on SFAS 123R, of which $144 million was included in cost of sales, $70 million was included in research and development expense and $322 million was included in sales, general and administrative expense. Total stock based compensation expense for SFAS 123R, net of taxes, in fiscal 2006 was $376 million. In addition, we recognized an adjustment of $14 million to reduce non cash stock based compensation expense which was included as part of our restructuring expenses. The stock based compensation expense related to HP granted employee stock options and the employee stock purchase plan is recorded at the corporate level and therefore does not have an impact on segment results. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Gross Margin The weighted average components of the change in gross margin were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2006 2005 Percentage points Enterprise Storage and Servers 0.4 0.1 HP Services 0.2 (0.5 ) Imaging and Printing Group 0.2 (0.8 ) Software 0.2 0.1 Personal Systems Group 0.1 0.5 HP Financial Services (0.1 ) 0.1 Corporate Investments/Other (0.1 ) Total HP 0.9 (0.5 ) 44  Total company gross margin increased in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. The improvement in ESS gross margin in fiscal 2006 was due primarily to a favorable unit mix, improved discount management, and lower component costs. HPS gross margin increase was driven mainly by the continued focus on cost structure improvement from delivery efficiencies and cost controls, which were partially offset by the continued competitive environment in the solutions and services business and higher fiscal 2006 bonus accruals. For IPG, the gross margin increased in fiscal 2006 due primarily to improved supplies margins and a favorable portfolio mix shift from hardware to supplies, which were partially offset by unfavorable consumer hardware margins. The improvement in Software gross margin in fiscal 2006 was due primarily to an increase in revenue and more effective management of the support and services costs for OpenView and OpenCall. The gross margin improvement in PSG resulted primarily from reduced warranty expense and supply chain costs as a percentage of revenue and component cost declines. HPFS gross margin was impacted unfavorably in fiscal 2006 due primarily to competitor pricing pressures, a higher mix of lower margin operating lease assets and lower recoveries for bad debts, which were partially offset by lower credit losses in fiscal 2006. Total company gross margin decreased in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004. For IPG, the gross margin decline in fiscal 2005 was attributable primarily to a mix shift within supplies from inkjet cartridges to LaserJet toner and continuing decreases in ASPs within hardware due to strategic pricing actions. The gross margin decline in HPS in fiscal 2005 reflected primarily competitive pricing pressures and portfolio mix shifts within technology services along with higher employee bonus costs in the second half of the fiscal year. In fiscal 2005, ESS gross margin increased slightly as the benefits of improved option attach rates in industry standard servers and improved performance in storage helped to offset the unfavorable impact from the continued mix shift towards industry standard servers within the segment and the mix shift to lower margin products within business critical systems. The gross margin contribution for HPFS and Software increased slightly in fiscal 2005 as lower bad debt expense increased gross margin in HPFS, while an increase in both OpenView and OpenCall gross margins benefited the Software business. The gross margin improvement in PSG in fiscal 2005 resulted from component cost declines, product mix shift towards higher margin notebook PCs and reduced warranty costs. Operating Expenses Research and Development Total research and development ("R&D") expense as a percentage of net revenue decreased slightly in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 due primarily to revenue growing faster than R&D expense. R&D expense increased in fiscal 2006 due primarily to higher bonus accruals and stock based compensation expense, which were partially offset by expense controls and cost savings from restructuring actions. As a percentage of net revenue, each of our major segments experienced a year over year decrease in R&D expense in fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2005, total R&D expense as a percentage of net revenue declined from the same period in the prior year due primarily to savings resulting from workforce reductions and tight expense controls. These savings were partially offset by increased costs for the company bonus and costs associated with the workforce rebalancing actions taken in the first half of the fiscal year. As a percentage of net revenue, each of our segments experienced a decrease in research and development expense in fiscal 2005 as we worked to focus our investments and manage realignment, while also continuing to drive new technologies and business opportunities. Such decreases resulted in part from 45 cost control measures, including the benefit from workforce reduction actions in ESS, the consolidation and realignment of certain IPG research and development infrastructure and lower program spending. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense declined as a percentage of net revenue during fiscal 2006 due primarily to the increase in net revenue outpacing SG&A expense growth. Total SG&A expense increased slightly during fiscal 2006 as higher bonus accruals and stock based compensation expenses as well as increased marketing spending were offset in part by savings from expense controls and restructuring actions and favorable currency impacts due to movement of the dollar against the euro and the yen. As a percentage of net revenue, each of our segments experienced a year over year decrease or no change in SG&A expense in fiscal 2006. SG&A expense decreased slightly as a percentage of net revenue during fiscal 2005, as net revenue growth was higher than the growth of SG&A due in part to tight company wide expense controls. On an absolute basis, SG&A spending increased 6.6% in fiscal 2005 due primarily to higher employee bonuses earned in the second half of fiscal 2005 and unfavorable currency impacts. Pension Curtailment In conjunction with managements plan to restructure certain of our operations, as discussed in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, we modified our U.S. retirement programs to align more closely to industry practice. Effective January 1, 2006, we ceased pension accruals and eliminated eligibility for the subsidized retiree medical program for current employees who did not meet defined criteria based on age and years of service. As a result, we recognized a curtailment gain of $199 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 stemming from the elimination of future benefit accruals for the affected employee group. In fiscal 2006, we recognized additional curtailment gains, which were included in our restructuring charges as described below. For more information on our plan design changes, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges in fiscal year 2006 were $158 million. This included a net charge of $233 million related to true ups of severance and other related restructuring charges for all restructuring plans, a $6 million termination benefits expense and a $3 million settlement and curtailment loss from our non U.S. pension plans related to the fiscal 2005 restructuring plan, which was approved by our Board of Directors in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. These charges were partially offset by a $46 million settlement gain from the U.S. pension plans, a $24 million curtailment gain from the U.S. retiree medical program and a $14 million adjustment to reduce our non cash stock based compensation expense, all related to our fiscal 2005 restructuring plan approved in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. The fiscal 2005 restructuring plan was designed to simplify our structure, reduce costs and place greater focus on our customers. We included original estimates of 15,300 positions to be eliminated in the fiscal 2005 restructuring plan. Subsequent to the initial estimate, we reduced the number of total positions to be eliminated to 15,200. Approximately 14,200 positions have been eliminated as of October 31, 2006 in connection with this restructuring plan, including 3,200 U.S. employees who elected to take early retirement. 46 Restructuring charges in fiscal 2005 were $1.7 billion. This included a $1.6 billion charge for the fiscal 2005 restructuring plan approved in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Also of the total charges for fiscal 2005, $109 million was related to severance and related costs associated with the termination of approximately 1,450 employees in connection with a restructuring plan approved by our management in the third quarter of fiscal 2005. All employees under this restructuring plan were terminated as of October 31, 2005. Of the initial restructuring amount, we have paid substantially all of it as of October 31, 2006. Restructuring costs in fiscal 2004 mainly reflected certain charges relating to the fiscal 2003 restructuring plan, which did not meet recognition requirements during fiscal 2003, as well as changes in the original estimates for the fiscal 2003 plan and a fiscal 2002 restructuring plan. Restructuring liabilities of $638 million at October 31, 2006 are composed primarily of the remaining cash payments to be made for severance relating to the fiscal 2005 restructuring plan and certain non U.S. severance benefits and contract termination costs, including canceled facility leases for the other restructuring plans. We expect to make the majority of the remaining severance payments before the end of fiscal 2007 and to settle the non severance obligations by the end of fiscal 2010. For more information on our restructuring charges, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. The following table summarizes the major restructuring activities in aggregate and during each of fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004. For the fiscal years ended October 31 Aggregate Total 2006 2005 2004 In millions, except employee data Restructuring headcount reductions: 2005 plans estimate and estimate revisions 16,650 (100 ) 16,750 2005 plans exits (15,650 ) (9,500 ) (6,150 ) Remaining to exit 1,000 Restructuring program charges: 2005 restructuring charges: Severance and other benefits $ 1,780 $ 106 $ 1,674 $ 2003 restructuring charges 31 4 (10 ) 37 2002 and 2001 restructuring charges 145 48 20 77 Total restructuring charges $ 1,956 $ 158 $ 1,684 $ 114 Goodwill adjustments relating to restructuring plans $ (142 ) $ (25 ) $ (44 ) $ (73 ) Fiscal 2005 Workforce Rebalancing In addition to the restructuring activities described above, in fiscal 2005 we incurred approximately $236 million in workforce rebalancing charges resulting from actions taken by certain business segments for severance and related costs. Workforce rebalancing costs were included in the segment results. We recorded these costs during the six months ended April 30, 2005. As a result of these workforce rebalancing actions, we reduced headcount by approximately 3,000 employees in certain business segments as of October 31, 2005. Of the initial restructuring amount, we have paid substantially all of it as of October 31, 2006. 47 Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The decrease in amortization expense in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 was due primarily to a decrease in amortization expense related to certain intangible assets associated with prior acquisitions including Compaq Computer Corporation ("Compaq") acquisition that had reached the end of their amortization period, partially offset by an increase in amortization expense related primarily to the Scitex Vision Ltd. ("Scitex"), Peregrine Systems, Inc. ("Peregrine"), and OuterBay Technologies, Inc. ("OuterBay") acquisitions in fiscal year 2006. The increase in amortization expense in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 was due primarily to the amortization of intangible assets related to the acquisitions of Triaton in April 2004, Synstar PLC ("Synstar") in October 2004 and SAC, LLC ("Snapfish") in April 2005, as well as accelerated amortization related to the early termination of certain acquired customer contracts. For more information on our amortization of purchased intangibles assets, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Acquisition Related Charges Acquisition related charges in fiscal 2004 consisted of costs related to Compaq acquisition, which included primarily the amortization of deferred compensation, merger related inventory adjustments and professional fees. In Process Research and Development Charges We record in process research & development ("IPR&D") charges in connection with acquisitions accounted for as business combinations, as more fully described in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. In fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 we recorded IPR&D charges of $52 million, $2 million and $37 million, respectively, related to acquisitions during those years. Interest and Other, Net Interest and other, net increased by $417 million in fiscal 2006 from fiscal 2005. The increase in fiscal 2006 resulted primarily from higher net interest income over the prior year related to higher short term interest rates in fiscal 2006, net gains from sales of certain real estate properties, and lower interest expenses due to our lower average debt balances. The increase in fiscal 2006 also was attributable to a charge recorded in fiscal 2005 for estimated sales and use taxes and related interest associated with pre acquisition Compaq sales and use tax audits as described below. Interest and other, net increased by $154 million in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. The increase in fiscal 2005 was the result primarily of higher short term U.S. interest rates, which increased the interest income from our cash balances and reduced the cost associated with foreign exchange hedges. Increased interest expense and a charge related to a sales and use tax audit of Compaq prior to its acquisition by HP for the fiscal years 1998 2002 partially offset the increase in interest and other, net for fiscal 2005. Gains (Losses) on Investments Net gains in fiscal 2006 resulted primarily from gains on the sale of investments, which were offset in part by impairment charges on our investment portfolio. Net losses in fiscal 2005 resulted primarily from impairment charges on equity investments in our publicly traded and privately held investment 48 portfolios. Partially offsetting these losses were gains attributable to the sale of investments. Net gains in fiscal 2004 were attributable mainly to the realization of a contingent gain associated with a prior period divestiture and realized gains from the sale of investments in excess of impairment charges. Dispute Settlement In fiscal 2005, we recorded a net total of $106 million in dispute settlement charges. We reached a legal settlement of $141 million in our patent infringement case with Intergraph Hardware Technologies Company ("Intergraph") and recorded a charge of $116 million related to a cross license agreement with Intergraph for products shipped in prior years. Partially offsetting this amount was a $10 million recovery from an individual related to a prior period settlement with the Government of Canada. During fiscal 2004, we recorded $70 million in settlement costs from a dispute with the Government of Canada. For other settlement matters, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Provision for Taxes Our effective tax rate was 13.8%, 32.3% and 16.7% in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The decrease in the overall tax rate in fiscal 2006 from fiscal 2005 was related in part to other income tax adjustments of $599 million in fiscal 2006. This included net favorable tax adjustments of $565 million to income tax accruals as a result of the settlement of IRS examinations of our U.S. income tax returns for fiscal years 1993 to 1998. The reductions to the net income tax accruals for these years related primarily to the resolution of issues with respect to Puerto Rico manufacturing tax incentives and export tax incentives, and other issues involving our non U.S. operations. In addition, the decrease in the overall tax rate in 2006 from fiscal 2005 was attributable in part to $697 million of income tax expense related to items unique to fiscal 2005. The tax expense was the result primarily of $792 million associated with the repatriation of $14.5 billion under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("Jobs Act") and $76 million related to additional distributions received from foreign subsidiaries. These tax expenses were offset in part by tax benefits of $177 million resulting from agreements with the IRS and other governmental authorities. The increase in the overall tax rate in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004 was related primarily to tax expense associated with the repatriation of $14.5 billion under the provisions of the Jobs Act which was partially offset by the increase in the tax benefit derived from lower rates in other jurisdictions. The Jobs Act, enacted on October 22, 2004, provided for a temporary 85% dividend received deduction on certain foreign earnings repatriated during a one year period. The deduction resulted in an approximate 5.25% federal tax rate on the repatriated earnings. In fiscal 2004, our tax rate benefited from net favorable adjustments to previously estimated tax liabilities of $207 million, which decreased the provision for taxes. The most significant favorable adjustments related to the resolution of a California state income tax audit, a net favorable revision to estimated tax accruals upon filing the 2003 U.S. income tax return and a reduction in taxes on foreign earnings due to a change in regulatory policy. These favorable adjustments were offset in part by the net effect of smaller adjustments to income tax liabilities in various jurisdictions. For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% and further explanation of our provision for taxes, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. 49 Segment Information A description of the products and services, as well as financial data, for each segment can be found in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. We have restated segment financial data for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2005 and 2004 to reflect changes in HPs organizational structure that occurred at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2006. We describe these changes more fully in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. We have presented the business segments in this Form 10 K based on our management organizational structure as of October 31, 2006 and the distinct nature of various businesses. Future changes to this organizational structure may result in changes to the reportable segments disclosed. The discussions below include the results of each of our segments. Technology Solutions Group ESS, HPS and Software are structured beneath a broader Technology Solutions Group ("TSG"). We describe the results of the business segments of TSG in more detail below. Enterprise Storage and Servers For the fiscal years ended October 31 2006 2005 2004 In millions Net revenue $ 17,308 $ 16,717 $ 15,084 Earnings from operations $ 1,446 $ 800 $ 157 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 8.4 % 4.8 % 1.0 % The components of weighted average net revenue growth, by business unit were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2006 2005 Percentage points Industry standard servers 3.6 9.3 Storage 0.9 1.2 Business critical systems (1.0 ) 0.3 Total ESS 3.5 10.8 ESS net revenue increased 4% in fiscal 2006 from fiscal 2005. On a constant currency basis, ESS net revenue increased 5% in fiscal 2006 from fiscal 2005. The unfavorable currency impact for fiscal 2006 was due primarily to the movement of the dollar against the euro and the yen. The net revenue growth in industry standard servers of 6% in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 was driven by strong unit growth and the growth in Blade revenue as well as increased option attach rates in the ProLiant server line. Storage net revenue increased 4% in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 due to continued strong performance in mid range EVA products within the storage area networks offerings while the tape business decline moderated the overall storage growth. 50 Business critical systems net revenue decreased 4% in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005. This decrease was due primarily to revenue declines in the PA RISC product line and to the planned phase out of our Alpha Server product line. The declines were partially offset by net revenue growth in our Integrity servers which posted strong net revenue growth, reaching 37% of the business critical systems revenue mix in fiscal 2006 up from 20% in the prior fiscal year. Revenue mix from Integrity servers will continue to grow as customers migrated from PA RISC and Alpha products. Integrity server revenue in fiscal 2006 also included revenue from Montecito based Integrity servers which were first shipped in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. NonStop server net revenue decreased 2% in fiscal 2006 from the prior year due primarily to the revenue decrease on the discontinued product line, which was partially offset by NonStop Integrity product revenue growth. In fiscal 2006, ESS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 3.6 percentage points compared to fiscal 2005, due primarily to an increase in gross margin combined with a decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The improvement in gross margin was due primarily to a favorable unit mix, improved discount management, and lower component costs. The increase was partially offset by a continued mix shift towards industry standard servers within the segment and the ongoing mix shift to lower margin Integrity products within business critical systems. The decrease in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue in fiscal 2006 resulted primarily from increased revenue and decreased operating expenses in fiscal 2006. The decreased operating expenses reflected the benefits of our expense controls, which were partially offset by higher bonus accruals in fiscal 2006. ESS net revenue increased 11% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. On a constant currency basis, ESS net revenue increased 9% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro and the yen for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 and to a lesser extent in the fourth fiscal quarter as the dollar strengthened against the euro and the yen during that period. In fiscal 2005, ESS net revenue growth was due primarily to volume increases and improved average selling prices ASPs in industry standard servers, as a result of both unit growth and increased option attach rates in the ProLiant server line. The fiscal 2005 net revenue growth rate in industry standard servers benefited from certain internal execution problems that unfavorably impacted the business in the second half of fiscal 2004. Storage net revenue increased 5% in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 due to new product introductions that contributed to the strong performance of mid range EVA products and improved storage sales specialist coverage. In fiscal 2005, storage area networks ("SANs") net revenue improved while revenue growth in the tape and supplies businesses remained flat. Fiscal 2005 storage net revenue growth rates, in comparison with growth rates in the prior year, benefited from the business challenges that unfavorably impacted the storage business in the second half of the prior year. Business critical systems net revenue increased 1% in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. Integrity server net revenue growth for the period was offset partially by revenue decline in the RISC product line and the planned revenue decline in the Alpha Server product line. The Integrity server product line posted net revenue growth for the year, representing 20% of the total business critical systems revenue mix, up from 11% in the prior year. In fiscal 2005, HP UX server net revenue increased 5% from the prior year, and NonStop server net revenue declined due to a mature installed base. In fiscal 2005, ESS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 3.8 percentage points compared to fiscal 2004, due primarily to a combination of a decrease in 51 operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue and an increase in gross margin. We recorded $57 million of workforce reduction costs in the first two quarters of fiscal 2005. Our reduced operating expenses reflected the benefits of these measures as well as management controls on expense spending, which offset the impact of the higher employee bonus accruals recorded in the second half of the year. The improvement in margin was due primarily to higher option attach rates and improved discount management, which were offset partially by the continued mix shift towards industry standard servers within the segment as well as the ongoing mix shift to lower margin products within the business critical systems business as Integrity products assumed a greater percentage of business critical systems net revenue. In addition, the year over year industry standard servers and storage gross margins comparisons were favorably impacted by execution issues and business challenges that unfavorably affected the performance of industry standard servers and storage in the second half of fiscal 2004. HP Services For the fiscal years ended October 31 2006 2005 2004 In millions Net revenue $ 15,617 $ 15,536 $ 13,848 Earnings from operations $ 1,507 $ 1,151 $ 1,282 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 9.6 % 7.4 % 9.3 % The components of weighted average net revenue growth, by business unit, were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2006 2005 Percentage points Technology services (1.0 ) 5.6 Managed services 1.2 4.2 Consulting and integration 0.3 2.3 Other 0.1 Total HPS 0.5 12.2 HPS net revenue increased 1% in fiscal 2006 from fiscal 2005. On a constant currency basis, HPS net revenue increased 2% in fiscal 2006 from fiscal 2005. In fiscal year 2006, the unfavorable currency impact was due primarily to the movement of the dollar against the euro and the yen. Net revenue in technology services decreased 2% in fiscal 2006 from the prior year due primarily to declines related to competitive pricing pressures and changes in the mix of platforms being serviced. This decline was moderated by growth in our IT solutions business such as integrated support services. 52  In fiscal 2006, the 6% growth in managed services net revenue from the prior year was driven mainly by new business and existing account growth, with continued focus on making more strategic portfolio decisions to improve profitability. Net revenue in consulting and integration increased 2% in fiscal 2006 from the prior year due primarily to improved performance in Asia Pacific and Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"). HPS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue in fiscal 2006 increased by 2.2 percentage points. The operating margin increase was the result of a combination of an increase in gross margin and a decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The gross margin increase in HPS was due primarily to the continued focus on cost structure improvement from delivery efficiencies and cost controls, which were partially offset by the continued competitive environment in solutions and services business and higher fiscal 2006 bonus accruals. In fiscal year 2006, improved efficiencies in our operating expense structure contributed to the decline in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue compared to fiscal year 2005 despite the impact of higher bonus accruals in fiscal 2006. Technology services operating margin in fiscal 2006 continued to benefit from improved delivery efficiencies and cost controls as well as portfolio decisions made to improve profitability, all of which were offset in part by the impact of the ongoing portfolio mix shift from higher margin proprietary support to lower margin areas such as multi vendor integrated support and solution services. Managed services operating margin increased in fiscal 2006 due to delivery efficiencies, reduced operating expenses and more strategic portfolio decisions made to improve profitability. Consulting and integration operating margin improved in fiscal 2006 due to more efficient utilization of our consultants and reduced operating expenses. HPS net revenue increased 12% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. On a constant currency basis, HPS net revenue increased 9% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro and the yen for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 and to a lesser extent in the fourth fiscal quarter as the dollar strengthened against the euro and the yen during that period. Excluding acquisitions made since the first quarter of fiscal 2004, HPS net revenue growth for fiscal 2005 was 8%. Net revenue in technology services increased 9% in fiscal 2005. Excluding acquisitions made since the first quarter of fiscal 2004, technology services net revenue growth for fiscal 2005 was 4%. In fiscal 2005, managed services net revenue increased 24% from the prior year as a result of an increase in new contracts, as well as additional revenue from our installed base of large customer contracts, the full year contribution of the Triaton acquisition (which we completed in April 2004) and favorable currency impacts. Excluding Triaton, managed services net revenue growth was 22% for fiscal 2005 compared to the prior fiscal year. Net revenue in consulting and integration increased 13% in fiscal 2005 from the prior year due to strong order growth in EMEA and Asia Pacific, as well as the favorable impact of currency. Additionally, the Triaton acquisition added to the revenue growth. HPS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue in fiscal 2005 declined 1.9 percentage points. The operating margin decline was the result of the combination of a decline in gross margin offset partially by a decrease in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue. The gross margin decline in HPS reflected primarily competitive pricing pressures and portfolio mix shifts within technology services, as well as the cost of higher employee bonuses recorded in the second half of the fiscal year, and the absorption of workforce reduction costs in the first half of the year that amounted to $89 million. The technology services portfolio continues to evolve from higher margin 53 proprietary support to lower margin areas such as multi vendor integrated support and network environmental services. Managed services gross margin increased due to improvements in delivery cost management across the installed base. Consulting and integration gross margin improved due to higher revenues and continued operational improvement in presales and delivery cost management. In fiscal 2005, reductions and efficiencies in our operating expense structure contributed to the decline in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue, despite $11 million in workforce reduction costs in the first half of the fiscal year and the impact of the employee bonuses granted in the second half of the fiscal year. Software For the fiscal years ended October 31 2006 2005 2004 In millions Net revenue $ 1,301 $ 1,061 $ 923 Earnings (loss) from operations $ 85 $ (49 ) $ (152 ) Earnings (loss) from operations as a % of net revenue 6.5 % (4.6 )% (16.5 )% In fiscal 2006, Software net revenue increased 23% (8% excluding the impact of acquisitions and 24% on a constant currency basis) from fiscal 2005. The unfavorable currency impact was due primarily to the movement of the dollar against the euro and the yen for fiscal 2006. Peregrine, which was acquired in December 2005, represented 14.7 percentage points of Softwares net revenue growth for fiscal 2006. Net revenue associated with the Peregrine acquisition is included in the results of OpenView, our management solutions software product line, which represented 20 percentage points of growth on a weighted average net revenue basis for fiscal 2006. OpenCall, our telecommunications solutions product line, contributed the remaining 3 percentage points of the weighted average net revenue increase for fiscal 2006. OpenView net revenue growth was the result of acquisitions and increases in support and services contracts. OpenCall net revenue growth was the result of increased product sales and licenses as well as larger contracts. The operating margin improvement for fiscal 2006 of 11.1 percentage points as compared to fiscal 2005 was the result primarily of a decrease in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue and an increase in gross margin. The decrease in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue was attributable to growth in field selling costs, research and development and marketing expenses attributable to cost management efforts that was slower than revenue growth. These cost reductions were partially offset by high integration costs associated with the acquisition of Peregrine as well as higher bonus accruals. The improvement in gross margin was driven by an increase in revenue, more effective management of the support and services costs for OpenView and OpenCall and from improved margins of our OpenCall product line resulting from a favorable product mix shift towards higher margin products. In fiscal 2005, Software net revenue increased 15% (12% without acquisitions) from fiscal 2004 and 13% on a constant currency basis. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro and the yen for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 and to a lesser extent in the fourth fiscal quarter as the dollar strengthened against the euro and the yen during that period. OpenView represented 12 percentage points of net revenue growth on a weighted average basis for fiscal 2005. OpenCall represented 3 percentage points of growth on a weighted average net revenue basis for fiscal 2005. OpenView net revenue growth was the result of increases in larger 54 contracts and license fees and, to a lesser extent, acquisitions. OpenCall net revenue growth was the result of an increase in licenses. The operating margin improvement of 11.9 percentage points for fiscal 2005, as compared to fiscal 2004, was the result primarily of an increase in gross margin and a decrease in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue. The gross margin improvement was due to higher margin rates in our core businesses and a favorable product mix due to more OpenView license revenue. The decrease in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue was due to slower growth in operating expense attributable to cost management efforts, related principally to decreased research and development costs and slower growth in marketing costs as a percentage of revenue, despite the employee bonus recorded during the second half of fiscal 2005 and acquisition integration costs. Personal Systems Group For the fiscal years ended October 31 2006 2005 2004 In millions Net revenue $ 29,166 $ 26,741 $ 24,622 Earnings from operations $ 1,152 $ 657 $ 205 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 3.9 % 2.5 % 0.8 % The components of weighted average net revenue growth, by business unit, were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2006 2005 Percentage points Notebook PCs 8.4 5.4 Desktop PCs 0.8 1.5 Workstations 0.6 0.8 Handhelds (0.8 ) (0.2 ) Other 0.1 1.1 Total PSG 9.1 8.6 PSG net revenue increased 9% in fiscal 2006 from fiscal 2005. On a constant currency basis, PSGs net revenue increased 10% in fiscal 2006. The unfavorable currency impact was due primarily to the movement of the dollar against the euro and the yen. In fiscal 2006, net revenue increased across all regions and each business unit with the exception of handhelds, due primarily to an overall volume increase of 15%. The volume increase in fiscal 2006 was the result of strong growth in the consumer and commercial markets, with significant improvement in emerging markets. Net revenue for notebook PCs increased 23% while net revenue for desktop PCs increased slightly in fiscal 2006 from the prior year. Net revenue for consumer clients and commercial clients increased 19% and 4%, respectively, from the prior year. The revenue increases in consumer and commercial clients were partially offset by a decrease in handhelds revenue due to a decline in the Personal Digital Assistant ("PDA") product market coupled with our product transition to converged devices. The PSG volume increase in fiscal 2006 was moderated by a decline of 6% in consumer client ASPs and 7% in commercial client ASPs. The ASP declines were due to pricing decisions resulting 55 from lower component costs as well as competitive pricing pressures, which were partially offset by a strong monitor attach rate in commercial desktops PCs. PSG earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 1.4 percentage points in fiscal 2006 from fiscal 2005 as a result of gross margin improvement and a decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. The gross margin improvement was due primarily to reduced supply chain costs and warranty expense as a percentage of net revenue, combined with component cost declines. The operating expense decline as a percentage of net revenue was the result primarily of the increased net revenue and continued efforts on improving cost structure through efficiency measures. The operating expenses decreased slightly in fiscal 2006 due primarily to savings from our expense controls, which were partially offset by higher bonus accruals in fiscal 2006. PSG net revenue increased 9% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. On a constant currency basis, PSGs net revenue increased 7% in fiscal 2005. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro and the yen for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 and to a lesser extent in the fourth fiscal quarter as the dollar strengthened against the euro and the yen during that period. In fiscal 2005, net revenue increased across all regions as a result of a 13% volume increase, particularly in consumer and commercial clients. Double digit unit growth in Asia Pacific and EMEA drove the revenue increase. In fiscal 2005, net revenue increases in notebook and desktop PCs were 16% and 3%, respectively, while consumer clients and commercial clients increased 10% and 7%, respectively, from the prior year. The revenue increases in consumer and commercial clients were offset partially by a decline in handhelds revenue. The performance of digital entertainment products, such as the Apple iPod from HP, added to the growth in net revenue for the fiscal year. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we discontinued reselling the Apple iPod. The PSG volume increase was moderated by a decline of 4% in ASPs, with consumer clients and commercial clients declining 8% and 5%, respectively, in fiscal 2005. The declines in notebook and desktop ASPs were offset slightly by the digital entertainment mix and an increase in handheld ASPs. The decline in ASPs was due mainly to changes in the notebook product line up that leveraged declines in component costs and competitive pressures in consumer PCs. PSG earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 1.7 percentage points in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. The increase was the result of gross margin improvement combined with flat operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. The gross margin improvement was due primarily to component cost declines, a product mix shift toward higher margin notebook PCs, reduced warranty costs and favorable currency impacts. Operating expense as a percentage of revenue was flat, as the impact of the employee bonuses recorded in the second half of the year was offset by continued cost control measures. Imaging and Printing Group For the fiscal years ended October 31 2006 2005 2004 In millions Net revenue $ 26,786 $ 25,155 $ 24,199 Earnings from operations $ 3,978 $ 3,413 $ 3,843 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 14.9 % 13.6 % 15.9 % 56 The components of weighted average net revenue growth, by business unit were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2006 2005 Percentage points Supplies 5.4 3.3 Commercial hardware 1.4 1.6 Consumer hardware (0.3 ) (0.8 ) Other (0.1 ) Total IPG 6.5 4.0 IPG net revenue increased 6% in fiscal 2006 from fiscal 2005. On a constant currency basis, the net revenue increase was 7% in fiscal 2006. The unfavorable currency impact was due primarily to the movement of the dollar against the euro and the yen for fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2006, the growth in printer supplies net revenue reflected higher unit volumes as a result of the continued expansion of printer hardware placements and the strong performance of color related products. The growth in commercial hardware net revenue in fiscal 2006 was attributable mainly to unit volume growth in color laser printers and multifunction printers and, to a lesser extent, revenue from our large format printing products with the acquisition of Scitex on November 1, 2005. Both commercial and consumer hardware were impacted by the continued shift in demand to lower priced products and strategic pricing decisions which caused average revenue per unit to decline. In fiscal 2006, IPG earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 1.3 percentage points as compared to fiscal 2005, which was the result primarily of an increase in gross margin and a decrease in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue. The gross margin increase was due primarily to improved margins for supplies due to product mix and a favorable portfolio mix shift from hardware to supplies, which was partially offset by unfavorable consumer hardware margins. Operating expense as a percentage of net revenue for fiscal 2006 declined, due mainly to realized savings from our cost structure initiatives coupled with increased revenue and partially offset by higher bonus accruals. IPG net revenue increased 4% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. On a constant currency basis, the net revenue increase was 2% in fiscal 2005. The favorable currency impact was due primarily to the weakening of the dollar against the euro and the yen for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 and to a lesser extent in the fourth fiscal quarter as the dollar strengthened against the euro and the yen during that period. In fiscal 2005, the growth in supplies net revenue was attributable primarily to unit growth in LaserJet toner, due primarily to increased sales of color related products. The growth in commercial hardware net revenue in fiscal 2005 was attributable to unit volume growth in color LaserJet printers, multifunction printers and the digital press business. New product introductions added to the net revenue growth in multifunction printers. The effect of the commercial hardware volume increase was offset partially by decreasing ASPs. In fiscal 2005, consumer hardware net revenue decreased. This decline was the result of continuing decreases in ASPs due to strategic pricing actions, the continued mix shift in demand to lower priced products, intense competition in both the all in one and single function inkjet printers and the ongoing decline in the scanner market. 57 In fiscal 2005, IPG earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue declined by 2.3 percentage points due primarily to a decline in gross margin as a percentage of net revenue which was offset partially by a decline in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The gross margin decline was attributable to a mix shift within supplies from inkjet cartridges to LaserJet toner, a low end mix shift in consumer hardware, voluntary severance incentive charges and strategic pricing actions. Operating expense, as a percentage of net revenue, remained relatively flat year over year, with a slight increase in spending due to voluntary severance incentive charges taken in the first half of the fiscal year and the second half of the year employee bonus expense offsetting the favorable impact of headcount reductions and lower program spending in research and development. HP Financial Services For the fiscal years ended October 31 2006 2005 2004 In millions Net revenue $ 2,078 $ 2,102 $ 1,895 Earnings from operations $ 147 $ 213 $ 125 Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 7.1 % 10.1 % 6.6 % HPFS net revenue decreased by 1% in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005. The net revenue decrease was due primarily to lower used equipment sales and other end of lease revenue, which were largely offset by a higher mix of leases classified as operating leases. In fiscal 2006, the 3.0 percentage point decrease in earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue consisted of a decrease in gross margin, which was partially offset by a decrease in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue. The gross margin decline was due primarily to competitor pricing pressures, a higher mix of lower margin operating lease assets and lower recoveries for bad debts, which were partially offset by lower credit losses. The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was the result of cost savings achieved through continued cost controls. HPFS net revenue increased 11% in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. The net revenue increase was the result primarily of higher used equipment sales and a higher mix of leases classified as operating leases. In fiscal 2005, the 3.5 percentage point increase in earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue consisted of an increase in gross margin, which was partially offset by an increase in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue. The gross margin increase resulted primarily from lower bad debt expense, which was partially offset by a higher mix of lower margin operating lease assets. The decrease in bad debt expense was due in part to the release in fiscal 2005 of $40 million of reserves related to aged receivables in EMEA that have since been collected. The reserves were established in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Recoveries from accounts in Latin America previously written off, lower credit losses and a reduction of reserves resulting from a stronger portfolio risk profile also contributed to the decrease in bad debt expense. The slight increase in operating expense as a percentage of net revenue in fiscal 2005 was the result mainly of a $62 million net reduction in revenue resulting from the reclassification of certain leases from operating leases to capital leases. This reclassification was the result of a review of the leasing portfolio for appropriate lease classification. 58 Financing Originations For the fiscal years ended October 31 2006 2005 2004 In millions Total financing originations $ 3,994 $ 4,136 $ 3,852 New financing originations, which represent the amounts of financing provided to customers for equipment and related software and services, and include intercompany activity, decreased 3% in fiscal 2006 from fiscal 2005. The decrease reflects lower financing associated with HP product sales. Financing originations increased 7% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004 due to higher financing of HP product sales and a favorable currency impact. Portfolio Assets and Ratios HPFS maintains a strategy to generate a competitive return on equity by effectively leveraging its portfolio against the risks associated with interest rates and credit. The HPFS business model is asset intensive and uses certain internal metrics to measure its performance against other financial services companies, including a segment balance sheet that is derived from our internal management reporting system. The accounting policies used to derive these amounts are substantially the same as those used by the consolidated company. However, certain intercompany loans and accounts that are reflected in the segment balances are eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The portfolio assets and ratios derived from the segment balance sheet for HPFS were as follows for the following fiscal years ended October 31: 2006 2005 In millions Portfolio assets(1) $ 7,345 $ 7,085 Allowance for doubtful accounts 80 111 Operating lease equipment reserve 42 45 Total reserves 122 156 Net portfolio assets $ 7,223 $ 6,929 Reserve coverage 1.7 % 2.2 % Debt to equity ratio(2) 6.0 x 5.5 x (1)Portfolio assets include financing receivables of approximately $4.9 billion at October 31, 2006 and $5.0 billion at October 31, 2005 and net equipment under operating leases of $1.5 billion at October 31, 2006 and $1.3 billion at October 31, 2005, as disclosed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Portfolio assets also include capitalized profit on intercompany equipment transactions of approximately $400 million at both October 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005, and intercompany leases of approximately $500 million at October 31, 2006 and $400 million at October 31, 2005, both of which are eliminated in consolidation. (2)HPFS debt consists of intercompany equity that is treated as debt for segment reporting purposes, intercompany debt and debt issued directly by HPFS. 59 Portfolio assets at October 31, 2006 increased 4% from October 31, 2005. The increase resulted from a favorable currency impact and a high level of financing originations in the fourth quarter. The overall percentage of portfolio assets reserved decreased due primarily to the write off of assets covered by specific reserves and lower reserves resulting from a stronger portfolio risk profile. HPFS funds its operations mainly through a combination of intercompany debt and equity. The increase in the debt to equity ratio reflects a planned increase in portfolio leverage. Corporate Investments For the fiscal years ended October 31 2006 2005 2004 In millions Net revenue $ 566 $ 523 $ 449 Loss from operations $ (151 ) $ (174 ) $ (179 ) Loss from operations as a % of net revenue (26.7 )% (33.3 )% (39.9 )% In fiscal 2006, the majority of the net revenue in Corporate Investments related to network infrastructure products, which grew 8% as a result of continued increased sales of gigabit Ethernet switch products. Corporate Investments loss from operations in fiscal 2006 decreased compared to fiscal 2005 due primarily to lower operating expenses related to global alliances and HP Labs and higher gross profits from network infrastructure products. The decrease in operating expenses was due primarily to savings resulting from restructuring actions and lower program spending. Expenses related to global alliances and HP Labs contributed to the majority of the loss from operations. Such loss was offset in part by operating profit from network infrastructure product sales. In fiscal 2005, the majority of the net revenue in Corporate Investments related to network infrastructure products, which increased 20% from fiscal 2004 as a result of continued product enhancements, particularly in gigabit Ethernet switch products. Expenses related to corporate development, global alliances and HP Labs increased 5% in fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2004. The increase was due to higher spending on strategic initiatives and incubation programs. These expenses, which contributed to the majority of the loss from operations for Corporate Investments, were offset in part by operating profit from network infrastructure product sales. Corporate Investments loss from operations for fiscal 2005 decreased slightly from the prior fiscal year due to an increase in operating profit in network infrastructure products as a result of increasing operating margins, offset partially by an increase in operating expenses related to corporate development, global alliances and HP Labs. The increase in gross margin was due primarily to a favorable product mix and lower trade discounts as a percentage of net revenue for network infrastructure products. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside of the United States. Most of the amounts held outside of the United States could be repatriated to the United States but, under current law, would be subject to United States federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. Repatriation of some foreign balances is restricted by local laws. HP has provided for the United States federal tax liability on these amounts for 60 financial statement purposes except for foreign earnings that are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States. Repatriation could result in additional United States federal income tax payments in future years. Where local restrictions prevent an efficient intercompany transfer of funds, our intent is that cash balances would remain outside of the United States and we would meet United States liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. FINANCIAL CONDITION (Sources and Uses of Cash) Our total cash and cash equivalents increased approximately 18% to $16.4 billion at October 31, 2006 from $13.9 billion at the end of fiscal 2005. Net earnings in fiscal 2006 helped generate $11.4 billion in cash from operating activities. The cash generated by operations in fiscal 2006 funded all of the $8.9 billion in investing and financing activities. Year over year outstanding debt was flat at $5.2 billion at October 31, 2006. The net $8.9 billion used for investing and financing activities during fiscal 2006 included $6.1 billion for share repurchases, $2.0 billion for net investments in property, plant and equipment, $1.7 billion for prepayment for common stock to be repurchased in future periods, $0.9 billion for cash dividends and $0.9 billion for cash payments on acquisitions. Cash flows from financing activities benefited from $2.5 billion of proceeds relating to employee stock plans. Our cash position remains strong and our cash balances are sufficient to cover significant cash outlays expected in fiscal 2007 associated with our acquisitions, restructuring actions and company bonus payments. For the fiscal years ended October 31 2006 2005 2004 In millions Net cash provided by operating activities $ 11,353 $ 8,028 $ 5,088 Net cash used in investing activities (2,787 ) (1,757 ) (2,454 ) Net cash used in financing activities (6,077 ) (5,023 ) (4,159 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 2,489 $ 1,248 $ (1,525 ) Key Performance Metrics October 31 2006 2005 2004 Days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable 40 39 43 Days of supply in inventory 38 35 39 Days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable (59 ) (52 ) (51 ) Cash conversion cycle 19 22 31 Days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable ("DSO") measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. DSO is calculated by dividing accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90 day average net revenue. Days of supply in inventory ("DOS") measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. DOS is calculated by dividing inventory by a 90 day average cost of goods sold. 61  Days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable ("DPO") measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. DPO is calculated by dividing accounts payable by a 90 day average cost of goods sold. Our working capital requirements depend upon our effective management of the cash conversion cycle, which represents effectively the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials to the collection of cash from our customers. The cash conversion cycle is the sum of DSO and DOS less DPO. 2006 Compared to 2005 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $3.3 billion during fiscal 2006. The increase in our cash flow from operations was due primarily to higher earnings and lower payments for pension and taxes, which were partially offset by higher payments for restructuring costs. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased by $1.0 billion during fiscal 2006 due primarily to higher capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment, lower net proceeds from maturities and sales of investments and higher cash paid for acquisitions. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased by $1.1 billion during fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. The increase was due primarily to a $2.5 billion increase in repurchases of common stock and a $1.7 billion prepayment for common stock to be repurchased in future periods. These expenditures were partially offset by a $1.6 billion net increase to financing activities resulting from higher borrowings and lower debt payments and $1.4 billion increased proceeds from the issuance of common stock related to our employee stock plans mainly due to increased exercises of employee stock options as a result of higher market prices for our common stock during fiscal 2006. We repurchase shares of our common stock under an ongoing program to manage the dilution created by shares issued under employee benefit plans as well as to repurchase shares opportunistically. This program authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions. In fiscal 2006, we completed share repurchases of approximately 188 million shares. Approximately 190 million shares were settled for $6.1 billion, which included 2 million shares repurchased in transactions that were executed in fiscal 2005 but settled in fiscal 2006, as compared to approximately 150 million shares repurchased, of which 148 million shares were settled for $3.5 billion in fiscal 2005. In addition to the shares we repurchased, we received approximately 34 million shares for an aggregate price of $1.1 billion under a prepaid variable share purchase program ("PVSPP") entered into with a third party investment bank during the first quarter of 2006. Under the PVSPP, we prepaid $1.7 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 in exchange for the right to receive a variable number of shares of our common stock weekly over a one year period beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and ending during the second quarter of fiscal 2007. We recorded the payment as a prepaid stock repurchase in the stockholders equity section of our Consolidated Balance Sheet and included the payment in the cash flows from financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. In connection with this program, the investment bank has purchased and will continue to trade shares of 62 our common stock in the open market over time. The prepaid funds will be expended ratably over the term of the program. Under the PVSPP, the prices at which we purchase the shares are subject to a minimum and maximum price that was determined in advance of any repurchases being completed under the program, thereby effectively hedging our repurchase price. The minimum and maximum number of shares we could receive under the program is 52 million shares and 70 million shares, respectively. The exact number of shares to be repurchased is based upon the volume weighted average market price of our shares during each weekly settlement period, subject to the minimum and maximum price as well as regulatory limitations on the number of shares we are permitted to repurchase. We decrease our shares outstanding each settlement period as shares are physically received. We will retire all shares repurchased under the PVSPP, and we will no longer deem those shares outstanding. We intend to continue to repurchase shares as a means to manage dilution from the issuance of shares under employee benefit plans and to purchase shares opportunistically. During fiscal 2006, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $10.0 billion for future repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock. As of October 31, 2006, we had remaining authorization of approximately $5.6 billion for future share repurchases. Previously authorized share repurchases of approximately $600 million also will be made under the PVSPP until the remaining available balance is exhausted in the second quarter of fiscal 2007. 2005 Compared to 2004 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased by 58% during fiscal 2005. Our cash position benefited primarily from our improved cash conversion cycle, which decreased 9 days compared to fiscal 2004 due primarily to improved effectiveness in accounts receivable collection efforts and improved inventory management. Our cash flow from operations also benefited from delayed payments for restructuring costs and company bonuses. These benefits were offset partially by higher pension contributions. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased by 28% during fiscal 2005 due primarily to lower cash paid for acquisitions and reduced expenditures for property, plant and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased by 21% during fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004. The increase was due primarily to the maturity of our debt and increased repurchases of our common stock. These cash payments were offset partially by increased proceeds from the issuance of common stock related to our employee stock plans. We repaid $1.8 billion of debt during fiscal 2005 compared to $0.3 billion during fiscal 2004 primarily due to the maturity of the $1.5 billion U.S. Dollar Global Notes and the $0.3 billion Medium Term Notes assumed from the Compaq acquisition. Also, proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee plans were $1.2 billion in fiscal 2005 compared to $0.6 billion in fiscal 2004, mainly because higher overall market prices during fiscal 2005 led to increased exercises of employee stock options. 63 We repurchase shares of our common stock under an ongoing program to manage the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans as well as to repurchase shares opportunistically. This program authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions. We completed share repurchases of approximately 150 million shares, of which 148 million shares were settled for $3.5 billion in fiscal 2005, as compared to repurchases and settlements of approximately 172 million shares for $3.3 billion in fiscal 2004. In addition, in November 2004, we paid $51 million in connection with the completion of the fiscal 2004 accelerated share repurchase program. We intend to continue to repurchase shares as a means to manage dilution from the issuance of shares under employee benefit plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically. During fiscal 2005, the Board of Directors of HP authorized an additional $4.0 billion for future repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock. As of October 31, 2005, we had remaining authorization of approximately $3.4 billion for future share repurchases. LIQUIDITY As previously discussed, we use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity, since we believe that internally generated cash flows are sufficient to support business operations, capital expenditures and the payment of stockholder dividends, in addition to a level of discretionary investments and share repurchases. We are able to supplement this near term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and credit line facilities made available by various foreign and domestic financial institutions. We maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities and the overall cost of capital. Outstanding debt remained at $5.2 billion as of October 31, 2006 as compared to October 31, 2005, bearing weighted average interest rates of 5.1% and 4.7%, respectively. Short term borrowings increased to $2.7 billion at October 31, 2006 from $1.8 billion at October 31, 2005. The increase was due primarily to the reclassification from long term to short term of $2.0 billion of U.S. Dollar Global Notes, of which $1.0 billion matured in December 2006 and $1.0 billion will mature in July 2007. This increase was offset partially by the repayment of $200 million Series A Medium Term Notes in December 2005 and 750 million Euro Medium Term Notes in July 2006, as well as a decrease of $18 million in commercial paper. During fiscal 2006, we both issued and repaid approximately $5.4 billion of commercial paper. As of October 31, 2006, we had $16.4 million in total borrowings collateralized by certain financing receivable assets. HP, and not the HPFS financing business, issued the vast majority of our total outstanding debt. Like other financial services companies, HPFS has a business model that is asset intensive in nature and therefore is more debt dependent than our other business segments. At October 31, 2006, HPFS had approximately $7.2 billion in net portfolio assets, which included short and long term financing receivables and operating lease assets. We have revolving trade receivables based facilities permitting us to sell certain trade receivables to third parties on a non recourse basis. The aggregate maximum capacity under these programs was approximately $477 million as of October 31, 2006 and there was approximately $150 million available under these programs. In fiscal 2006, we had another facility that was subject to a maximum amount of 525 million euros (the "Euro Program"), which was terminated on October 31, 2006. We sold approximately $8.6 billion of trade receivables during fiscal 2006, including approximately $5.9 billion 64 under the Euro Program. Fees associated with these facilities do not generally differ materially from the cash discounts offered to these customers under the previous alternative prompt payment programs. We have the following short term or long term financings available, if we need additional liquidity: At October 31, 2006 Original Amount Available Used Available In millions 2002 Shelf Registration Statement Debt, global securities and up to $1,500 of Series B Medium Term Notes $ 3,000 $ 2,000 $ 1,000 Euro Medium Term Notes 3,000 3,000 Lines of credit 2,186 41 2,145 Commercial paper programs U.S. 6,000 6,000 Euro 500 190 310 $ 14,686 $ 2,231 $ 12,455 In May 2006, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") to enable us to offer and sell from time to time, in one or more offerings, debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants. On May 23, 2006, we issued $1.0 billion in Floating Rate Global Notes under this registration statement. We used a portion of the proceeds received to repay our 5.25% Euro Medium Term Notes due July 2006 at maturity. We used the remainder of the net proceeds for general corporate purposes. The securities issuable under the 2002 shelf registration statement include notes with due dates of nine months or more from issuance. The lines of credit are uncommitted and are available primarily through various foreign subsidiaries. In April 2005, we increased our U.S. commercial paper program to $6.0 billion. We have a $3.0 billion U.S. credit facility expiring in December 2010. This credit facility is a senior unsecured committed borrowing arrangement primarily to support our U.S. commercial paper program. Our ability to have a U.S. commercial paper outstanding balance that exceeds the $3.0 billion committed credit facility is subject to a number of factors, including liquidity conditions and business performance. Our credit risk is evaluated by three independent rating agencies based upon publicly available information as well as information obtained in our ongoing discussions with them. Standard & Poors Ratings Services, Moodys Investors Service and Fitch Ratings currently rate our senior unsecured long term debt A , A3 and A and our short term debt A 1, Prime 1, and F1, respectively. We do not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our debt. However, a downgrade in our credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under our credit facilities. Also, a downgrade in our credit rating could limit or, in the case of a significant downgrade, preclude our ability to issue commercial paper under our current programs. If this occurs, we would seek alternative sources of funding, including our credit facility or the issuance of notes under our existing shelf registration statements and our Euro Medium Term Note Programme. On December 15, 2006, we repaid our $1.0 billion Global Notes due December 2006 at maturity. 65 Contractual Obligations The impact that our contractual obligations as of October 31, 2006 are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods was as follows: Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years In millions Long term debt, including capital lease obligations(1) $ 4,787 $ 2,099 $ 1,597 $ 19 $ 1,072 Operating lease obligations 2,065 506 718 395 446 Purchase obligations(2) 2,777 2,052 504 198 23 Total $ 9,629 $ 4,657 $ 2,819 $ 612 $ 1,541 (1)Amounts represent the expected cash payments of our long term debt and do not include any fair value adjustments or discounts. Included in our long term debt are approximately $52 million of capital lease obligations that are secured by certain equipment. (2)Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable without penalty. These purchase obligations are related principally to cost of sales, inventory and other items. Our purchase obligation includes the settlement agreement with EMC Corporation ("EMC") pursuant to which we agreed to pay $325 million (the net amount of the valuation of EMCs claims against us less the valuation of our claims against EMC) to EMC, which we can satisfy through the purchase for resale or internal use of complementary EMC products in equal installments of $65 million over the next five years, of which the first installment was paid on August 29, 2005. As of October 31, 2006, the remaining payment to EMC was $260 million. In addition, if EMC purchases our products during the five year period, we will be required to purchase an equivalent amount of additional products or services from EMC of up to an aggregate of $108 million. In November 2006, we completed our acquisition of Mercury. The aggregate purchase price was approximately $4.8 billion, consisting of cash paid for outstanding stock, the value of vested employee stock options and estimated direct transaction costs. The acquisition will combine Mercurys application management, application delivery and IT governance capabilities with our broad portfolio of management solutions. Funding Commitments During fiscal 2006, we made approximately $270 million and $31 million of contributions to our pension plans and U.S. non qualified plan participants, respectively, and paid $67 million to cover benefit claims for post retirement benefit plans. In fiscal 2007, we expect to contribute approximately $120 million to our pension plans and approximately $15 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non qualified plan participants. We expect to pay approximately $80 million to cover benefit claims for our post retirement benefit plans. Our funding policy is to contribute cash to our pension plans so that we meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government and 66 funding and taxing authorities. We expect to use contributions made to the post retirement plans primarily for the payment of retiree health claims incurred during the fiscal year. We will make a significant cash payment associated with our fiscal 2006 bonus programs. The bonus programs are designed to reward our employees upon achievement of annual performance objectives. Bonuses are calculated based on a formula, with targets that are set at the beginning of each fiscal year. Both the formula and the targets are approved by our Board of Directors. In fiscal 2006, we substantially outperformed against our targets which will result in a bonus payout during the first quarter of fiscal 2007 that will be significantly larger than prior years, resulting in a corresponding reduction in cash flow from operations in that quarter. This bonus was accrued and expensed, as earned, throughout fiscal 2006. Also reducing our cash flow from operation in fiscal 2007 will be significant payments associated with our restructuring plans. As a result of our approved restructuring plans, we expect future cash expenditures of approximately $640 million. The majority of this amount is recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at October 31, 2006. We expect to make cash payments of approximately $549 million in fiscal 2007 and the remaining amount of approximately $91 million over the next five fiscal years. Pending Acquisitions In December 2006, we agreed to acquire Knightsbridge Solutions Holdings Corporation, a privately held services company specializing in the information management areas of business intelligence, data warehousing, data integration and information quality. The transaction is subject to certain closing conditions and is expected to be completed during our first quarter of fiscal 2007. Also in December 2006, we agreed to acquire Bitfone Corporation, a privately held global software and services company that develops software solutions for mobile device management for the wireless industry. The transaction is subject to certain closing conditions and is expected to be completed by February 2007. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities ("SPEs"), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of October 31, 2006, we are not involved in any material unconsolidated SPEs. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements under which we may agree to indemnify the third party to such arrangement from any losses incurred relating to the services they perform on behalf of us or for losses arising from certain events as defined within the particular contract, which may include, for example, litigation or claims relating to past performance. Such indemnification obligations may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, payments we have made related to these indemnifications have been immaterial. 67   ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and equity price risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. Our risk management strategy with respect to these three market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. We use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures of HP. Accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. Our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair values for each of these exposures are outlined below. Actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price movements and our actual exposures and hedges. Foreign currency exchange rate risk We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We transact business in approximately 40 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to our operations for fiscal 2006 were the euro, the Japanese yen and the British pound. For most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currency. Even where we are a net receiver, a weaker U.S. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures taken alone. We use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for U.S. dollar denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. We recognize the gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts in the same period as the remeasurement losses and gains of the related foreign currency denominated exposures. Alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with our foreign currency exposures if such exposure acts as a natural foreign currency hedge for other offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or the currency is difficult or too expensive to hedge. We have performed sensitivity analyses as of October 31, 2006 and 2005, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held constant. The analyses cover all of our foreign currency contracts offset by the underlying exposures. The foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect at October 31, 2006 and 2005. The sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange loss of $104 million at October 31, 2006 and $90 million at October 31, 2005. Interest rate risk We also are exposed to interest rate risk related to our debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. We issue long term debt in either U.S. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. We then typically use interest rate swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve primarily U.S. dollar LIBOR based floating interest expense. The swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating 68 interest payments. However, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed rate debt would be beneficial. In order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. We may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of LIBOR based interest income received on certain variable rate investments. We may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed rate interest returns. We have performed sensitivity analyses as of October 31, 2006 and 2005, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. The analyses cover our debt, investment instruments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. The analyses use actual maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps and approximate maturities for financing receivables. The discount rates we used were based on the market interest rates in effect at October 31, 2006 and 2005. The sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investment instruments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swap positions, of $19 million at October 31, 2006 and $4 million at October 31, 2005. Equity price risk We are also exposed to equity price risk inherent in our portfolio of publicly traded equity securities, which had an estimated fair value of $36 million at October 31, 2006 and $64 million at October 31, 2005. We monitor our equity investments for impairment on a periodic basis. In the event that the carrying value of the equity investment exceeds its fair value, and we determine the decline in value to be other than temporary, we reduce the carrying value to its current fair value. Generally, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these equity securities. However, we may use derivative transactions to hedge certain positions from time to time. We do not purchase our equity securities with the intent to use them for trading or speculative purposes. A hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair values of our marketable equity securities of $11 million at October 31, 2006 and $19 million at October 31, 2005. The aggregate cost of privately held companies and other investments is $362 million at October 31, 2006 and $353 million at October 31, 2005. 69   
 
