FILE:LLY/LLY-8K-20040325080501.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events
On March 25, 2004, Eli Lilly and Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Company has been advised that the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania has commenced a civil investigation relating to the Company's marketing and promotional practices. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 25, 2004
Table of Contents

 
Eli Lilly and Company Lilly Corporate Center Indianapolis, Indiana 46285 U.S.A.
www.lilly.com
March 25, 2004
Date:
Immediately (317) 276-5795  Terra L. Fox
For Release:
Refer to:
The office of the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania has advised Eli Lilly and Company (NYSE: LLY) that it has commenced a civil investigation relating to the company's marketing and promotional practices. Based on the information provided by the U.S. Attorney's office, Lilly believes that the company products likely to be involved include Evista, Prozac and Zyprexa. The company intends to cooperate with the U.S Attorney in this investigation.
The company cannot predict or determine the outcome of this matter. However, as previously stated in Lilly's Form 10-K, in marketing practices investigations such as this, it is possible that an adverse outcome could have a material adverse impact on the company's consolidated financial position, liquidity and results of operations.
Lilly, a leading innovation-driven corporation, is developing a growing portfolio of first-in-class and best-in-class pharmaceutical products by applying the latest research from its own worldwide laboratories and from collaborations with eminent scientific organizations. Headquartered in Indianapolis, Ind., Lilly provides answers  through medicines and information  for some of the world's most urgent medical needs. Additional information about Lilly is available at www.lilly.com.
Evista (raloxifene hydrochloride, Lilly) Prozac (fluoxetine hydrochloride, Dista) Zyprexa (olanzapine, Lilly)


