FILE:LLY/LLY-8K-20060721080048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 21, 2006, we issued a press release announcing our results of operations for the quarter and six month period ended June 30, 2006, including, among other things, an income statement for those periods. In addition, on the same day we are holding a teleconference for analysts and media to discuss those results. The teleconference will be web cast on our web site. The press release and related financial statements are attached to this Form 8-K as
Exhibit 99.
We use non-GAAP financial measures, such as adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share, that differ from financial measures reported in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In the press release attached as Exhibit 99, we used non-GAAP financial measures in comparing the financial results for the second quarter and first six months of 2006 with the same periods of 2005. Those measures include operating income, income before taxes, income taxes, net income, and earnings per share adjusted to exclude the effect of a charge for product liability matters in the second quarter of 2005. That charge is described in more detail in our Form 8-K dated July 21, 2005.
In the press release attached as Exhibit 99, we also provided financial expectations for the third quarter and full year 2006. In addition to providing earnings-per-share expectations on a GAAP basis, we provided non-GAAP earnings-per-share growth comparisons on an adjusted basis. In order to provide a more meaningful earnings-per-share growth comparison between 2005 results and projected 2006 results, we made the following adjustments to 2005 earnings per share:
The items that we exclude are typically highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that could have a substantial impact on our reported operations for a period. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors. Among other things, they may help investors evaluate our ongoing operations. They can assist in making meaningful period-over-period comparisons and in identifying operating trends that would otherwise be masked or distorted by the items subject to the adjustments. Management uses these non-GAAP measures internally to evaluate the performance of the business, including to allocate resources and to evaluate results relative to incentive compensation targets.
Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. For the
Table of Contents
reasons described above for use of non-GAAP measures, our prospective earnings guidance is subject to adjustment for certain future matters, similar to those identified above, as to which prospective quantification generally is not feasible. For example, in our press release we note that our earnings guidance for 2006 does not include the impact of future material, unusual items such as possible charges that could occur if the company proceeds with proposals to close certain European sites.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the press release attached as Exhibit 99 are considered furnished to the Commission and are not deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99
Eli Lilly and Company Lilly Corporate Center Indianapolis, Indiana 46285 U.S.A.
www.lilly.com
 
July 21, 2006
Date:
 
Immediately (317) 276-5795  Terra Fox
For Release:
Refer to:
Eli Lilly and Company (NYSE: LLY) announced financial results for the second quarter of 2006.
Second-Quarter Highlights
 
Pharmaceutical Product Sales Highlights
Significant Events Over the Last Three Months
 
"We are excited about some positive sales trends in the second quarter," said Sidney Taurel, Lilly chairman and chief executive officer. "Notably, our newer products are accounting for a greater portion of our total revenue, representing nearly one-fourth this quarter. The newer product growth was led by acceleration in Cymbalta sales. We are also seeing stabilizing U.S. Zyprexa prescription trends along with continued good international growth. These favorable product-mix trends improved our gross margins, which drove our double-digit EPS growth for the quarter. In addition, our productivity gains allowed us to increase our support of newer products while limiting operating expense growth to the same rate as sales."
Second-Quarter Results
Worldwide sales for the quarter increased 5 percent, to $3.867 billion, driven primarily by the company's newer products, led by accelerating sales of Cymbalta. Worldwide sales volume increased 3 percent, selling prices increased sales 3 percent and exchange rates decreased sales by 1 percent.
 
Gross margins as a percent of sales improved by 1.5 percentage points, to 77.7 percent. This increase was primarily due to favorable product mix and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, partially offset by higher manufacturing-related costs.
Overall, marketing and administrative expenses increased 8 percent, to $1.238 billion. This increase was primarily due to increased marketing expenses in support of newer products. Research and development expenses were $774.8 million, or 20 percent of sales. Compared with the second quarter of 2005, research and development expenses increased 2 percent, primarily due to an increase in discovery research expenses.
The Lilly ICOS joint-venture income was $22.5 million, compared with a loss of $.5 million in the second quarter of 2005. This increase in Lilly ICOS joint-venture income was due to increased Cialis sales and decreased selling and marketing expenses. Net interest income decreased $31.7 million, to $2.6 million, as a result of interest expense increasing more than interest income. The interest expense increase was due to higher interest rates and less capitalized interest due to the completion in late 2005 of certain manufacturing facilities under construction.
Income tax expense was $218.5 million, representing an effective tax rate of 21 percent. Comparisons to prior year are not meaningful due to a net loss before income taxes in the second quarter of 2005.
Lilly reported net income and earnings per share of $822.0 million and $.76, respectively, compared with a second-quarter 2005 net loss and loss per share of $252.0 million and $.23. The prior-year loss was the result of a product liability charge of $1.073 billion (pretax), or $.90 per share (after-tax), which is described in footnote (a) of the "Operating Results  Adjusted" income statement at the end of this release.
Excluding the second-quarter 2005 product liability charge, net income and earnings per share grew 13 percent. The earnings growth was driven primarily by increased sales and decreased cost of sales.
 
 
N/M  not meaningful
(a) Refer to "Operating Results  Adjusted" later in this press release for further description.
Refer to "Operating Results" and "Operating Results  Adjusted" later in this press release for a summary of reported and adjusted operating income (loss) and net income (loss).
Zyprexa
In the second quarter of 2006, Zyprexa sales totaled $1.115 billion, a 2 percent increase. U.S. sales of Zyprexa decreased 1 percent, to $542.9 million, due primarily to lower demand compared with second quarter of 2005, partially offset by higher prices. However, the company is seeing improving prescription trends. Specifically, Zyprexa's U.S. prescriptions have held steady during the first six months of 2006. Zyprexa sales in international markets increased 5 percent, to $572.2 million, due to increased demand, offset partially by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and lower prices.
Diabetes Care Products
Diabetes care revenue, composed primarily of Humalog, Humulin, Actos and Byetta, increased 5 percent, to $701.7 million, compared with the second quarter of 2005. Diabetes care revenue increased 6 percent in the U.S., to $392.6 million, while diabetes care revenue outside the U.S. increased 4 percent, to $309.1 million.
Worldwide Humalog sales increased 8 percent, to $320.5 million, due to higher prices and increased demand outside the U.S., partially offset by a decline in demand in the U.S. Worldwide Humulin sales decreased 12 percent, to $219.8 million, driven primarily by decline in demand due to continued competitive pressures. Actos generated $92.6 million of revenue for Lilly, a decrease of 12 percent. As previously disclosed, since Lilly's share of revenue from the agreement with Takeda will vary quarter-to-quarter based on contract terms, Actos revenue will not necessarily track with product sales. As a result, it is difficult to make quarterly comparisons
 
for Actos revenue. Sales of Byetta, a first-in-class treatment for type 2 diabetes marketed by Lilly and Amylin Pharmaceuticals and launched in the U.S. in June 2005, were $98.6 million in the second quarter. Lilly reports as revenue its 50 percent share of Byetta's gross margins and its sales of Byetta pen delivery devices to Amylin; for the second quarter, this revenue totaled $52.1 million, representing a 46 percent sequential increase compared with first quarter of 2006.
Gemzar
Gemzar had sales totaling $343.5 million, which were flat compared with the second quarter of 2005. Sales in the U.S. decreased 3 percent, to $150.0 million. Gemzar sales outside the U.S. increased 3 percent, to $193.5 million, due to increased demand, offset partially by lower prices and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates.
Cymbalta
Cymbalta, a treatment for major depressive disorder and diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain, generated $310.4 million in sales, up 92 percent, compared with the second quarter of 2005. On a sequential basis, Cymbalta sales increased 33 percent compared with first quarter of 2006. U.S. sales of Cymbalta were $269.9 million, an increase of 79 percent, while sales outside the U.S. were $40.5 million, reflecting international launches. Also during the second quarter, Cymbalta's U.S. market share growth accelerated. Specifically, Cymbalta's share of new prescriptions increased 0.96 percentage points in the second quarter, compared with a 0.35 percentage point gain in the first quarter of 2006, per IMS Health, National Prescription Audit July 2006.
Plus7
Evista
Evista sales were $275.5 million, a 5 percent increase compared with the second quarter of 2005. U.S. sales of Evista increased 7 percent, to $175.0 million, due to higher prices. Evista sales outside the United States increased 2 percent, to $100.5 million, due to increased demand, offset partially by lower prices and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates.
Strattera
Strattera, the only nonstimulant medicine approved for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder in children, adolescents and adults, generated sales of $144.1 million, a 17 percent increase compared with the second quarter of 2005. The sales increase was primarily
 
due to reductions in U.S. wholesaler inventory levels during the second quarter of 2005 and higher prices, offset partially by a decline in demand in the U.S.
Alimta
Alimta, a treatment for malignant pleural mesothelioma and second-line treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer, generated sales of $153.0 million, up 38 percent compared with the second quarter of 2005. U.S. sales of Alimta increased 26 percent, to $87.7 million, while sales outside the U.S. increased 56 percent, to 65.4 million.
Forteo
Sales of Forteo, a treatment for severe osteoporosis, were $146.1 million, a 43 percent increase compared with the second quarter of 2005. U.S. sales of Forteo increased 43 percent, to $101.0 million, while sales outside the U.S. grew 45 percent, to $45.0 million.
Cialis
Total worldwide second-quarter sales of Cialis, a treatment for erectile dysfunction marketed by Lilly ICOS LLC, were $233.2 million, a 22 percent increase compared with second-quarter 2005 worldwide sales. Worldwide Cialis sales are composed of $50.5 million of sales in Lilly territories and $182.7 million of sales in the joint-venture territories. Within the joint-venture territories, the U.S. sales of Cialis were $93.8 million, a 32 percent increase compared with second-quarter 2005 U.S. sales. Cialis sales in Lilly territories are reported in Lilly's revenue, while Lilly's 50 percent share of the joint-venture territory sales, net of expenses, is reported in Lilly's other income. Cialis sales growth reflects both gains in market share and growth of the erectile dysfunction market during the quarter.
Animal Health
Worldwide sales of animal health products in the second quarter were $201.0 million and were flat compared with the second quarter of 2005.
Year-to-Date Results
For the first six months of the year, worldwide sales increased 6 percent, to $7.582 billion, compared with sales for the same period in 2005. Net income and diluted earnings per share were $1.657 billion and $1.53, respectively.
 
Excluding the 2005 product liability charge, the net income and diluted earnings per share for the first six months of 2006 would have increased 13 percent and 14 percent, respectively. This adjusted earnings growth was driven by increased sales and decreased cost of sales, offset partially by decreased total other income.
 
Refer to "Operating Results" and "Operating Results  Adjusted" later in this press release for a summary of reported and adjusted operating income (loss) and net income (loss).
2006 Financial Guidance
For full-year 2006, the company now expects sales growth at approximately the low end of its previous guidance of 7 percent to 9 percent growth. In addition, the company continues to expect gross margins as a percent of sales to improve modestly, operating expenses to grow in the mid-single digits, and total other income to contribute approximately $175 million to $275 million. Excluding the tax associated with the potential charges discussed below, the company continues to anticipate the effective tax rate to be approximately 21 percent. In terms of cash flow, the company continues to expect capital expenditures to be flat at about $1.4 billion in 2006.
The company expects third-quarter earnings per share in the range of $.77 to $.79, representing 5 percent to 8 percent growth compared with third-quarter 2005 earnings per share of $.73. For the full year, the company continues to expect earnings per share in the range of $3.10 to $3.20. This guidance excludes future, material unusual items, such as any charges related to the three potential European site closures discussed above. The 2006 earnings per share guidance compares to adjusted 2005 earnings per share of $2.87, representing 8 percent to 11 percent adjusted growth. Reported 2005 earnings per share was $1.81. The 2005 adjusted earnings per
 
share excludes the $.90 per share second-quarter product liability charge, the $.14 per share fourth-quarter asset impairment charge and the $.02 per share fourth-quarter charge for the cumulative effect of an accounting change due to adoption of new accounting rule (FIN 47) for conditional asset retirement obligations.
Webcast of Conference Call
As previously announced, investors and the general public can access a live webcast of the second-quarter 2006 financial results conference call through a link on Lilly's website at The conference call will be held today from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Saving Time and will be available for replay via the website through August 18, 2006.
www.lilly.com.
Lilly, a leading innovation-driven corporation, is developing a growing portfolio of first-in-class and best-in-class pharmaceutical products by applying the latest research from its own worldwide laboratories and from collaborations with eminent scientific organizations. Headquartered in Indianapolis, Ind., Lilly provides answers  through medicines and information  for some of the world's most urgent medical needs. Additional information about Lilly is available at F-LLY
www.lilly.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations; however, they are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially and will depend on, among other things, the continuing growth of our currently marketed products; developments with competitive products; the timing and scope of regulatory approvals and the success of our new product launches; asset impairments, restructurings, and acquisitions of compounds under development resulting in acquired in-process research and development charges; foreign exchange rates; wholesaler inventory changes; the outcome of the Zyprexa patent appeal; other regulatory developments, government investigations, patent disputes and litigation involving current and future products; changes in tax law; and the impact of governmental actions regarding pricing, importation, and reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. For additional information about the factors that affect the company's business, please see the company's latest Form 10-Q filed May 2006. The company undertakes no duty to update forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
Eli Lilly and Company Operating Results (Unaudited) (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
 
Eli Lilly and Company Operating Results (Unaudited)  ADJUSTED (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
 
Eli Lilly and Company Major Pharmaceutical Product Sales and Revenues (Unaudited) (Dollars in millions)
Eli Lilly and Company Employment Information


