FILE:LLY/LLY-8K-20080425124626.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Compensatory Arrangement
On April 21, 2008, the shareholders approved amendments to the company's 2002 Lilly Stock Plan (the "Plan"). Under the Plan, all employees of the company are eligible to participate. The Compensation Committee of the board (the "Committee") may make grants to officers and employees at its discretion. The Plan authorizes the grant of up to 80,000,000 shares plus unused shares under prior shareholder-approved stock plans.
The Committee may grant stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance awards, including shareholder value awards, restricted stock grants, and stock units to employees. The Board may grant stock options under the Plan to nonemployee directors. The Plan is designed to maximize the deductibility of stock options and performance awards under section 152(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
The adopted amendments to the plan include the following:
A copy of the amended Plan is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 5.03 Amendment to Bylaws
On April 21, 2008, the shareholders approved amendments to the company's articles of incorporation to provide for election of directors by a majority of the votes cast. Previously, directors were elected by a plurality of the vote. The board of directors approved related amendments to sections 2.3 and 2.6 of the company's bylaws, effective upon approval by the shareholders of amendments to the articles of incorporation. The primary purpose of the amendments is to require a director who receives less than a majority of the votes cast for his or her election to offer to resign immediately.
The amended bylaws state that once such a director tenders his or her resignation, the Directors and Corporate Governance Committee of the board will make a recommendation to the board whether to accept or reject the resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors will act on the tendered resignation, taking into account the Directors and Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release, a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission or other broadly disseminated means of
 
communication) its decision regarding the tendered resignation and the rationale behind the decision within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results.
If an incumbent director's resignation is not accepted by the Board of Directors, such director shall continue to serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders and until his or her successor is duly elected, or his or her earlier resignation or removal. If a director's resignation is accepted by the Board of Directors, or if a nominee fails to receive the required vote and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy or decrease the size of the Board of Directors.
These provisions do not apply in a contested election  an election where the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected  in which case, directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality.
A copy of the amended and restated bylaws is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K, and a copy of the amended and restated articles of incorporation is attached as Exhibit 99.3.
Item 9.01.
Exhibits
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
The 2002 Lilly Stock Plan ("2002 Plan") authorizes the Board of Directors of Eli Lilly and Company ("Board") and the Compensation Committee of the Board, as applicable, to provide officers and other employees of Eli Lilly and Company and its subsidiaries and nonemployee directors of Eli Lilly and Company ("Nonemployee Directors") with certain rights to acquire shares of Eli Lilly and Company common stock ("Lilly Stock"). The Company believes that this incentive program will benefit the Company's shareholders by allowing the Company to attract, motivate, and retain employees and directors and by providing those employees and directors stock-based incentives to strengthen the alignment of interests between those persons and the shareholders. For purposes of the 2002 Plan, the term "Company" shall mean Eli Lilly and Company and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise.
1. Administration.
2. Grants. Incentives under the 2002 Plan shall consist of incentive stock options or other forms of tax-qualified stock options under the Code, nonqualified stock options, performance awards, stock appreciation rights, stock unit awards, and restricted stock grants (collectively, "Grants"). The Committee shall approve the form and provisions of each Grant to Eligible Employees and the Board shall approve the form and provisions of each Stock Option Grant to Nonemployee Directors. All Grants shall be subject to the terms and conditions set out herein and to such other terms and conditions consistent with the
 
2002 Plan as the Committee or Board, as applicable, deems appropriate. Grants under a particular section of the 2002 Plan need not be uniform and Grants under two or more sections may be combined in one instrument. The Committee shall determine the fair market value of Lilly Stock for purposes of the 2002 Plan.
3. Eligibility for Grants.
4. Shares Available for Grant.
          The shares may be authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares.
 
5. Stock Option Grants to Eligible Employees. The Committee may grant to Eligible Employees options qualifying as incentive stock options under the Code ("Incentive Stock Options"), other forms of tax-favored stock options under the Code, and nonqualified stock options (collectively, "Stock Options"). The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions applicable to Stock Options granted to Eligible Employees consistent with the following:
 
6. Performance Awards to Eligible Employees. The Committee may grant to Eligible Employees Performance Awards, which shall be denominated at the time of grant in shares of Lilly Stock. Payment under a Performance Award shall be made, at the discretion of the Committee, in shares of Lilly Stock ("Performance Shares"), or in cash or in any combination thereof, if the financial or market performance of the Company or any subsidiary, division, or other unit of the Company ("Business Unit") selected by the Committee meets certain goals established by the Committee for the Award Period. The following provisions are applicable to Performance Awards:
 
7. Restricted Stock Grants to Eligible Employees. The Committee may issue or transfer shares of Lilly Stock to an Eligible Employee under a Restricted Stock Grant. Upon the issuance or transfer, the Grantee shall be entitled to vote the shares and to receive any dividends paid. The following provisions are applicable to Restricted Stock Grants:
 
8. Stock Option Grants to Nonemployee Directors The Board may grant Stock Options to Nonemployee Directors and may determine the terms and conditions applicable to such Stock Options consistent with the following provisions:
9. Stock Appreciation Rights to Eligible Employees. The Committee may grant Stock Appreciation Rights to Eligible Employees. A Stock Appreciation Right is an award in the form of a right to receive, upon exercise or settlement of the right but without other payment, an amount based on appreciation in the fair market value of shares of Lilly Stock over a base price established for the Award. Stock Appreciation Rights shall be settled or exercisable at such time or times and upon conditions as may be approved by the Committee, provided that the Committee may accelerate the settlement or exercisability of a Stock Appreciation Right at any time. The following provisions are applicable to Stock Appreciation Rights:
 
10. Stock Unit Awards to Eligible Employees. The Committee may grant Stock Unit Awards to Eligible Employees. A Stock Unit Award is an award of a number of hypothetical share units with respect to shares of Lilly Stock that are granted subject to such vesting and transfer restrictions and conditions of payment as the Committee shall determine and set forth in an award agreement. The value of each unit under a Stock Unit Award is equal to the fair market value of the Lilly Stock on any applicable date of determination. A Stock Unit Award shall be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall determine. A Stock Unit Award may be granted, at the discretion of the Committee, together with a dividend equivalent right with respect to the same number of shares of Lilly Stock. The following provisions are applicable to Stock Unit Awards:
 
11. Amendment and Termination of the 2002 Plan.
12. Change in Control.
 
 
13. General Provisions.
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
     SECTION 1.0. . The annual meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as properly may come before the meeting shall be held on the third Monday in April in each year; provided, however, that for a particular year the Board of Directors may designate another date not later than June 30 of that year by resolution adopted by not less than a majority of the directors then in office. Failure to hold an annual meeting of the shareholders at such designated time shall not affect otherwise valid corporate acts or work a forfeiture or dissolution of the Corporation.
Annual Meetings
     SECTION 1.1. . Special meetings of the shareholders may be called at any time by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Special Meetings
     SECTION 1.2. . Each meeting of the shareholders shall be held at such time of day and place, either within or without the State of Indiana, as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. Each adjourned meeting of the shareholders shall be held at such time and place as may be provided in the motion for adjournment. The chairman of each meeting shall have sole authority to decide questions relating to the conduct of that meeting.
Time, Place, and Conduct of Meetings
     SECTION 1.3. . The Secretary shall cause a written or printed notice of the place, day and hour and the purpose or purposes of each meeting of the shareholders to be delivered or mailed (which may include by facsimile or other form of electronic communication) at least ten (10) but not more than sixty (60) days prior to the meeting, to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting, at the shareholder's address as the same appears on the records maintained by the Corporation. Notice of any such shareholders meeting may be waived by any shareholder by delivering a written waiver to the Secretary before or after such meeting. Attendance at any meeting in person or by proxy when the instrument of proxy sets forth in reasonable detail the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall constitute a waiver of notice thereof. Notice of any adjourned meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation shall not be required to be given unless otherwise required by statute.
Notice of Meetings
     SECTION 1.4. . At any meeting of the shareholders a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on a matter at such meeting, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for action on that matter. In the absence of a quorum, the
Quorum
 
chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote present in person or by proxy, or, if no shareholder entitled to vote is present in person or by proxy, any officer entitled to preside at or act as Secretary of such meeting, may adjourn such meeting from time to time, until a quorum shall be present. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum may be present any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
     SECTION 1.5. . Except as otherwise provided by statute or by the Articles of Incorporation, at each meeting of the shareholders each holder of shares entitled to vote shall have the right to one vote for each share standing in the shareholder's name on the books of the Corporation on the record date fixed for the meeting under Section 1.7. Each shareholder entitled to vote shall be entitled to vote in person or by proxy executed in writing (which shall include facsimile) or transmitted by electronic submission by the shareholder or a duly authorized attorney in fact. The vote of shareholders approving any matter to which the provisions of Article 9(c) or 9(d) or Article 13 of the Articles of Incorporation or of a statute are applicable shall require the percentage of affirmative vote therein specified. All other matters, except the election of directors, shall require that the votes cast in favor of the matter exceed the votes cast opposing the matter at a meeting at which a quorum is present. In the event that more than one group of shares is entitled to vote as a separate voting group, the vote of each group shall be considered and decided separately.
Voting
     SECTION 1.6. . The Secretary shall make or cause to be made, after a record date for a meeting of shareholders has been fixed under Section 1.7 and at least five (5) days before such meeting, a complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of each such shareholder and the number of shares so entitled to vote held by each which list shall be on file at the principal office of the Corporation and subject to inspection by any shareholder entitled to vote at the meeting. Such list shall be produced and kept open at the time and place of the meeting and subject to the inspection of any such shareholder during the holding of such meeting or any adjournment. Except as otherwise required by law, such list shall be the only evidence as to who are the shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of the shareholders. In the event that more than one group of shares is entitled to vote as a separate voting group at the meeting, there shall be a separate listing of the shareholders of each group.
Voting Lists
     SECTION 1.7. For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend, or in order to make a determination of shareholders for any other proper purpose, the Board of Directors shall fix in advance a date as the record date for any such determination of shareholders, not more than seventy (70) days prior to the date on which the particular action requiring this determination of shareholders is to be taken. When a determination of shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders has been made as provided in this section, the determination shall, to the extent permitted by law, apply to any adjournment thereof.
Fixing of Record Date.
 
     SECTION 1.8. . At an annual meeting of the shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (c) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a shareholder. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, the shareholder must have the legal right and authority to make the proposal for consideration at the meeting and the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than one hundred twenty (120) calendar days in advance of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement released to shareholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting of shareholders; provided, however, that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than thirty (30) days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the later of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days in advance of such annual meeting or ten (10) calendar days following the date on which public announcement of the date of the meeting is first made.
Notice of Shareholder Business
     A shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business described to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (b) the name and record address of the shareholder(s) proposing such business, (c) the class and number of the Corporation's shares which are beneficially owned by such shareholder(s), and (d) any material interest of such shareholder(s) in such business. Notwithstanding anything in these By-laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.8. The chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 1.8, and if the chairman should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted. At any special meeting of the shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 1.9. . Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.9 shall be eligible for election as Directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at or prior to a meeting of shareholders by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or by any nominating committee or person appointed by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, and at a meeting of shareholders by any shareholder entitled to vote for the election of Directors at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.9. Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than one hundred twenty (120) calendar days in advance of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement released to shareholders in connection with the
Notice of Shareholder Nominees
 
previous year's annual meeting of shareholders; provided, however, that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than thirty (30) days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the later of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days in advance of such annual meeting or ten (10) calendar days following the date on which public announcement of the date of the meeting is first made.
     Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person; (ii) the principal occupation or employment of such person; (iii) the class and number of the Corporation's shares which are beneficially owned by such person; and (iv) to the extent reasonably available to the shareholder, any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of Directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including without limitation such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a Director if elected); and (b) as to the shareholder giving the notice (i) the name and record address of such shareholder and (ii) the class and number of the Corporation's shares which are beneficially owned by such shareholder. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.9. The chairman of the meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not so declared in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these By-laws, and if the chairman should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
     SECTION 2.0. The property, affairs and business of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors.
General Powers.
     SECTION 2.1. The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be sixteen (16), which number may be either increased or diminished by resolution adopted by not less than a majority of the directors then in office; provided that the number may not be diminished below nine (9) and no reduction in number shall have the effect of shortening the term of any incumbent director. In the event that the holders of shares of preferred stock become entitled to elect two directors, the number of directors and the minimum number of directors shall be increased by two. Neither ownership of stock of the Corporation nor residence in the State of Indiana shall be required as a qualification for a director.
Number and Qualifications.
     SECTION 2.2. . The directors shall be divided into three classes as nearly equal in number as possible. Except as provided in Article 9 of the Articles of
Classes of Directors and Terms
 
Incorporation fixing one, two, and three year terms for the initial classified board, each class of directors shall be elected for a term of three (3) years. In the event of vacancy, either by death, resignation, or removal of a director, or by reason of an increase in the number of directors, each replacement or new director shall serve for the balance of the term of the class of the director he or she succeeds or, in the event of an increase in the number of directors, of the class to which he or she is assigned. All directors elected for a term shall continue in office until the election and qualification of their respective successors, their death, their resignation in accordance with Section 2.6, their removal in accordance with Section 2.7, or if there has been a reduction in the number of directors and no successor is to be elected, until the end of the term.
     SECTION 2.3. Subject to the rights of the holders of preferred stock to elect any directors voting separately as a class or series, at each annual meeting of shareholders, the directors to be elected at the meeting shall be chosen by the majority of the votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election at the meeting, provided a quorum is present; provided, however, that if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, then directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote, provided a quorum is present. For purposes of this Section 2.3, a "majority of votes cast" shall mean that the number of votes cast "for" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director's election. If a nominee fails to receive the required vote and is an incumbent director, the director shall promptly tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors, subject to acceptance by the Board of Directors. The Directors and Corporate Governance Committee will make a recommendation to the Board of Directors whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors will act on the tendered resignation, taking into account the Directors and Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release, a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission or other broadly disseminated means of communication) its decision regarding the tendered resignation and the rationale behind the decision within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. The Directors and Corporate Governance Committee in making its recommendation and the Board of Directors in making its decision may each consider any factors or other information that they consider appropriate and relevant. The director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the recommendation of the Directors and Corporate Governance Committee or the decision of the Board of Directors with respect to his or her resignation. If an incumbent director's resignation is not accepted by the Board of Directors, such director shall continue to serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders and until his or her successor is duly elected, or his or her earlier resignation or removal. If a director's resignation is accepted by the Board of Directors, or if a nominee fails to receive the required vote and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Article 9 of the Amended Articles of Incorporation or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of Article 9 of the Amended Articles of Incorporation and Section 2.2.
Election of Directors.
     The election of directors by the shareholders shall be by written ballot if directed by the chairman of the meeting or if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected.
 
     Any vacancy on the Board of Directors shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors.
     If the holders of preferred stock are entitled to elect any directors voting separately as a class or series, those directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of shares of preferred stock entitled to vote in the election at the meeting, provided a quorum of the holders of shares of preferred stock is present.
     SECTION 2.4. .
Meetings of Directors
     a. Annual Meeting. Unless otherwise provided by resolution of the Board of Directors, the annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held at the place of and immediately following the annual meeting of shareholders, for the purpose of organization, the election of officers and the transaction of such other business as properly may come before the meeting. No notice of the meeting need be given, except in the case an amendment to the By-laws is to be considered.
     b. Regular Meetings. The Board of Directors by resolution may provide for the holding of regular meetings and may fix the times and places (within or outside the State of Indiana) at which those meetings shall be held. Notice of regular meetings need not be given except when an amendment to the By-laws is to be considered. Whenever the time or place of regular meetings shall be fixed or changed, notice of this action shall be mailed promptly to each director not present when the action was taken, addressed to the director at his or her residence or usual place of business.
     c. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board and shall be called by the Secretary at the request of any three (3) directors. Except as otherwise required by statute, notice of each special meeting shall be mailed to each director at his or her residence or usual place of business at least three (3) days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to the director at such place by facsimile transmission or other form of electronic communication or personally delivered, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held. The notice shall state the time and place (which may be within or outside the State of Indiana) of the meeting but, unless otherwise required by statute, the Articles of Incorporation or the By-laws, need not state the purposes thereof.
     Notice of any meeting need not be given to any director, however, who shall attend the meeting, or who shall waive notice thereof, before, at the time of, or after the meeting, in a writing signed by the director and delivered to the Corporation. No notice need be given of any meeting at which every member of the Board of Directors shall be present.
     SECTION 2.5. A majority of the actual number of directors established pursuant to Section 2.1, from time to time, shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business except the filling of vacancies on the Board of Directors under Section 2.3 or voting on a conflict of interest transaction under Section 2.12. The act of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present, shall be
Quorum and Manner of Acting.
 
the act of the Board of Directors, unless the act of a greater number is required by statute, by the Articles of Incorporation, or by the By-laws. Under the provisions of Article 13 of the Articles of Incorporation, certain actions by the Board of Directors therein specified require not only approval by the Board of Directors, but also approval by a majority of the Continuing Directors, as therein defined. Any or all directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by which all persons participating in the meeting may simultaneously hear each other, and participation in this manner shall constitute presence in person at the meeting. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present. No notice of any adjourned meeting need be given.
     SECTION 2.6. . Any director may resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the Secretary. Unless otherwise specified in the written notice, the resignation shall take effect upon receipt thereof and unless otherwise specified in it, the acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. In addition, a director who fails to receive a majority of the votes cast at an annual meeting of shareholders at which the number of nominees does not exceed the number of directors to be elected shall tender his or her resignation subject to acceptance in accordance with Section 2.3.
Resignations
     SECTION 2.7. . Any director, other than a director elected by holders of preferred stock voting as a class, may be removed from office at any time but only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least 80 percent of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of all of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock (as defined in Article 13 of the Articles of Incorporation), voting together as a single class.
Removal of Directors
     SECTION 2.8. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if taken by all members of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, evidenced by a written consent signed by all such members and effective on the date, either prior or subsequent to the date of the consent, specified in the written consent, or if no effective date is specified in the written consent, the date on which the consent is filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Action without a Meeting
     SECTION 2.9. . A director, who is present at a meeting of the Board of Directors, at which action on any corporate matter is taken, shall be presumed to have assented to the action taken, unless (a) the director's dissent shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting, (b) the director shall file a written dissent to such action with the Secretary of the meeting before adjournment thereof, or (c) the director shall forward such dissent by registered mail to the Secretary immediately after adjournment of the meeting. The right of dissent provided for by the preceding sentence shall not be available, in respect of any matter acted upon at any meeting, to a director who voted in favor of such action.
Attendance and Failure to Object
 
     SECTION 2.10. . The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the actual number of directors elected and qualified, may designate from among its members one or more committees. Such committees shall have those powers of the Board of Directors which may by law be delegated to such committees and are specified by resolution of the Board of Directors or by committee charters approved by the Board of Directors.
Special Standing Committees
     SECTION 2.11. . The Board of Directors or the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, prior to each annual meeting of shareholders, shall appoint a firm of independent public accountants as auditors of the Corporation. Such appointment shall be submitted to the shareholders for ratification at the annual meeting next following such appointment. Should the shareholders fail to ratify the appointment of any firm as auditors of the Corporation, or should the Board of Directors or Audit Committee for any reason determine that any such appointment be terminated, the Board of Directors or Audit Committee shall appoint another firm of independent public accountants to act as auditors of the Corporation and such appointment shall be submitted to the shareholders for ratification at the annual or special shareholders meeting next following such appointment.
Appointment of Auditors
     SECTION 2.12. . No transactions with the Corporation in which one or more of its directors has a direct or indirect interest shall be either void or voidable solely because of such interest if any one of the following is true:
Transactions with Corporation
     (a) the material facts of the transaction and the director's interest are disclosed or known to the Board of Directors or committee which authorizes, approves, or ratifies the transaction by the affirmative vote or consent of a majority of the directors (or committee members) who have no direct or indirect interest in the transaction and, in any event, of at least two directors (or committee members);
     (b) the material facts of the transaction and the director's interest are disclosed or known to the shareholders entitled to vote and they authorize, approve or ratify such transaction by vote; or
     (c) the transaction is fair to the Corporation.
     If a majority of the directors or committee members who have no direct or indirect interest in the transaction vote to authorize, approve, or ratify the transaction, a quorum is present for purposes of taking action under subsection (a) of this section. The presence of, or a vote cast by, a director with a direct or indirect interest in the transaction does not affect the validity of any actions taken under subsection (a) of this section.
     SECTION 2.13. . The Board of Directors is empowered and authorized to fix and determine the compensation of directors and additional compensation for such additional services any of such directors may perform for the Corporation.
Compensation of Directors
 
     SECTION 3.0. . The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, a President, two (2) or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, a Treasurer, a Chief Accounting Officer, and such other officers as may be elected or appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.2. One or more of the Vice Presidents may be designated by the Board to serve as Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, or Group Vice Presidents. Any two (2) or more offices may be held by the same person. All officers and agents of the Corporation, as between themselves and the Corporation, shall have such authority and perform such duties in the management of the Corporation as may be provided in the By-laws or as may be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors not inconsistent with the By-laws.
Officers, General Authority and Duties
     SECTION 3.1. . Each officer (except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.2. of this Article III) shall be elected by the Board of Directors at each annual meeting. Each such officer (whether elected at an annual meeting of the Board of Directors or to fill a vacancy or otherwise) shall hold office until the officer's successor is chosen and qualified, or until death, or until the officer shall resign in the manner provided in Section 3.3. or be removed in the manner provided in Section 3.4. The Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer shall be members of the Board of Directors. Any other officer may but need not be a director of the Corporation. Election or appointment of an officer or agent shall not of itself create contract rights.
Election, Term of Office, Qualifications
     SECTION 3.2. . The Board of Directors from time to time may elect such other officers or agents (including one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, one or more Assistant Treasurers, a Controller, and one or more Assistant Controllers) as it may deem necessary or advisable. The Board of Directors may delegate to any officer the power to appoint any such officers or agents and to prescribe their respective terms of office, powers and duties.
Other Officers, Election or Appointment
     SECTION 3.3. . Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary of the Corporation. Unless otherwise specified in such written notice, such resignation shall take effect upon receipt thereof and unless otherwise specified in it, the acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation
     SECTION 3.4. . The officers specifically designated in Section 3.0. may be removed, either for or without cause, at any meeting of the Board of Directors called for the purpose, by the vote of a majority of the actual number of directors elected and qualified. The officers and agents elected or appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.2. may be removed, either for or without cause, at any meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum be present, by the vote of a majority of the directors present at such meeting, by any superior
Removal
 
officer upon whom such power of removal shall have been conferred by the Board of Directors, or by any officer to whom the power to appoint such officer has been delegated by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 3.2. Any removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed.
     SECTION 3.5. . A vacancy in any office by reason of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause, may be filled by the Board of Directors or by an officer authorized under Section 3.2. to appoint to such office.
Vacancies
     SECTION 3.6. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors if present and shall have such powers and perform such duties as are assigned to him or her by the By-laws and by the Board of Directors. At any time in which neither the Chairman nor the Chief Executive Officer is able to perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chairman, then the Board's presiding or lead director (if one shall have have been previously selected) shall perform such duties and exercise such powers.
Chairman of the Board of Directors
     SECTION 3.7. . The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision over the management and direction of the business of the Corporation. He or she shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect. The Chief Executive Officer shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as are assigned to him or her by the By-laws or the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chairman of the Board at any time that the Chairman of the Board is unable to do so, and shall also perform the duties and exercise the powers of the President at any time that the President is unable to do so.
Chief Executive Officer
     SECTION 3.8. The President shall have such powers and perform such duties as are assigned to him or her by the Chief Executive Officer, the By-laws or the Board of Directors. The President shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chief Executive Officer at any time that the Chief Executive Officer is unable to do so. If the President is also a director, he or she shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chairman of the Board at any time that none of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the presiding or lead director is able to do so.
President.
     SECTION 3.9. . Each Executive Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to him or her by the President or the Board of Directors. The Executive Vice Presidents, in order of their seniority in office as Executive Vice Presidents (and, between two or more of equal seniority in office as Executive Vice Presidents, in order of their seniority in office as Vice Presidents), shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chief Executive Officer and the President at any time that both the Chief Executive Officer and the President are unable to do so.
Executive Vice Presidents
 
     SECTION 3.10. . Each Senior Vice President and each Group Vice President shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be assigned to him or her by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors. The Senior Vice Presidents, in order of their seniority in office as Senior Vice Presidents (and between two or more of equal seniority in office as Senior Vice Presidents, in order of their seniority in office as Vice Presidents), shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chief Executive Officer and the President at any time that the Chief Executive Officer, the President, and all the Executive Vice Presidents are unable to do so.
Senior Vice Presidents and Group Vice Presidents
     SECTION 3.11. . Each Vice President shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be assigned to him or her by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors.
Vice Presidents
     SECTION 3.12. . The Secretary shall:
Secretary
     (a) record all the proceedings of the meetings of the shareholders and Board of Directors in books to be kept for such purposes;
     (b) cause all notices to be duly given in accordance with the provisions of these By-laws and as required by statute;
     (c) be custodian of the Seal of the Corporation, and cause such Seal to be affixed to all certificates representing shares of the Corporation prior to the issuance thereof (subject, however, to the provisions of Section 5.0) and to all instruments the execution of which on behalf of the Corporation under its Seal shall have been duly authorized in accordance with these By-laws;
     (d) subject to the provisions of Section 5.0, sign certificates representing shares of the Corporation the issuance of which shall have been authorized by the Board of Directors; and
     (e) in general, perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as are given to the Secretary by these By-laws or as may be assigned to him or her by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 3.13. . Each Assistant Secretary shall assist the Secretary in his or her duties, and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe or the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary may from time to time delegate. At the request of the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary may temporarily act in the Secretary's place in the performing of part or all of the duties of the Secretary. In the case of the death of the Secretary, or in the case of the Secretary's absence or inability to act without having designated an Assistant Secretary to act temporarily in his or her place, the Assistant Secretary who is to perform the duties of the Secretary shall be designated by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors.
Assistant Secretaries
 
     SECTION 3.14. . The Chief Financial Officer shall:
Chief Financial Officer
     (a) have supervision over and be responsible for the funds, securities, receipts, and disbursements of the Corporation;
     (b) cause to be kept at the principal business office of the Corporation and preserved for review as required by law or regulation records of financial transactions and correct books of account using appropriate accounting principles;
     (c) be responsible for the establishment of adequate internal control over the transactions and books of account of the Corporation;
     (d) be responsible for rendering to the proper officers and the Board of Directors upon request, and to the shareholders and other parties as required by law or regulation, financial statements of the Corporation; and
     (e) in general perform all duties incident to the office and such other duties as are given by the By-laws or as may be assigned by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 3.15. . The Treasurer shall:
Treasurer
     (a) have charge of the funds, securities, receipts and disbursements of the Corporation;
     (b) cause the moneys and other valuable effects of the Corporation to be deposited or invested in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such banks or trust companies or with such bankers or other depositories or investments as shall be selected in accordance with resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors;
     (c) cause the funds of the Corporation to be disbursed from the authorized depositories of the Corporation, and cause to be taken and preserved proper records of all moneys disbursed; and
     (d) in general, perform all duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as are given to the Treasurer by the By-laws or as may be assigned to him or her by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, or the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 3.16. . Each Assistant Treasurer shall assist the Treasurer in his or her duties, and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe or the President or the Chief Financial Officer may from time to time delegate. At the request of the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer may temporarily act in the Treasurer's place in performing part or all of the duties of the Treasurer. In the case of the death of the Treasurer, or in the case of the Treasurer's absence or inability to act without having designated an Assistant Treasurer to act in his or her place, the Assistant Treasurer who is to perform the duties of the Treasurer shall be designated by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Board of Directors.
Assistant Treasurers
 
     SECTION 3.17. . The Chief Accounting Officer shall:
Chief Accounting Officer
     (a) keep full and accurate accounts of all assets, liabilities, commitments, revenues, costs and expenses, and other financial transactions of the Corporation in books belonging to the Corporation, and conform them to sound accounting principles with adequate internal control;
     (b) cause regular audits of these books and records to be made;
     (c) see that all expenditures are made in accordance with procedures duly established, from time to time, by the Corporation;
     (d) render financial statements upon the request of the Board of Directors, and a full financial report prior to the annual meeting of shareholders, as well as such other financial statements as are required by law or regulation; and
     (e) in general, perform all the duties ordinarily connected with the office of Chief Accounting Officer and such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, or the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 3.18. . The Board of Directors may appoint a general counsel who shall have general control of all matters of legal import concerning the Corporation.
General Counsel
     SECTION 3.19. . Any other officers or agents elected or appointed pursuant to Section 3.2 shall have such duties and responsibilities as may be fixed from time to time by the By-laws or as may be assigned to them by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors.
Other Officers or Agents
     SECTION 3.20. In recognition of distinguished service to the Corporation, the Board of Directors may designate a person who has served as Chairman of the Board and who is no longer an employee, officer, or director as Chairman Emeritus. The Chairman Emeritus may serve to represent the Corporation at the request of the Chairman of the Board.
Chairman Emeritus.
     SECTION 3.21. . The compensation of executive officers of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Compensation Committee (or successor committee) established pursuant to Section 2.10. Unless the Board of Directors by resolution shall direct otherwise, the compensation of employees who are not executive officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the management of the Company. No employee shall be prevented from receiving compensation by reason of being a director of the Corporation.
Compensation
 
     SECTION 3.22. . In case the Board of Directors shall so require, any officer or agent of the Corporation shall execute to the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as the Board of Directors may direct, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties to the Corporation, including responsibility for negligence and for the accounting of all property, funds or securities of the Corporation which the officer or agent may handle.
Surety Bonds
     SECTION 4.0. . All deeds, contracts, and other instruments requiring execution by the Corporation may be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President. Authority to sign any deed, contract, or other instrument requiring execution by the Corporation may be conferred by the Board of Directors upon any person or persons whether or not such person or persons be officers of the Corporation. Such person or persons may delegate, from time to time, by instrument in writing, all or any part of such authority to any other person or persons if authorized so to do by the Board of Directors.
Execution of Instruments Generally
     SECTION 4.1. . All notes, drafts, acceptances, checks, endorsements, and all evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation whatsoever, shall be signed by such officer or officers or such agent or agents of the Corporation and in such manner as the Board of Directors from time to time may determine. Endorsements for deposit to the credit of the Corporation in any of its duly authorized depositories shall be made in such manner as the Board of Directors from time to time may determine.
Notes, Checks, Other Instruments
     SECTION 4.2. . Proxies, powers of attorney, or consents to vote with respect to shares or units of other corporations or other entities owned by or standing in the name of the Corporation may be executed and delivered from time to time on behalf of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or by any other person or persons thereunto authorized by the Board of Directors. Persons with authority to execute proxies, powers of attorney, or consents under this Section 4.2 may delegate that authority unless prohibited by the Board of Directors.
Proxies
 
     SECTION 5.0. . Shares in the corporation may be issued in book-entry form or evidenced by certificates. However, every holder of shares in the Corporation shall be entitled upon request to have a certificate evidencing the shares owned by the shareholder, signed in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, President or a Vice President and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, certifying the number of shares owned by the shareholder in the Corporation. The signatures of such officers, the signature of the transfer agent and registrar, and the Seal of the Corporation may be facsimiles. In case any officer or employee who shall have signed, or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been used on, any certificate shall cease to be an officer or employee of the Corporation before the certificate shall have been issued and delivered by the Corporation, the certificate may nevertheless be adopted by the Corporation and be issued and delivered as though the person or persons who signed the certificate or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer or employee of the Corporation; and the issuance and delivery by the Corporation of any such certificate shall constitute an adoption thereof. Every certificate shall state on its face (or in the case of book-entry shares, the statements evidencing ownership of such shares shall state) the name of the Corporation and that it is organized under the laws of the State of Indiana, the name of the person to whom it is issued, and the number and class of shares and the designation of the series, if any, the certificate represents, and shall state conspicuously on its front or back that the Corporation will furnish the shareholder, upon written request and without charge, a summary of the designations, relative rights, preferences and limitations applicable to each class and the variations in rights, preferences and limitations determined for each series (and the authority of the Board of Directors to determine variations for future series). Every certificate (or book-entry statement) shall state whether such shares have been fully paid and are non-assessable. If any such shares are not fully paid, the certificate (or book-entry statement) shall be legibly stamped to indicate the percentum which has been paid up, and as further payments are made thereon, the certificate shall be stamped (or book-entry statement updated) accordingly. Subject to the foregoing provisions, certificates representing shares in the Corporation shall be in such form as shall be approved by the Board of Directors. There shall be entered upon the stock books of the Corporation at the time of the issuance or transfer of each share the number of the certificates representing such share (if any), the name of the person owning the shares represented thereby, the class of such share and the date of the issuance or transfer thereof.
Certificates for Shares
     SECTION 5.1. . Transfer of shares of the Corporation shall be made on the books of the Corporation by the holder of record thereof, or by the shareholder's attorney thereunto duly authorized in writing and filed with the Secretary of the Corporation or any of its transfer agents, and on surrender of the certificate or certificates (if any) representing such shares. The Corporation and its transfer agents and registrars, shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares the absolute owner thereof for all purposes, and accordingly shall not be bound to recognize any legal, equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person whether or not it or they shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise expressly provided by the statutes of the State of Indiana.
Transfer of Shares
 
Shareholders shall notify the Corporation in writing of any changes in their addresses from time to time.
     SECTION 5.2. . Subject to the provisions of this Article V, the Board of Directors may make such rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issuance, transfer and regulation of certificates for shares or book-entry shares of the Corporation.
Regulations
     SECTION 5.3. . The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents, one or more registrars, and one or more agents to act in the dual capacity of transfer agent and registrar with respect to the certificates representing shares and the book-entry shares of the Corporation.
Transfer Agents and Registrars
     SECTION 5.4. . The holders of any shares of the Corporation shall immediately notify the Corporation or one of its transfer agents and registrars of any loss or destruction of the certificate representing the same. The Corporation may issue a new certificate in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it alleged to have been lost or destroyed upon such terms and under such regulations as may be adopted by the Board of Directors or the Secretary, and the Board of Directors or Secretary may require the owner of the lost or destroyed certificate or the owner's legal representatives to give the Corporation a bond in such form and for such amount as the Board of Directors or Secretary may direct, and with such surety or sureties as may be satisfactory to the Board of Directors or the Secretary to indemnify the Corporation and its transfer agents and registrars against any claim that may be made against it or any such transfer agent or registrar on account of the alleged loss or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate. A new certificate may be issued without requiring any bond when, in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the Secretary, it is proper so to do.
Lost or Destroyed Certificates
     SECTION 5.5. . Any or all control shares acquired in a control share acquisition shall be subject to redemption by the Corporation, if either:
Redemption of Shares Acquired in Control Share Acquisitions
     (a) No acquiring person statement has been filed with the Corporation with respect to the control share acquisition; or
     (b) The control shares are not accorded full voting rights by the Corporation's shareholders as provided in IC 23-1-42-9.
     A redemption pursuant to Section 5.5(a) may be made at any time during the period ending sixty (60) days after the date of the last acquisition of control shares by the acquiring person. A redemption pursuant to Section 5.5(b) may be made at any time during the period ending two (2) years after the date of the shareholder vote with respect to the voting rights of the control shares in question. Any redemption pursuant to this Section 5.5 shall be made at the fair
 
value of the control shares and pursuant to such procedures for the redemption as may be set forth in these By-laws or adopted by resolution of the Board of Directors.
     As used in this Section 5.5, the terms "control shares," "control share acquisition," "acquiring person statement" and "acquiring person" shall have the meanings ascribed to them in IC 23-1-42.
     SECTION 6.0. . The Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law now or hereafter in effect, indemnify any person who is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation ("Eligible Person") and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed investigation, claim, action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including, without limitation, any action, suit or proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor) (a "Proceeding") by reason of the fact that such Eligible Person is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, partner, member, manager, trustee, employee, fiduciary or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, any employee benefit plan) (a "Covered Entity"), against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines or penalties against (including excise taxes assessed with respect to an employee benefit plan) and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such Eligible Person in connection with such Proceeding; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not apply to a Proceeding commenced by a current or former director, officer or employee of the Corporation except for such a Proceeding commenced following a Change in Control (as hereafter defined) with respect to actions or failure to act prior to such Change in Control. Any right of an Eligible Person to indemnification shall be a contract right and shall include the right to receive, prior to the conclusion of any Proceeding, advancement of any expenses incurred by the Eligible Person in connection with such Proceeding in accordance with Section 6.3.
Right to Indemnification
     SECTION 6.1. . The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any Eligible Person against any expense, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement as specified in Section 6.0 of this Article or incurred by any Eligible Person in connection with any Proceeding referred to in such section, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law now or hereafter in effect. The Corporation may enter into agreements with any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or any director, officer, employee, fiduciary or agent of any Covered Entity supplemental to or in furtherance of the provisions of this Article and may create a trust fund or use other means (including, without limitation, a letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to effect indemnification and advancement of expenses as provided in this Article.
Insurance, Contracts and Funding
 
     SECTION 6.2. . The rights provided in this Article shall not be exclusive of any other rights to which any Eligible Person may otherwise be entitled, and the provisions of this Article shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal representatives of any Eligible Person and shall be applicable to Proceedings commenced or continuing after the adoption of this Article, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after such adoption.
Non-Exclusive Rights; Applicability to Certain Proceedings
     SECTION 6.3. . All reasonable expenses incurred by or on behalf of an Eligible Person in connection with any Proceeding shall be advanced to the Eligible Person by the Corporation within sixty (60) days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the Eligible Person requesting such advance or advances from time to time, whether prior to or after final disposition of such Proceeding unless a determination has been made pursuant to Section 6.4 that such Eligible Person is not entitled to indemnification. Any such statement or statements shall reasonably evidence the expenses incurred by the Eligible Person and shall include any written affirmation or undertaking to repay advances if it is ultimately determined that the Eligible Person is not entitled to indemnification under this Article.
Advancement of Expenses
     SECTION 6.4. . In furtherance, but not in limitation, of the foregoing provisions, the following procedures, presumptions and remedies shall apply with respect to and the right to indemnification and advancement of expenses under this Article.
Procedures; Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings; Remedies
     (a) To obtain indemnification under this Article, an Eligible Person shall submit to the Secretary of the Corporation a written request, including such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the Eligible Person and reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the Eligible Person is entitled to indemnification (the "Supporting Documentation"). The determination of the Eligible Person's entitlement to indemnification shall be made not later than sixty (60) days after receipt by the Corporation of the written request together with the Supporting Documentation. The Secretary of the Corporation shall, promptly upon receipt of such request, advise the Board in writing of the Eligible Person's request.
     (b) An Eligible Person's entitlement to indemnification under this Article shall be determined in one of the following methods, such method to be selected by the Board of Directors, regardless of whether there are any Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined): (i) by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, if they constitute a quorum of the Board; (ii) by a written opinion of Special Counsel (as hereinafter defined) if (A) a Change in Control shall have occurred and the Eligible Person so requests or (B) a quorum of the Board consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, a majority of such Disinterested Directors so directs; (iii) by the shareholders of the Corporation (but only if a majority of the Disinterested Directors, if they constitute a quorum of the Board, presents the issue of entitlement to the shareholders for their determination); or (iv) as provided in subsection (d).
     (c) In the event of the determination of entitlement is to be made by Special Counsel, a majority of the Disinterested Directors shall select the Special Counsel, but only Special Counsel to which the Eligible Person does not reasonably object; provided, however, that if a Change in
 
Control shall have occurred, the Eligible Person shall select such Special Counsel, but only Special Counsel to which a majority of the Disinterested Directors does not reasonably object.
     (d) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article, if a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Eligible Person shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification (with respect to actions or failures to act occurring prior to such Change in Control) upon submission of a request for indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation in accordance with subsection (a), and thereafter the Corporation shall have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in reaching a contrary determination. In any event, if the person or persons empowered under subsection (c) to determine entitlement shall not have been appointed or shall not have made a determination within sixty (60) days after receipt by the Corporation of the request therefor together with the Supporting Documentation, the Eligible Person shall be deemed to be, and shall be, entitled to indemnification and advancement of expenses unless (i) the Eligible Person misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (ii) such indemnification is prohibited by law. The termination of any Proceeding or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, adversely affect the right of an Eligible Person to indemnification or create a presumption that the Eligible Person did not act in good faith and in a manner which the Eligible Person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, that the Eligible Person had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
nolo contendere
     (e) In the event that a determination is made that the Eligible Person is not entitled to indemnification (i) the Eligible Person shall be entitled to seek an adjudication of his or her entitlement to such indemnification either, at the Eligible Person's sole option, in (A) an appropriate court of the state of Indiana or any other court of competent jurisdiction or (B) an arbitration to be conducted in Indianapolis, Indiana, by a single arbitrator pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association; (ii) in any such judicial proceeding or arbitration the Eligible Person shall not be prejudiced by reason of the prior determination pursuant to this Section 6.4; and (iii) if a Change in Control shall have occurred, in any such judicial proceeding or arbitration the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the Eligible Person is not entitled to indemnification but only with respect to actions or failures to act occurring prior to such Change in Control.
     (f) If a determination shall have been made or deemed to have been made that the Eligible Person is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be obligated to pay the amounts incurred by the Eligible Person within ten (10) days after such determination has been made or deemed to have been made and shall be conclusively bound by such determination unless (i) the Eligible Person misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (ii) such indemnification is prohibited by law. In the event that (A) any advancement of expenses is not timely made pursuant to Section 6.3 or (B) payment of indemnification is not made within ten (10) days after a determination of entitlement to indemnification has been made, the Eligible Person shall be entitled to seek judicial enforcement of the Corporation's obligation, to pay to the Eligible Person such advancement of expenses or indemnification. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation may bring an action, in an appropriate court in the State of Indiana or any other court of competent jurisdiction, contesting the right of the Eligible Person to receive
 
indemnification hereunder due to the occurrence of an event described in clause (i) or (ii) of this subsection (f) (a "Disqualifying Event"); provided, however, that in any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving the occurrence of such Disqualifying Event.
     (g) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 6.4 that the procedures and presumptions of this Article are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Corporation is bound by the provisions of this Article.
     (h) In the event that the Eligible Person seeks a judicial adjudication of or an award in arbitration to enforce his or her rights under, or to recover damages for breach of this Article, the Eligible Person shall be entitled to recover from the Corporation, and shall be indemnified by the Corporation, against, any expenses actually and reasonably incurred by the Eligible Person if the Eligible Person prevails in such judicial adjudication or arbitration. If it shall be determined in such judicial adjudication or arbitration that the Eligible Person is entitled to receive part but not all of the indemnification or advancement of expenses sought, the expenses incurred by the Eligible Person in connection with such judicial adjudication or arbitration shall be prorated accordingly.
     SECTION 6.5. . For purposes of this Article:
Certain Definitions
     (a) "Change in Control" means any of the following events: (i) the acquisition by any "person," as that term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), other than (A) the Corporation, (B) any subsidiary of the Corporation, (C) any employee benefit plan or employee stock plan of the Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation or any trustee or fiduciary with respect to any such plan when acting in that capacity, or (D) Lilly Endowment, Inc., of "beneficial ownership" as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the 1934 Act, directly or indirectly, of 15 percent or more of the shares of the Corporation's capital stock the holders of which have general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the Board (or which would have such voting power but for the application of IC 23-1-42-1 through IC 23-1-42-11) ("Voting Stock"); (ii) the first day on which less than two-thirds of the total membership of the Board shall be Continuing Directors (as such term is defined in Article 13.(f) of the Articles of Incorporation); (iii) consummation of a merger, share exchange, or consolidation of the Corporation (a "Transaction"), other than a Transaction which would result in the Voting Stock of the Corporation outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50 percent of the Voting Stock of the Corporation or such surviving entity immediately after such Transaction; or (iv) approval by the shareholders of the Corporation of a complete liquidation of the Corporation or a sale of disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the Corporation.
     (b) "Disinterested Director" means a Director who is not or was not a party to the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by the Eligible Person.
     (c) "Special Counsel" means a law firm or a member of a law firm that neither presently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification under this Article. In addition, any person who, under
 
applicable standards of professional conduct, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the Eligible Person in an action to determine the Eligible Person's rights under this Article may not act as Special Counsel.
     SECTION 6.6. . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Article, the Corporation may, consistent with the provisions of applicable law, indemnify any person other than a director, officer or employee of the Corporation who is or was an agent of the Corporation and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed Proceeding by reasons of the fact that such person is or was an agent of the Corporation or, at the request of the Corporation, a director, officer, partner, member, manager, employee, fiduciary or agent of a Covered Entity against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such Proceeding. The Corporation may also advance expenses incurred by such person in connection with any such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of applicable law.
Indemnification of Agents
     SECTION 6.7. . Neither the amendment or repeal of, nor the adoption of a provision inconsistent with, any provision of this Article shall adversely affect the rights of any Eligible Person under this Article (i) with respect to any Proceeding commenced or threatened prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption of an inconsistent provision or (ii) after the occurrence of a Change in Control, with respect to any Proceeding arising out of any action or omission occurring prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption of an inconsistent provision, in either case without the written consent of such Eligible Person.
Effect of Amendment or Repeal
     SECTION 6.8. . If any of this Article shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article (including, without limitation, all portions of any Section of this Article containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (b) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article (including, without limitation, all portions of any Section of this Article containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
Severability
 
     SECTION 7.0. . The Seal of the Corporation shall consist of a circular disk around the circumference of which shall appear the words:
Corporate Seal
and across the center thereof the words:
     SECTION 7.1. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January in each year and shall end on the thirty-first day of the following December.
Fiscal Year
     SECTION 7.2. . These By-laws may be amended or repealed and new By-laws may be adopted by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the actual number of directors elected and qualified at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors, provided that: (a) the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting states in effect that consideration is to be given at such meeting to the amendment or repeal of the By-laws or the adoption of new By-laws; (b) no provision of these By-laws incorporating a provision of Articles 9, 13 or 14 of the Articles of Incorporation may be amended except in a manner consistent with those Articles as they may be amended in compliance with the requirements stated therein; and (c) any amendment to Articles I and VI of these By-laws shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of (i) the actual number of directors elected and qualified, and (ii) the Continuing Directors, as defined in Article 13.(f) of the Articles of Incorporation.
Amendment of By-laws

 
Exhibit 99.3
(As amended and restated through April 21, 2008)
     1. The name of the Corporation shall be
     2. The purposes for which the Corporation is formed are to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the Indiana Business Corporation Law.
     3. The period during which the Corporation is to continue as a corporation is perpetual.
     4. The total number of shares which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 3,205,000,000 shares, consisting of 3,200,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 5,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock. The Corporation's shares do not have any par or stated value, except that, solely for the purpose of any statute or regulation imposing any tax or fee based upon the capitalization of the Corporation, each of the Corporation's shares shall be deemed to have a par value of $0.01 per share.
     5. The following provisions shall apply to the Corporation's shares:
     (a) The Corporation shall have the power to acquire (by purchase, redemption, or otherwise), hold, own, pledge, sell, transfer, assign, reissue, cancel, or otherwise dispose of the shares of the Corporation in the manner and to the extent now or hereafter permitted by the laws of the State of Indiana (but such power shall not imply an obligation on the part of the owner or holder of any share to sell or otherwise transfer such share to the Corporation), including the power to purchase, redeem, or otherwise acquire the Corporation's own shares, directly or indirectly, and without pro rata treatment of the owners or holders of any class or series of shares, unless, after giving effect thereto, the Corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business or the Corporation's total assets would be less than its total liabilities (and without regard to any amounts that would be needed, if the Corporation were to be dissolved at the time of the purchase, redemption, or other acquisition, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareholders whose preferential rights are superior to those of the holders of the shares of the Corporation being purchased, redeemed, or otherwise acquired, unless otherwise expressly provided with respect to a series of Preferred Stock). Shares of the Corporation purchased, redeemed, or otherwise acquired by it shall constitute authorized but unissued shares, unless prior to any such purchase, redemption, or other acquisition, or within thirty (30) days thereafter, the Board
 
of Directors adopts a resolution providing that such shares constitute authorized and issued but not outstanding shares.
     (b) Preferred Stock of any series that has been redeemed (whether through the operation of a retirement or sinking fund or otherwise) or purchased by the Corporation, or which, if convertible, have been converted into shares of the Corporation of any other class or series, may be reissued as a part of such series or of any other series of Preferred Stock, subject to such limitations (if any) as may be fixed by the Board of Directors with respect to such series of Preferred Stock in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 of these Amended Articles of Incorporation.
     (c) The Board of Directors of the Corporation may dispose of, issue, and sell shares in accordance with, and in such amounts as may be permitted by, the laws of the State of Indiana and the provisions of these Amended Articles of Incorporation and for such consideration, at such price or prices, at such time or times and upon such terms and conditions (including the privilege of selectively repurchasing the same) as the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall determine, without the authorization or approval by any shareholders of the Corporation. Shares may be disposed of, issued, and sold to such persons, firms, or corporations as the Board of Directors may determine, without any preemptive or other right on the part of the owners or holders of other shares of the Corporation of any class or kind to acquire such shares by reason of their ownership of such other shares.
     6. The following provisions shall apply to the Common Stock:
     (a) Except as otherwise provided by the Indiana Business Corporation Law and subject to such shareholder disclosure and recognition procedures (which may include voting prohibition sanctions) as the Corporation may by action of its Board of Directors establish, shares of Common Stock shall have unlimited voting rights and each outstanding share of Common Stock shall, when validly issued by the Corporation, entitle the record holder thereof to one vote at all shareholders' meetings on all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the Corporation.
     (b) Shares of Common Stock shall be equal in every respect insofar as their relationship to the Corporation is concerned, but such equality of rights shall not imply equality of treatment as to redemption or other acquisition of shares by the Corporation. Subject to the rights of the holders of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to share ratably in such dividends or other distributions (other than purchases, redemptions, or other acquisitions of shares by the Corporation), if any, as are declared and paid from time to time on the Common Stock at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
     (c) In the event of any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Corporation, either voluntary or involuntary, after payment shall have been made to the holders of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock of the full amount to which they shall be entitled, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled, to the exclusion of the holders of the Preferred Stock of any and all series, to share, ratably according to the
 
number of shares of Common Stock held by them, in all remaining assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its shareholders.
     7. The Board of Directors is hereby expressly authorized to provide, out of the unissued shares of Preferred Stock, for one or more series of Preferred Stock. Before any shares of any such series are issued, the Board of Directors shall fix, and hereby is expressly empowered to fix, by the adoption and filing in accordance with the Indiana Business Corporation Law, of an amendment or amendments to these Amended Articles of Incorporation, the terms of such Preferred Stock or series of Preferred Stock, including the following:
     (a) the designation of such series, the number of shares to constitute such series and the stated value thereof if different from the par value thereof;
     (b) whether the shares of such series shall have voting rights, in addition to any voting rights provided by law, and, if so, the terms of such voting rights, which may be general or limited and may include the right, under specified circumstances, to elect additional directors;
     (c) the dividends, if any, payable on such series, whether any such dividends shall be cumulative, and, if so, from what dates, the conditions and dates upon which such dividends shall be payable, the preference or relation which such dividends shall bear to the dividends payable on any shares of stock of any other class or any other series of Preferred Stock;
     (d) whether the shares of such series shall be subject to redemption by the Corporation and, if so, the times, prices and other conditions of such redemption;
     (e) the amount or amounts payable upon shares of such series upon, and the rights of the holders of such series in, the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or upon any distribution of the assets, of the Corporation;
     (f) whether the shares of such series shall be subject to the operation of a retirement or sinking fund and, if so, the extent to and manner in which any such retirement or sinking fund shall be applied to the purchase or redemption of the shares of such series for retirement or other corporate purposes and the terms and provisions relative to the operation thereof;
     (g) whether the shares of such series shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of stock of any other class or any other series of Preferred Stock or any other securities (whether or not issued by the Corporation) and, if so, the price or prices or the rate or rates of conversion or exchange and the method, if any, of adjusting the same, and any other terms and conditions of conversion or exchange;
     (h) the limitations and restrictions, if any, to be effective while any shares of such series are outstanding upon the payment of dividends or the making of other distributions on, and upon the purchase, redemption or other acquisition by the Corporation of, the Common Stock or shares of stock of any other class or any other series of Preferred Stock;
 
     (i) the conditions or restrictions, if any, upon the creation of indebtedness of the Corporation or upon the issue of any additional stock, including additional shares of such series or of any other series of Preferred Stock or of any other class of stock; and
     (j) any other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and any qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof.
Except to the extent otherwise expressly provided in these Amended Articles of Incorporation or required by law (i) no share of Preferred Stock shall have any voting rights other than those which shall be fixed by the Board of Directors pursuant to this Article 7 and (ii) no share of Common Stock shall have any voting rights with respect to any amendment to the terms of any series of Preferred Stock; , that in the case of this clause (ii) the terms of such series of Preferred Stock, as so amended, could have been established without any vote of any shares of Common Stock.
provided however
     8. The Corporation shall have the power to declare and pay dividends or other distributions upon the issued and outstanding shares of the Corporation, subject to the limitation that a dividend or other distribution may not be made if, after giving it effect, the Corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business or the Corporation's total assets would be less than its total liabilities (and without regard to any amounts that would be needed, if the Corporation were to be dissolved at the time of the dividend or other distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareholders whose preferential rights are superior to those of the holders of shares receiving the dividend or other distribution, unless otherwise expressly provided with respect to any outstanding series of Preferred Stock). The Corporation shall have the power to issue shares of one class or series as a share dividend or other distribution in respect of that class or series or one or more other classes or series.
     9. The following provisions are inserted for the management of the business and for the conduct of the affairs of the Corporation, and it is expressly provided that the same are intended to be in furtherance and not in limitation or exclusion of the powers conferred by statute:
     (a) The number of directors of the Corporation, exclusive of directors who may be elected by the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock pursuant to Article 7(b) (the "Preferred Stock Directors"), shall not be less than nine, the exact number to be fixed from time to time solely by resolution of the Board of Directors, acting by not less than a majority of the directors then in office.
     (b) The Board of Directors (exclusive of Preferred Stock Directors) shall be divided into three classes, with the term of office of one class expiring each year. At the annual meeting of shareholders in 1985, five directors of the first class shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the 1986 annual meeting, five directors of the second class shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the 1987 annual meeting, and six directors of the third class shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the
 
1988 annual meeting. Commencing with the annual meeting of shareholders in 1986, each class of directors whose term shall then expire shall be elected to hold office for a three-year term. In the case of any vacancy on the Board of Directors, including a vacancy created by an increase in the number of directors, the vacancy shall be filled by election of the Board of Directors with the director so elected to serve for the remainder of the term of the director being replaced or, in the case of an additional director, for the remainder of the term of the class to which the director has been assigned. All directors shall continue in office until the election and qualification of their respective successors in office. When the number of directors is changed, any newly created directorships or any decrease in directorships shall be so assigned among the classes by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, as to make all classes as nearly equal in number as possible. No decrease in the number of directors shall have the effect of shortening the term of any incumbent director. Election of directors need not be by written ballot unless the By-laws so provide.
     (c) Any director or directors (exclusive of Preferred Stock Directors) may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of all the outstanding shares of Voting Stock (as defined in Article 13 hereof), voting together as a single class.
     (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of these Amended Articles of Incorporation or of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote, but in addition to any affirmative vote of the holders of any particular class of Voting Stock required by law or these Amended Articles of Incorporation, the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of all the outstanding shares of Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend or repeal this Article 9.
     10. The Board of Directors of the Corporation is exclusively authorized (a) to adopt, repeal, alter or amend the By-laws of the Corporation by the vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors and (b) to adopt any By-laws which the Board of Directors may deem necessary or desirable for the efficient conduct of the affairs of the Corporation, including, without limitation, provisions governing the conduct of, and the matters which may properly be brought before, meetings of the shareholders and provisions specifying the manner and extent to which prior notice shall be given of the submission of proposals to be submitted at any meeting of shareholders or of nominations of elections of directors to be held at any such meeting.
     11. The Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law now or hereafter in effect, indemnify any person who is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation (an "Eligible Person") and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed investigation, claim, action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including, without limitation, any action, suit or proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor) (a "Proceeding") by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee, partner, member, manager, trustee, fiduciary or agent of another corporation,
 
partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, any employee benefit plan), against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines or penalties (including excise taxes assessed with respect to an employee benefit plan) and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such Eligible Person in connection with such Proceeding; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not apply to a Proceeding commenced by an Eligible Person except to the extent provided otherwise in the Corporation's By-laws or an agreement with an Eligible Person. The Corporation may establish provisions supplemental to or in furtherance of the provisions of this Article 11, including, but not limited to, provisions concerning the determination of any Eligible Person to indemnification, mandatory or permissive advancement of expenses to an Eligible Person incurred in connection with a Proceeding, the effect of any change in control of the Corporation on indemnification and advancement of expenses and the funding or other payment of amounts necessary to effect indemnification and advancement of expenses, in the By-laws of the Corporation or in agreements with any Eligible Person.
     12. Except as otherwise expressly provided for in these Amended Articles of Incorporation, the Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter or repeal any provision contained in these Amended Articles of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by law, and all rights conferred upon shareholders herein are subject to this reservation.
     13. In addition to all other requirements imposed by law and these Amended Articles and except as otherwise expressly provided in paragraph (c) of this Article 13, none of the actions or transactions listed below shall be effected by the Corporation, or approved by the Corporation as a shareholder of any majority-owned subsidiary of the Corporation if, as of the record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to vote thereon, any Related Person (as hereinafter defined) exists, unless the applicable requirements of paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this Article 13 are satisfied.
     (a) The actions or transactions within the scope of this Article 13 are as follows:
     (i) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries into or with such Related Person;
     (ii) any sale, lease, exchange, or other disposition of all or any substantial part of the assets of the Corporation or any of its majority-owned subsidiaries to or with such Related Person;
     (iii) the issuance or delivery of any Voting Stock (as hereinafter defined) or of voting securities of any of the Corporation's majority-owned subsidiaries to such Related Person in exchange for cash, other assets or securities, or a combination thereof;
     (iv) any voluntary dissolution or liquidation of the Corporation;
     (v) any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), or recapitalization of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the
 
Corporation with any of its subsidiaries, or any other transaction (whether or not with or otherwise involving a Related Person) that has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate share of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, or any securities convertible into capital stock of the Corporation or into equity securities of any subsidiary, that is beneficially owned by any Related Person; or
     (vi) any agreement, contract, or other arrangement providing for any one or more of the actions specified in the foregoing clauses (i) through (v).
     (b) The actions and transactions described in paragraph (a) of this Article 13 shall have been authorized by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of all of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock, voting together as a single class.
     (c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this Article 13, the 80% voting requirement shall not be applicable if any action or transaction specified in paragraph (a) is approved by the Corporation's Board of Directors and by a majority of the Continuing Directors (as hereinafter defined).
     (d) Unless approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors, after becoming a Related Person and prior to consummation of such action or transaction.
     (i) the Related Person shall not have acquired from the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries any newly issued or treasury shares of capital stock or any newly issued securities convertible into capital stock of the Corporation or any of its majority-owned subsidiaries, directly or indirectly (except upon conversion of convertible securities acquired by it prior to becoming a Related Person or as a result of a pro rata stock dividend or stock split or other distribution of stock to all shareholders pro rata);
     (ii) such Related Person shall not have received the benefit directly or indirectly (except proportionately as a shareholder) of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges, or other financial assistance or tax credits provided by the Corporation or any of its majority-owned subsidiaries, or made any major changes in the Corporation's or any of its majority-owned subsidiaries' businesses or capital structures or reduced the current rate of dividends payable on the Corporation's capital stock below the rate in effect immediately prior to the time such Related Person became a Related Person; and
     (iii) such Related Person shall have taken all required actions within its power to ensure that the Corporation's Board of Directors included representation by Continuing Directors at least proportionate to the voting power of the shareholdings of Voting Stock of the Corporation's Remaining Public Shareholders (as hereinafter defined), with a Continuing Director to occupy an additional Board position if a fractional right to a director results and, in any event, with at least one Continuing Director to serve on the Board so long as there are any Remaining Public Shareholders.
 
     (e) A proxy statement responsive to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether or not the Corporation is then subject to such requirements, shall be mailed to the shareholders of the Corporation for the purpose of soliciting shareholder approval of such action or transaction and shall contain at the front thereof, in a prominent place, any recommendations as to the advisability or inadvisability of the action or transaction which the Continuing Directors may choose to state and, if deemed advisable by a majority of the Continuing Directors, the opinion of an investment banking firm selected by a majority of the Continuing Directors as to the fairness (or not) of the terms of the action or transaction from a financial point of view to the Remaining Public Shareholders, such investment banking firm to be paid a reasonable fee for its services by the Corporation. The requirements of this paragraph (e) shall not apply to any such action or transaction which is approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors.
     (f) For the purpose of this Article 13
     (i) the term "Related Person" shall mean any other corporation, person, or entity which beneficially owns or controls, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock, and any Affiliate or Associate (as those terms are defined in the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of a Related Person; that the term Related Person shall not include (a) the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, (b) any profit-sharing, employee stock ownership or other employee benefit plan of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation or any trustee of or fiduciary with respect to any such plan when acting in such capacity, or (c) Lilly Endowment, Inc.; and that no corporation, person, or entity shall be deemed to be a Related Person solely by reason of being an Affiliate or Associate of Lilly Endowment, Inc.;
provided, however,
further provided,
     (ii) a Related Person shall be deemed to own or control, directly or indirectly, any outstanding shares of Voting Stock owned by it or any Affiliate or Associate of record or beneficially, including without limitation shares
     a. which it has the right to acquire pursuant to any agreement, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants, or options, or otherwise or
     b. which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly (including shares deemed owned through application of clause a. above), by any other corporation, person, or other entity with which it or its Affiliate or Associate has any agreement, arrangement, or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting, or disposing of Voting Stock, or which is its Affiliate (other than the Corporation) or Associate (other than the Corporation);
     (iii) the term "Voting Stock" shall mean all shares of any class of capital
 
stock of the Corporation which are entitled to vote generally in the election of directors;
     (iv) the term "Continuing Director" shall mean a director who is not an Affiliate or Associate or representative of a Related Person and who was a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation immediately prior to the time that any Related Person involved in the proposed action or transaction became a Related Person or a director who is not an Affiliate or Associate or representative of a Related Person and who was nominated by a majority of the remaining Continuing Directors; and
     (v) the term "Remaining Public Shareholders" shall mean the holders of the Corporation's capital stock other than the Related Person.
     (g) A majority of the Continuing Directors of the Corporation shall have the power and duty to determine for the purposes of this Article 13, on the basis of information then known to the Continuing Directors, whether (i) any Related Person exists or is an Affiliate or an Associate of another and (ii) any proposed sale, lease, exchange, or other disposition of part of the assets of the Corporation or any majority-owned subsidiary involves a substantial part of the assets of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries. Any such determination by the Continuing Directors shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes.
     (h) Nothing contained in this Article 13 shall be construed to relieve any Related Person or any Affiliate or Associate of any Related Person from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
     (i) The fact that any action or transaction complies with the provisions of this Article 13 shall not be construed to waive or satisfy any other requirement of law or these Amended Articles of Incorporation or to impose any fiduciary duty, obligation, or responsibility on the Board of Directors or any member thereof, to approve such action or transaction or recommend its adoption or approval to the shareholders of the Corporation, nor shall such compliance limit, prohibit, or otherwise restrict in any manner the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, with respect to evaluations of or actions and responses taken with respect to such action or transaction. The Board of Directors of the Corporation, when evaluating any actions or transactions described in paragraph (a) of this Article 13, shall, in connection with the exercise of its judgment in determining what is in the best interests of the Corporation and its shareholders, give due consideration to all relevant factors, including without limitation the social and economic effects on the employees, customers, suppliers, and other constituents of the Corporation and its subsidiaries and on the communities in which the Corporation and its subsidiaries operate or are located.
     (j) Notwithstanding any other provision of these Amended Articles of Incorporation or of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote, but in addition to any affirmative vote of the holders of any particular class of Voting Stock required by law or these Amended Articles of Incorporation, the affirmative vote of the
 
holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of all the outstanding shares of Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend, or repeal this Article 13.
     14. A total of 1,500,000 shares of the 5,000,000 shares of authorized Preferred Stock are designated as "Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the "Series B Preferred Stock"). Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; provided that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Series B Preferred Stock. The Series B Preferred Stock shall possess the rights, preferences, qualifications, limitations, and restrictions set forth below:
     (a) The holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall have the following rights to dividends and distributions:
     (i) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock (or any similar stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series B Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock, without par value (the "Common Stock"), of the Corporation, and of any other junior stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the tenth day of March, June, September and December in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series B Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $10 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non- cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series B Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the
 
denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     (ii) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series B Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $10 per share on the Series B Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
     (iii) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series B Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
     (b) The holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
     (i) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series B Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of
 
which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     (ii) Except as otherwise provided herein, in any other Articles of Amendment creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
     (iii) Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law, holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
     (c) The Corporation shall be subject to the following restrictions:
     (i) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series B Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
     a. declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series B Preferred Stock;
     b. declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series B Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series B Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
     c. redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series B Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series B Preferred Stock; or
     d. redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series B Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series B Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the
 
Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
     (ii) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (i) of this Article 14(c), purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
     (d) Any shares of Series B Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Articles of Incorporation, or in any other Articles of Amendment creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
     (e) Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (i) to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series B Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall have received the greater of (a) $1000 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment, or (b) an aggregate amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1000 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock, or (ii) to the holders of shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series B Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Series B Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the proviso in clause (i) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     (f) In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of Series B Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged
 
or changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     (g) The shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
     (h) The Series B Preferred Stock shall rank, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, junior to all series of any other class of the Corporation's Preferred Stock.
     (i) The Amended Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series B Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class.
     (j) In the event that the Rights Agreement dated as of July 20, 1998 between the Corporation and First Chicago Trust Company of New York, as Rights Agent (or any successor Rights Agent) is terminated or expires prior to the issuance of any shares of Series B Preferred Stock, all shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth in the Articles of Incorporation or in any other Articles of Amendment creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
     15. Subject to the rights of the holders of preferred stock to elect any directors voting separately as a class or series, at each annual meeting of shareholders, the directors to be elected at the meeting shall be chosen by the majority of the votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election at the meeting, provided a quorum is present; provided, however, that if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, then directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote, provided a quorum is present. For purposes of this Article 15, a "majority of votes cast" shall mean that the number of votes cast "for" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director's election.


