FILE:LLY/LLY-8K-20091014092241.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
On October 14, 2009, Eli Lilly and Company announced the sale of its Tippecanoe Laboratories manufacturing facility to Evonik Industries AG (Evonik), one of the worlds largest chemical companies. The manufacturing site, located in Lafayette, Indiana, will remain in operation with a focus on producing high-quality active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) and specialty chemical and animal health products. In connection with the sale of the site, the two companies have also signed a nine-year supply and services agreement, whereby Evonik will manufacture final and intermediate step API for certain Lilly human and animal health products (with declining volume commitments over the contract period). Approximately 700 current Lilly employees, representing all full-time non-contracted workers dedicated to the site, will be offered employment with Evonik. The sale of Tippecanoe Laboratories is the culmination of Lillys strategic review of the site that was announced in July 2008 and consider ed various options for the site including continuing operations with a revised site mission, exploring opportunities to sell the facility, and ceasing operations altogether. The decision to sell the site is based upon a projected decline in utilization of the site due to several factors, including upcoming patent expirations on certain medicines made at the site, Lillys strategic decision to purchase, rather than manufacture, many late-stage chemical intermediates, and the evolution of the Lilly pipeline toward more biotechnology medicines. Subject to certain closing conditions, the companies plan for the transaction to close by the end of 2009. Upon closing, Evonik will assume control of the Tippecanoe site and its operations. As a result of this transaction, Lilly will incur charges in the third quarter of 2009 of $.23 per share after tax, comprised of pre-tax non-cash asset impairment charges and other charges of $355 million, and $38 million in severance related charges, substanti ally all of which is expected to be paid in cash by early 2010.
Item 2.06 Material Impairments.
Please see Item 2.05 above.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


