FILE:LLY/LLY-8K-20101021063027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 21, 2010, we issued a press release announcing our results of operations for the quarter and ninemonth period ended September 30, 2010, including, among other things, an income statement for those periods. In addition, on the same day we held a teleconference for analysts and media to discuss those results. The teleconference was web cast on our web site. The press release and related financial statements are attached to this Form 8-K as .
Exhibit 99
For the third quarter and first nine months of 2010, the press release attached as Exhibit 99 includes a non-GAAP presentation of our results. We use non-GAAP financial measures, such as non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share, that differ from financial statements reported in conformity to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In today's press release, we used non-GAAP financial measures in comparing the financial results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2010 with the same periods of 2009. Those measures include operating income, income before taxes, income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, and earnings per share adjusted to exclude the effect of the following items (described in more detail in the press release attached as Exhibit 99):
In addition, we quantified the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates in the third quarter of 2010 compared with the same period of 2009, as well as the impact of U.S. health care reform on our third quarter 2010 results.
In today's press release, we provided financial expectations for 2010. In addition to providing earnings per share expectations on a GAAP basis, we provided earnings per share expectations on a non-GAAP basis. In order to provide additional insight into the earnings-per-share growth comparison between 2009 results and expected 2010 results, we adjusted earnings per share for the items described above in the first three quarters of 2010 and the second and third quarters 2009, as well as for the items described below for the fourth quarter of 2009.
We also quantified the expected impact of U.S. health care reform on our full year 2010 results.
The items that we exclude when we provide non-GAAP results or non-GAAP expectations are typically highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that could have a substantial impact on our reported operations for a period. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors. Among other things, they may help investors evaluate our
 
ongoing operations. They can assist in making meaningful period-over-period comparisons and in identifying operating trends that would otherwise be masked or distorted by the items subject to the adjustments. Management uses these non-GAAP measures internally to evaluate the performance of the business, including to allocate resources and to evaluate results relative to incentive compensation targets.
Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. For the reasons described above for use of non-GAAP measures, our prospective earnings guidance is subject to adjustment for certain future matters, similar to those identified above, as to which prospective quantification generally is not feasible.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the press release attached as Exhibit 99 are considered furnished to the Commission and are not deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 5.03.
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; change in Fiscal Year
Effective October 18, 2010, the Company amended its Bylaws. The following is a summary of the amendments:
Section 1.8. Notice of Shareholder Business.
 
Section 1.9. Notice of Shareholder Nominees.
Article VI. Indemnification
 
The foregoing summary is qualified by reference to the amended Bylaws, which are filed with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 3.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3
 
 
 
 
     SECTION 1.0. . The annual meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as properly may come before the meeting shall be held on the third Monday in April in each year; provided, however, that for a particular year the Board of Directors may designate another date not later than June 30 of that year by resolution adopted by not less than a majority of the directors then in office. Failure to hold an annual meeting of the shareholders at such designated time shall not affect otherwise valid corporate acts or work a forfeiture or dissolution of the Corporation.
Annual Meetings
     SECTION 1.1. . Special meetings of the shareholders may be called at any time by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Special Meetings
     SECTION 1.2. . Each meeting of the shareholders shall be held at such time of day and place, either within or without the State of Indiana, as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. Each adjourned meeting of the shareholders shall be held at such time and place as may be provided in the motion for adjournment. The chairman of each meeting shall have sole authority to decide questions relating to the conduct of that meeting.
Time, Place, and Conduct of Meetings
     SECTION 1.3. . The Secretary shall cause a written or printed notice of the place, day and hour and the purpose or purposes of each meeting of the shareholders to be delivered or mailed (which may include by facsimile or other form of electronic communication) at least ten (10) but not more than sixty (60) days prior to the meeting, to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting, at the shareholder's address as the same appears on the records maintained by the Corporation. Notice of any such shareholders meeting may be waived by any shareholder by delivering a written waiver to the Secretary before or after such meeting. Attendance at any meeting in person or by proxy when the instrument of proxy sets forth in reasonable detail the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall constitute a waiver of notice thereof. Notice of any adjourned meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation shall not be required to be given unless otherwise required by statute.
Notice of Meetings
     SECTION 1.4. . At any meeting of the shareholders a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on a matter at such meeting, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for action on that matter. In the absence of a quorum, the chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote present in
Quorum
 
person or by proxy, or, if no shareholder entitled to vote is present in person or by proxy, any officer entitled to preside at or act as Secretary of such meeting, may adjourn such meeting from time to time, until a quorum shall be present. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum may be present any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
     SECTION 1.5. . Except as otherwise provided by statute or by the Articles of Incorporation, at each meeting of the shareholders each holder of shares entitled to vote shall have the right to one vote for each share standing in the shareholder's name on the books of the Corporation on the record date fixed for the meeting under Section 1.7. Each shareholder entitled to vote shall be entitled to vote in person or by proxy executed in writing (which shall include facsimile) or transmitted by electronic submission by the shareholder or a duly authorized attorney in fact. The vote of shareholders approving any matter to which the provisions of Article 9(c) or 9(d) or Article 13 of the Articles of Incorporation or of a statute are applicable shall require the percentage of affirmative vote therein specified. All other matters, except the election of directors, shall require that the votes cast in favor of the matter exceed the votes cast opposing the matter at a meeting at which a quorum is present. In the event that more than one group of shares is entitled to vote as a separate voting group, the vote of each group shall be considered and decided separately.
Voting
     SECTION 1.6. . The Secretary shall make or cause to be made, after a record date for a meeting of shareholders has been fixed under Section 1.7 and at least five (5) days before such meeting, a complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of each such shareholder and the number of shares so entitled to vote held by each which list shall be on file at the principal office of the Corporation and subject to inspection by any shareholder entitled to vote at the meeting. Such list shall be produced and kept open at the time and place of the meeting and subject to the inspection of any such shareholder during the holding of such meeting or any adjournment. Except as otherwise required by law, such list shall be the only evidence as to who are the shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of the shareholders. In the event that more than one group of shares is entitled to vote as a separate voting group at the meeting, there shall be a separate listing of the shareholders of each group.
Voting Lists
     SECTION 1.7. For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend, or in order to make a determination of shareholders for any other proper purpose, the Board of Directors shall fix in advance a date as the record date for any such determination of shareholders, not more than seventy (70) days prior to the date on which the particular action requiring this determination of shareholders is to be taken. When a determination of shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders has been made as provided in this section, the determination shall, to the extent permitted by law, apply to any adjournment thereof.
Fixing of Record Date.
 
     SECTION 1.8. .
Notice of Shareholder Business
     (a) At an annual meeting of the shareholders, the only items of business that shall be conducted are those which are proper subjects for action by the shareholders under Indiana law and which have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (i) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a shareholder. Except for proposals properly made in accordance with Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (as so amended and inclusive of such rules and regulations, the "Exchange Act"), and included in the notice of meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, the foregoing clause (iii) shall be the exclusive means for a shareholder to propose business to be brought before the meeting. For any item of business (other than nomination of a person for election as a director which is subject to Section 1.9) to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, the shareholder proposing the item of business (a "proposing shareholder") must (A) have beneficial ownership of the Corporation's common stock both at the time of giving the notice provided for in this Section 1.8 and at the time of the meeting, (B) be entitled to vote at the meeting, (C) have the legal right and authority to make the proposal for consideration at the meeting, (D) have given a notice which is timely as required by subsection (b) and in proper form as required by subsection (c), and (E) appear at the meeting in person or by a designated representative to present the item of business.
     (b) To be timely, a proposing shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than one hundred twenty (120) calendar days nor more than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days in advance of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement released to shareholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting of shareholders; provided, however, that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than thirty (30) days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, notice by the proposing shareholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the later of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days in advance of such annual meeting or ten (10) calendar days following the date on which public disclosure of the date of the meeting is first made. For purposes of this Section 1.8 and Section 1.9, "public disclosure" means disclosure in a press release reported by a national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14, or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. No adjournment of an annual meeting or announcement thereof shall commence a new time period for the giving of a timely notice as described above.
     (c) To be in proper form, a proposing shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth (i) the name and record address of the proposing shareholder(s); (ii) the class and number of the Corporation's shares which are beneficially owned by the proposing shareholder(s); (iii) a brief description of any derivative instrument (as defined in IND. CODE 23-1-20-6.5 as in effect on October 18, 2010) or other agreement, arrangement, or understanding (including any swaps, warrants, short positions, profits, interests, options, hedging transactions, or borrowed or loaned shares) with respect to the Corporation's shares, engaged in, directly or indirectly by the
 
proposing shareholder(s), where the purpose or effect of such instrument, agreement, arrangement or understanding is to increase or decrease such shareholders' ability to share in the profits derived from any increase in the value of the Corporation's shares, mitigate economic exposure to changes in value of the shares, and/or increase or decrease the voting power of such shareholder(s); and (iv) as to each item of business being proposed (A) a brief description of the business to be brought before the annual meeting; (B) the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting; (C) the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration); (D) any material interest of the proposing shareholder(s) in such business; (E) a brief description of all agreements, arrangements or understandings between or among the proposing shareholder(s) or between or among any proposing shareholder and any other person or entity in connection with such business; (F) a representation whether the proposing shareholder intends to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding shares required to approve the proposal and/or otherwise to solicit proxies from shareholders in support of the proposal; and (G) any other information relating to each such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filing required to be made in connection with the solicitation of proxies by each such person with respect to the proposed business to be brought by each such person before the annual meeting pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. For purposes of this Section 1.8 and Section 1.9, the term "beneficial ownership" shall have the meaning specified in IND. CODE 23-1-20-3.5 as in effect on October 18, 2010;
     (d) A proposing shareholder shall further update and supplement such notice, if necessary, so that the information provided or required to be provided in the notice shall be true, correct and complete in all material respects (i) as of the record date for the meeting and (ii) as of the date that is ten (10) business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment thereof. Such updates shall be delivered to or mailed and received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (A) in the case of the update required under subsection (i), not later than five (5) business days after the record date, and (B) in the case of the update required under subsection (ii), not later than seven (7) business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
     (e) No business shall be conducted at any annual meeting of shareholders except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.8. The chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section 1.8, and if the chairman should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies may have been solicited in respect of such business.
     (f) The requirements of this Section 1.8 shall apply to any item of business to be brought before an annual meeting of shareholders (other than the election of directors and any proposal properly made pursuant to Rule 14a-8 of the Exchange Act) regardless of whether the business is presented to shareholders directly at the meeting or by means of an independently financed proxy solicitation. The requirements of this Section 1.8 are included to provide the Corporation notice of a shareholder's intention to bring business before an annual meeting and shall not be
 
construed as imposing upon any shareholder the requirement to seek approval from the Corporation as a condition precedent to bringing any such business before an annual meeting.
     (g) At any special meeting of the shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 1.9. .
Notice of Shareholder Nominees
     (a) Only persons who are nominated by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or by shareholders in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.9 shall be eligible for election as Directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors in accordance with this Section 1.9 may be made (i) at or prior to a meeting of shareholders by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or by any nominating committee or person appointed by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, and (ii) at an annual meeting of shareholders or a special meeting of shareholders (but only if the election of Directors is a matter specified in the notice of special meeting) by any shareholder entitled to vote for the election of Directors at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.9 (a "nominating shareholder"). Such nominations shall be made pursuant to a notice which is timely as required by subsection (b) and in proper form as required by subsection (c) and any person proposed to be nominated (a "proposed nominee") must be eligible for election as required by subsection (e).
     (b) To be timely, a nominating shareholder's notice, if it relates to an annual meeting of shareholders, must be delivered to or mailed and received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than one hundred twenty (120) calendar days nor more than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days in advance of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement released to shareholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting of shareholders; provided, however, that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than thirty (30) days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, notice by the nominating shareholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the later of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days in advance of such annual meeting or ten (10) calendar days following the date on which public disclosure of the date of the meeting is first made. No adjournment of an annual meeting or announcement thereof shall commence a new time period for the giving of a timely notice as described above. If the notice relates to a special meeting of shareholders, it must be delivered to or mailed and received by the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) calendar days in advance of the date of the special meeting, or, if later, the tenth (10) calendar day after public disclosure of the date of the special meeting is made.
th
     (c) To be in proper form for purposes of this Section 1.9, a nominating shareholder's notice shall set forth: (i) the name and record address of the nominating shareholder(s), (ii) the class and number of the Corporation's shares which are beneficially owned by the nominating shareholder(s), (iii) a brief description of any derivative instrument (as defined in Section 1.8(c)(iii)) or any other agreement, arrangement, or understanding engaged in, directly or indirectly, by the nominating shareholder(s) with respect to the Corporation's shares, (iv) as to
 
each proposed nominee, (A) the proposed nominee's name, age, business address and residence address ; (B) the proposed nominee's principal occupation or employment; (C) the class and number of the Corporation's shares which are beneficially owned by the proposed nominee; (D) a brief description of any derivative instrument (as defined in Section 1.8(c)(iii)) or any other agreement, arrangement, or understanding engaged in, directly or indirectly, by the proposed nominee with respect to the Corporation's shares; (E) a brief description of all material agreements, arrangements, understandings or relationships, including all direct or indirect compensatory arrangements, between or among the proposed nominee, the nominating shareholder(s) and any of their associates or affiliates; and (F) any other information relating to the proposed nominee that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act (including without limitation the proposed nominee's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected).
     (d) A nominating shareholder shall further update and supplement such notice, if necessary, so that the information provided or required to be provided in the notice shall be true, correct and complete in all material respects (i) as of the record date for the meeting and (ii) as of the date that is ten (10) business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment thereof. Such updates shall be delivered to or mailed and received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (A) in the case of the update required under subsection (i), not later than five (5) business days after the record date, and (B) in the case of the update required under subsection (ii), not later than seven (7) business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
     (e) To be eligible as a director of the Corporation, a proposed nominee must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under paragraph (b) of this Section 1.9) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of the proposed nominee (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that the proposed nominee (i) is not and will not become a party to (A) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "voting commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (B) any voting commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (ii) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, and (iii) would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation.
     (f) The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information (i) as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or (ii) that could be
 
material to a reasonable shareholder's understanding of the independence or lack of independence of such proposed nominee.
     (g) No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.9. The chairman of the meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not so declared in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if the chairman should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such nomination may have been received by the Corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.9, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act with respect to the nomination of any director that is subject to this Section 1.9.
     SECTION 2.0. The property, affairs and business of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors.
General Powers.
     SECTION 2.1. The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be sixteen (16), which number may be either increased or diminished by resolution adopted by not less than a majority of the directors then in office; provided that the number may not be diminished below nine (9) and no reduction in number shall have the effect of shortening the term of any incumbent director. In the event that the holders of shares of preferred stock become entitled to elect two directors, the number of directors and the minimum number of directors shall be increased by two. Neither ownership of stock of the Corporation nor residence in the State of Indiana shall be required as a qualification for a director.
Number and Qualifications.
     SECTION 2.2. . The directors shall be divided into three classes as nearly equal in number as possible. Except as provided in Article 9 of the Articles of Incorporation fixing one, two, and three year terms for the initial classified board, each class of directors shall be elected for a term of three (3) years. In the event of vacancy, either by death, resignation, or removal of a director, or by reason of an increase in the number of directors, each replacement or new director shall serve for the balance of the term of the class of the director he or she succeeds or, in the event of an increase in the number of directors, of the class to which he or she is assigned. All directors elected for a term shall continue in office until the election and qualification of their respective successors, their death, their resignation in accordance with Section 2.6, their removal in accordance with Section 2.7, or if there has been a reduction in the number of directors and no successor is to be elected, until the end of the term. The classes and terms of the directors shall not be governed by IND. CODE 23-1-33-6(c).
Classes of Directors and Terms
 
     SECTION 2.3. Subject to the rights of the holders of preferred stock to elect any directors voting separately as a class or series, at each annual meeting of shareholders, the directors to be elected at the meeting shall be chosen by the majority of the votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election at the meeting, provided a quorum is present; provided, however, that if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, then directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote, provided a quorum is present. For purposes of this Section 2.3, a "majority of votes cast" shall mean that the number of votes cast "for" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director's election. If a nominee fails to receive the required vote and is an incumbent director, the director shall promptly tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors, subject to acceptance by the Board of Directors. The Directors and Corporate Governance Committee will make a recommendation to the Board of Directors whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors will act on the tendered resignation, taking into account the Directors and Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release, a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or other broadly disseminated means of communication) its decision regarding the tendered resignation and the rationale behind the decision within ninety (90) days from the date of the certification of the election results. The Directors and Corporate Governance Committee in making its recommendation and the Board of Directors in making its decision may each consider any factors or other information that they consider appropriate and relevant. The director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the recommendation of the Directors and Corporate Governance Committee or the decision of the Board of Directors with respect to his or her resignation. If an incumbent director's resignation is not accepted by the Board of Directors, such director shall continue to serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders and until his or her successor is duly elected, or his or her earlier resignation or removal. If a director's resignation is accepted by the Board of Directors, or if a nominee fails to receive the required vote and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Article 9 of the Amended Articles of Incorporation or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of Article 9 of the Amended Articles of Incorporation and Section 2.2.
Election of Directors.
     The election of directors by the shareholders shall be by written ballot if directed by the chairman of the meeting or if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected.
     Any vacancy on the Board of Directors shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors.
     If the holders of preferred stock are entitled to elect any directors voting separately as a class or series, those directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of shares of preferred stock entitled to vote in the election at the meeting, provided a quorum of the holders of shares of preferred stock is present.
 
     SECTION 2.4. .
Meetings of Directors
     (a) Annual Meeting. Unless otherwise provided by resolution of the Board of Directors, the annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held at the place of and immediately following the annual meeting of shareholders, for the purpose of organization, the election of officers and the transaction of such other business as properly may come before the meeting. No notice of the meeting need be given, except in the case an amendment to the Bylaws is to be considered.
     (b) Regular Meetings. The Board of Directors by resolution may provide for the holding of regular meetings and may fix the times and places (within or outside the State of Indiana) at which those meetings shall be held. Notice of regular meetings need not be given except when an amendment to the Bylaws is to be considered. Whenever the time or place of regular meetings shall be fixed or changed, notice of this action shall be mailed promptly to each director not present when the action was taken, addressed to the director at his or her residence or usual place of business.
     (c) Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board and shall be called by the Secretary at the request of any three (3) directors. Except as otherwise required by statute, notice of each special meeting shall be mailed to each director at his or her residence or usual place of business at least three (3) days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to the director at such place by facsimile transmission or other form of electronic communication or personally delivered, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held. The notice shall state the time and place (which may be within or outside the State of Indiana) of the meeting but, unless otherwise required by statute, the Articles of Incorporation or the Bylaws, need not state the purposes thereof.
     Notice of any meeting need not be given to any director, however, who shall attend the meeting, or who shall waive notice thereof, before, at the time of, or after the meeting, in a writing signed by the director and delivered to the Corporation. No notice need be given of any meeting at which every member of the Board of Directors shall be present.
     SECTION 2.5. A majority of the actual number of directors established pursuant to Section 2.1, from time to time, shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business except the filling of vacancies on the Board of Directors under Section 2.3 or voting on a conflict of interest transaction under Section 2.12. The act of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present, shall be the act of the Board of Directors, unless the act of a greater number is required by statute, by the Articles of Incorporation, or by the Bylaws. Under the provisions of Article 13 of the Articles of Incorporation, certain actions by the Board of Directors therein specified require not only approval by the Board of Directors, but also approval by a majority of the Continuing Directors, as therein defined. Any or all directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by which all persons participating in the meeting may simultaneously hear each other, and participation in this manner shall constitute presence in person at the meeting. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the
Quorum and Manner of Acting.
 
directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present. No notice of any adjourned meeting need be given.
     SECTION 2.6. . Any director may resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the Secretary. Unless otherwise specified in the written notice, the resignation shall take effect upon receipt thereof and unless otherwise specified in it, the acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. In addition, a director who fails to receive a majority of the votes cast at an annual meeting of shareholders at which the number of nominees does not exceed the number of directors to be elected shall tender his or her resignation subject to acceptance in accordance with Section 2.3.
Resignations
     SECTION 2.7. . Any director, other than a director elected by holders of preferred stock voting as a class, may be removed from office at any time but only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty (80) percent of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of all of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock (as defined in Article 13 of the Articles of Incorporation), voting together as a single class.
Removal of Directors
     SECTION 2.8. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if taken by all members of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, evidenced by a written consent signed by all such members and effective on the date, either prior or subsequent to the date of the consent, specified in the written consent, or if no effective date is specified in the written consent, the date on which the consent is filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Action without a Meeting
     SECTION 2.9. . A director, who is present at a meeting of the Board of Directors, at which action on any corporate matter is taken, shall be presumed to have assented to the action taken, unless (a) the director's dissent shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting, (b) the director shall file a written dissent to such action with the Secretary of the meeting before adjournment thereof, or (c) the director shall forward such dissent by registered mail to the Secretary immediately after adjournment of the meeting. The right of dissent provided for by the preceding sentence shall not be available, in respect of any matter acted upon at any meeting, to a director who voted in favor of such action.
Attendance and Failure to Object
     SECTION 2.10. . The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the actual number of directors elected and qualified, may designate from among its members one or more committees. Such committees shall have those powers of the Board of Directors which may by law be delegated to such committees and are specified by resolution of the Board of Directors or by committee charters approved by the Board of Directors.
Special Standing Committees
 
     SECTION 2.11. . The Board of Directors or the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, prior to each annual meeting of shareholders, shall appoint a firm of independent public accountants as auditors of the Corporation. Such appointment shall be submitted to the shareholders for ratification at the annual meeting next following such appointment. Should the shareholders fail to ratify the appointment of any firm as auditors of the Corporation, or should the Board of Directors or Audit Committee for any reason determine that any such appointment be terminated, the Board of Directors or Audit Committee shall appoint another firm of independent public accountants to act as auditors of the Corporation and such appointment shall be submitted to the shareholders for ratification at the annual or special shareholders meeting next following such appointment.
Appointment of Auditors
     SECTION 2.12. . No transactions with the Corporation in which one or more of its directors has a direct or indirect interest shall be either void or voidable solely because of such interest if any one of the following is true:
Transactions with Corporation
     (a) the material facts of the transaction and the director's interest are disclosed or known to the Board of Directors or committee which authorizes, approves, or ratifies the transaction by the affirmative vote or consent of a majority of the directors (or committee members) who have no direct or indirect interest in the transaction and, in any event, of at least two directors (or committee members);
     (b) the material facts of the transaction and the director's interest are disclosed or known to the shareholders entitled to vote and they authorize, approve or ratify such transaction by vote; or
     (c) the transaction is fair to the Corporation.
     If a majority of the directors or committee members who have no direct or indirect interest in the transaction vote to authorize, approve, or ratify the transaction, a quorum is present for purposes of taking action under subsection (a) of this section. The presence of, or a vote cast by, a director with a direct or indirect interest in the transaction does not affect the validity of any actions taken under subsection (a) of this section.
     SECTION 2.13. . The Board of Directors is empowered and authorized to fix and determine the compensation of directors and additional compensation for such additional services any of such directors may perform for the Corporation.
Compensation of Directors
     SECTION 3.0. . The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, a President, two (2) or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, a Treasurer, a Chief Accounting Officer, and
Officers, General Authority and Duties
 
such other officers as may be elected or appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.2. One or more of the Vice Presidents may be designated by the Board to serve as Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, or Group Vice Presidents. Any two (2) or more offices may be held by the same person. All officers and agents of the Corporation, as between themselves and the Corporation, shall have such authority and perform such duties in the management of the Corporation as may be provided in the Bylaws or as may be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors not inconsistent with the Bylaws.
     SECTION 3.1. . Each officer (except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.2) shall be elected by the Board of Directors at each annual meeting. Each such officer (whether elected at an annual meeting of the Board of Directors or to fill a vacancy or otherwise) shall hold office until the officer's successor is chosen and qualified, or until death, or until the officer shall resign in the manner provided in Section 3.3 or be removed in the manner provided in Section 3.4. The Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer shall be members of the Board of Directors. Any other officer may but need not be a director of the Corporation. Election or appointment of an officer or agent shall not of itself create contract rights.
Election, Term of Office, Qualifications
     SECTION 3.2. . The Board of Directors from time to time may elect such other officers or agents (including one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, one or more Assistant Treasurers, a Controller, and one or more Assistant Controllers) as it may deem necessary or advisable. The Board of Directors may delegate to any officer the power to appoint any such officers or agents and to prescribe their respective terms of office, powers and duties.
Other Officers, Election or Appointment
     SECTION 3.3. . Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary of the Corporation. Unless otherwise specified in such written notice, such resignation shall take effect upon receipt thereof and unless otherwise specified in it, the acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation
     SECTION 3.4. . The officers specifically designated in Section 3.0 may be removed, either for or without cause, at any meeting of the Board of Directors called for the purpose, by the vote of a majority of the actual number of directors elected and qualified. The officers and agents elected or appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.2 may be removed, either for or without cause, at any meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum be present, by the vote of a majority of the directors present at such meeting, by any superior officer upon whom such power of removal shall have been conferred by the Board of Directors, or by any officer to whom the power to appoint such officer has been delegated by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 3.2. Any removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed.
Removal
 
     SECTION 3.5. . A vacancy in any office by reason of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause, may be filled by the Board of Directors or by an officer authorized under Section 3.2 to appoint to such office.
Vacancies
     SECTION 3.6. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors if present and shall have such powers and perform such duties as are assigned to him or her by the Bylaws and by the Board of Directors. At any time in which neither the Chairman nor the Chief Executive Officer is able to perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chairman, then the Board's presiding or lead director (if one shall have been previously selected) shall perform such duties and exercise such powers.
Chairman of the Board of Directors
     SECTION 3.7. . The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision over the management and direction of the business of the Corporation. He or she shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect. The Chief Executive Officer shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as are assigned to him or her by the Bylaws or the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chairman of the Board at any time that the Chairman of the Board is unable to do so, and shall also perform the duties and exercise the powers of the President at any time that the President is unable to do so.
Chief Executive Officer
     SECTION 3.8. The President shall have such powers and perform such duties as are assigned to him or her by the Chief Executive Officer, the Bylaws or the Board of Directors. The President shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chief Executive Officer at any time that the Chief Executive Officer is unable to do so. If the President is also a director, he or she shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chairman of the Board at any time that none of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the presiding or lead director is able to do so.
President.
     SECTION 3.9. . Each Executive Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to him or her by the President or the Board of Directors. The Executive Vice Presidents, in order of their seniority in office as Executive Vice Presidents (and, between two or more of equal seniority in office as Executive Vice Presidents, in order of their seniority in office as Vice Presidents), shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chief Executive Officer and the President at any time that both the Chief Executive Officer and the President are unable to do so.
Executive Vice Presidents
     SECTION 3.10. . Each Senior Vice President and each Group Vice President shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be assigned to him or her by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors. The Senior Vice Presidents, in order of their seniority in office as Senior Vice Presidents (and between two or more of equal seniority in office as Senior Vice Presidents, in order of their seniority in office as Vice Presidents), shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the
Senior Vice Presidents and Group Vice Presidents
 
Chief Executive Officer and the President at any time that the Chief Executive Officer, the President, and all the Executive Vice Presidents are unable to do so.
     SECTION 3.11. . Each Vice President shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be assigned to him or her by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors.
Vice Presidents
     SECTION 3.12. . The Secretary shall:
Secretary
     (a) record all the proceedings of the meetings of the shareholders and Board of Directors in books to be kept for such purposes;
     (b) cause all notices to be duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws and as required by statute;
     (c) be custodian of the Seal of the Corporation, and cause such Seal to be affixed to all certificates representing shares of the Corporation prior to the issuance thereof (subject, however, to the provisions of Section 5.0) and to all instruments the execution of which on behalf of the Corporation under its Seal shall have been duly authorized in accordance with these Bylaws;
     (d) subject to the provisions of Section 5.0, sign certificates representing shares of the Corporation the issuance of which shall have been authorized by the Board of Directors; and
     (e) in general, perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as are given to the Secretary by these Bylaws or as may be assigned to him or her by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 3.13. . Each Assistant Secretary shall assist the Secretary in his or her duties, and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe or the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary may from time to time delegate. At the request of the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary may temporarily act in the Secretary's place in the performing of part or all of the duties of the Secretary. In the case of the death of the Secretary, or in the case of the Secretary's absence or inability to act without having designated an Assistant Secretary to act temporarily in his or her place, the Assistant Secretary who is to perform the duties of the Secretary shall be designated by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors.
Assistant Secretaries
     SECTION 3.14. . The Chief Financial Officer shall:
Chief Financial Officer
     (a) have supervision over and be responsible for the funds, securities, receipts, and disbursements of the Corporation;
 
     (b) cause to be kept at the principal business office of the Corporation and preserved for review as required by law or regulation records of financial transactions and correct books of account using appropriate accounting principles;
     (c) be responsible for the establishment of adequate internal control over the transactions and books of account of the Corporation;
     (d) be responsible for rendering to the proper officers and the Board of Directors upon request, and to the shareholders and other parties as required by law or regulation, financial statements of the Corporation; and
     (e) in general, perform all duties incident to the office and such other duties as are given by the Bylaws or as may be assigned by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 3.15. . The Treasurer shall:
Treasurer
     (a) have charge of the funds, securities, receipts and disbursements of the Corporation;
     (b) cause the moneys and other valuable effects of the Corporation to be deposited or invested in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such banks or trust companies or with such bankers or other depositories or investments as shall be selected in accordance with resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors;
     (c) cause the funds of the Corporation to be disbursed from the authorized depositories of the Corporation, and cause to be taken and preserved proper records of all moneys disbursed; and
     (d) in general, perform all duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as are given to the Treasurer by the Bylaws or as may be assigned to him or her by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, or the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 3.16. . Each Assistant Treasurer shall assist the Treasurer in his or her duties, and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe or the President or the Chief Financial Officer may from time to time delegate. At the request of the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer may temporarily act in the Treasurer's place in performing part or all of the duties of the Treasurer. In the case of the death of the Treasurer, or in the case of the Treasurer's absence or inability to act without having designated an Assistant Treasurer to act in his or her place, the Assistant Treasurer who is to perform the duties of the Treasurer shall be designated by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer or the Board of Directors.
Assistant Treasurers
 
     SECTION 3.17. . The Chief Accounting Officer shall:
Chief Accounting Officer
     (a) keep full and accurate accounts of all assets, liabilities, commitments, revenues, costs and expenses, and other financial transactions of the Corporation in books belonging to the Corporation, and conform them to sound accounting principles with adequate internal control;
     (b) cause regular audits of these books and records to be made;
     (c) see that all expenditures are made in accordance with procedures duly established, from time to time, by the Corporation;
     (d) render financial statements upon the request of the Board of Directors, and a full financial report prior to the annual meeting of shareholders, as well as such other financial statements as are required by law or regulation; and
     (e) in general, perform all the duties ordinarily connected with the office of Chief Accounting Officer and such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, or the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 3.18. . The Board of Directors may appoint a general counsel who shall have general control of all matters of legal import concerning the Corporation.
General Counsel
     SECTION 3.19. . Any other officers or agents elected or appointed pursuant to Section 3.2 shall have such duties and responsibilities as may be fixed from time to time by the Bylaws or as may be assigned to them by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors.
Other Officers or Agents
     SECTION 3.20. In recognition of distinguished service to the Corporation, the Board of Directors may designate a person who has served as Chairman of the Board and who is no longer an employee, officer, or director as Chairman Emeritus. The Chairman Emeritus may serve to represent the Corporation at the request of the Chairman of the Board.
Chairman Emeritus.
     SECTION 3.21. . The compensation of executive officers of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Compensation Committee (or successor committee) established pursuant to Section 2.10. Unless the Board of Directors by resolution shall direct otherwise, the compensation of employees who are not executive officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the management of the Company. No employee shall be prevented from receiving compensation by reason of being a director of the Corporation.
Compensation
     SECTION 3.22. . In case the Board of Directors shall so require, any officer or agent of the Corporation shall execute to the Corporation a bond in such sum and with
Surety Bonds
 
such surety or sureties as the Board of Directors may direct, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties to the Corporation, including responsibility for negligence and for the accounting of all property, funds or securities of the Corporation which the officer or agent may handle.
     SECTION 4.0. . All deeds, contracts, and other instruments requiring execution by the Corporation may be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President. Authority to sign any deed, contract, or other instrument requiring execution by the Corporation may be conferred by the Board of Directors upon any person or persons whether or not such person or persons be officers of the Corporation. Such person or persons may delegate, from time to time, by instrument in writing, all or any part of such authority to any other person or persons if authorized so to do by the Board of Directors.
Execution of Instruments Generally
     SECTION 4.1. . All notes, drafts, acceptances, checks, endorsements, and all evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation whatsoever, shall be signed by such officer or officers or such agent or agents of the Corporation and in such manner as the Board of Directors from time to time may determine. Endorsements for deposit to the credit of the Corporation in any of its duly authorized depositories shall be made in such manner as the Board of Directors from time to time may determine.
Notes, Checks, Other Instruments
     SECTION 4.2. . Proxies, powers of attorney, or consents to vote with respect to shares or units of other corporations or other entities owned by or standing in the name of the Corporation may be executed and delivered from time to time on behalf of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or by any other person or persons thereunto authorized by the Board of Directors. Persons with authority to execute proxies, powers of attorney, or consents under this Section 4.2 may delegate that authority unless prohibited by the Board of Directors.
Proxies
     SECTION 5.0. . Shares in the corporation may be issued in book-entry form or evidenced by certificates. However, every holder of shares in the Corporation shall be entitled upon request to have a certificate evidencing the shares owned by the shareholder, signed in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, President or a Vice President and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary,
Certificates for Shares
 
certifying the number of shares owned by the shareholder in the Corporation. The signatures of such officers, the signature of the transfer agent and registrar, and the Seal of the Corporation may be facsimiles. In case any officer or employee who shall have signed, or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been used on, any certificate shall cease to be an officer or employee of the Corporation before the certificate shall have been issued and delivered by the Corporation, the certificate may nevertheless be adopted by the Corporation and be issued and delivered as though the person or persons who signed the certificate or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer or employee of the Corporation; and the issuance and delivery by the Corporation of any such certificate shall constitute an adoption thereof. Every certificate shall state on its face (or in the case of book-entry shares, the statements evidencing ownership of such shares shall state) the name of the Corporation and that it is organized under the laws of the State of Indiana, the name of the person to whom it is issued, and the number and class of shares and the designation of the series, if any, the certificate represents, and shall state conspicuously on its front or back that the Corporation will furnish the shareholder, upon written request and without charge, a summary of the designations, relative rights, preferences and limitations applicable to each class and the variations in rights, preferences and limitations determined for each series (and the authority of the Board of Directors to determine variations for future series). Every certificate (or book-entry statement) shall state whether such shares have been fully paid and are non-assessable. If any such shares are not fully paid, the certificate (or book-entry statement) shall be legibly stamped to indicate the percentum which has been paid up, and as further payments are made thereon, the certificate shall be stamped (or book-entry statement updated) accordingly. Subject to the foregoing provisions, certificates representing shares in the Corporation shall be in such form as shall be approved by the Board of Directors. There shall be entered upon the stock books of the Corporation at the time of the issuance or transfer of each share the number of the certificates representing such share (if any), the name of the person owning the shares represented thereby, the class of such share and the date of the issuance or transfer thereof.
     SECTION 5.1. . Transfer of shares of the Corporation shall be made on the books of the Corporation by the holder of record thereof, or by the shareholder's attorney thereunto duly authorized in writing and filed with the Secretary of the Corporation or any of its transfer agents, and on surrender of the certificate or certificates (if any) representing such shares. The Corporation and its transfer agents and registrars, shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares the absolute owner thereof for all purposes, and accordingly shall not be bound to recognize any legal, equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person whether or not it or they shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise expressly provided by the statutes of the State of Indiana. Shareholders shall notify the Corporation in writing of any changes in their addresses from time to time.
Transfer of Shares
     SECTION 5.2. . Subject to the provisions of this Article V, the Board of Directors may make such rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issuance, transfer and regulation of certificates for shares or book-entry shares of the Corporation.
Regulations
 
     SECTION 5.3. . The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents, one or more registrars, and one or more agents to act in the dual capacity of transfer agent and registrar with respect to the certificates representing shares and the book-entry shares of the Corporation.
Transfer Agents and Registrars
     SECTION 5.4. . The holders of any shares of the Corporation shall immediately notify the Corporation or one of its transfer agents and registrars of any loss or destruction of the certificate representing the same. The Corporation may issue a new certificate in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it alleged to have been lost or destroyed upon such terms and under such regulations as may be adopted by the Board of Directors or the Secretary, and the Board of Directors or Secretary may require the owner of the lost or destroyed certificate or the owner's legal representatives to give the Corporation a bond in such form and for such amount as the Board of Directors or Secretary may direct, and with such surety or sureties as may be satisfactory to the Board of Directors or the Secretary to indemnify the Corporation and its transfer agents and registrars against any claim that may be made against it or any such transfer agent or registrar on account of the alleged loss or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate. A new certificate may be issued without requiring any bond when, in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the Secretary, it is proper so to do.
Lost or Destroyed Certificates
     SECTION 5.5. . Any or all control shares acquired in a control share acquisition shall be subject to redemption by the Corporation, if either:
Redemption of Shares Acquired in Control Share Acquisitions
     (a) No acquiring person statement has been filed with the Corporation with respect to the control share acquisition; or
     (b) The control shares are not accorded full voting rights by the Corporation's shareholders as provided in IND. CODE 23-1-42-9.
     A redemption pursuant to Section 5.5(a) may be made at any time during the period ending sixty (60) days after the date of the last acquisition of control shares by the acquiring person. A redemption pursuant to Section 5.5(b) may be made at any time during the period ending two (2) years after the date of the shareholder vote with respect to the voting rights of the control shares in question. Any redemption pursuant to this Section 5.5 shall be made at the fair value of the control shares and pursuant to such procedures for the redemption as may be set forth in these Bylaws or adopted by resolution of the Board of Directors.
     As used in this Section 5.5, the terms "control shares," "control share acquisition," "acquiring person statement" and "acquiring person" shall have the meanings ascribed to them in IND. CODE 23-1-42.
 
     SECTION 6.0. .
Right to Indemnification
     (a) The Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law now or hereafter in effect, indemnify any person who is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation ("Eligible Person") and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed investigation, claim, action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including, without limitation, any action, suit or proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor) (a "Proceeding") by reason of the fact that such Eligible Person is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, partner, member, manager, trustee, employee, fiduciary or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, any employee benefit plan) (a "Covered Entity"), against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines or penalties against (including excise taxes assessed with respect to an employee benefit plan) and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such Eligible Person in connection with such Proceeding.
     (b) Notwithstanding Section 6.0(a), the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify an Eligible Person with respect to a Proceeding (or part thereof) commenced by such Eligible Person, except with respect to (i) a judicial adjudication or arbitration commenced by the Eligible Person under Section 6.4(e) or (f), as to which the rights to indemnification are provided pursuant Section 6.4(h), or (ii) a Proceeding (or part thereof) that was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
     (c) In the event a Proceeding arises out of an Eligible Person's service to a Covered Entity, the indemnification provided by the Corporation under this Article shall be secondary to and not with any indemnification provided by the Covered Entity. However, the Corporation may provide indemnification to the Eligible Person in the first instance, in which case the Corporation shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to the rights of the Eligible Person with respect to the indemnification provided by the Covered Entity and any insurance coverage maintained by the Covered Entity on behalf of the Eligible Person.
pari passu
     (d) Any right of an Eligible Person to indemnification shall be a contract right and shall include the right to receive, prior to the conclusion of any Proceeding, advancement of any expenses incurred by the Eligible Person in connection with such Proceeding in accordance with Section 6.3.
     SECTION 6.1. . The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any Eligible Person against any expense, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement as specified in Section 6.0 or incurred by any Eligible Person in connection with any Proceeding referred to in such section, to the fullest extent
Insurance, Contracts and Funding
 
permitted by applicable law now or hereafter in effect. The Corporation may enter into agreements with any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or any director, officer, employee, fiduciary or agent of any Covered Entity supplemental to or in furtherance of the provisions of this Article and may create a trust fund or use other means (including, without limitation, a letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to effect indemnification and advancement of expenses as provided in this Article.
     SECTION 6.2. . The rights provided in this Article shall not be exclusive of any other rights to which any Eligible Person may otherwise be entitled, and the provisions of this Article shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal representatives of any Eligible Person and shall be applicable to Proceedings commenced or continuing after the adoption of this Article, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after such adoption.
Non-Exclusive Rights; Applicability to Certain Proceedings
     SECTION 6.3. .
Advancement of Expenses
     (a) Except as provided under Sections 6.3(b) and (c) below, all reasonable expenses incurred by or on behalf of an Eligible Person in connection with any Proceeding shall be advanced to the Eligible Person by the Corporation within sixty (60) days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the Eligible Person complying with this section and Section 6.4 requesting such advance or advances from time to time, whether prior to or after final disposition of such Proceeding, unless a determination has been made pursuant to Section 6.4 that such Eligible Person is not entitled to indemnification. Any such statement or statements shall reasonably evidence the expenses incurred by the Eligible Person and shall include (i) a written representation that, in connection with the matters giving rise to the Proceeding, the Eligible Person was acting in good faith and in what he or she believed to be the best interests of the Corporation or at least not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and (ii) a written affirmation or undertaking to repay advances if it is ultimately determined that the Eligible Person is not entitled to indemnification under this Article.
     (b) Notwithstanding Section 6.3(a), advancement of expenses shall not be mandatory, but shall be permissive at the discretion of the Corporation, for expenses incurred after the Eligible Person's conviction by a trial court of competent jurisdiction of, or plea of guilty or or its equivalent to, a crime arising from the circumstances giving rise to the Proceeding.
nolo contendere
     (c) Notwithstanding Section 6.3(a), advancement of expenses shall not be mandatory, but shall be permissive at the discretion of the Corporation, for expenses incurred by or on behalf of Eligible Persons for judicial adjudications or arbitrations under Section 6.4(e) or (f), except that advancement of such expenses shall be mandatory for judicial adjudications or arbitrations brought after a Change in Control in connection with expenses relating to underlying Proceedings arising from actions or failures to act prior to the Change in Control, provided the Eligible Person complies with the requirements of Section 6.3(a).
 
     SECTION 6.4. . In furtherance, but not in limitation, of the foregoing provisions, the following procedures, presumptions and remedies shall apply with respect to and the right to indemnification and advancement of expenses under this Article.
Procedures; Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings; Remedies
     (a) To obtain indemnification under this Article, an Eligible Person shall submit to the Secretary of the Corporation a written request, including such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the Eligible Person and reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the Eligible Person is entitled to indemnification (the "Supporting Documentation"). The determination of the Eligible Person's entitlement to indemnification shall be made not later than sixty (60) days after receipt by the Corporation of the written request together with the Supporting Documentation. The Secretary of the Corporation shall, promptly upon receipt of such request, advise the Board in writing of the Eligible Person's request.
     (b) An Eligible Person's entitlement to indemnification under this Article shall be determined in one of the following methods, such method to be selected by the Board of Directors, regardless of whether there are any Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined): (i) by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, if they constitute a quorum of the Board; (ii) by a written opinion of Special Counsel (as hereinafter defined) if (A) a Change in Control shall have occurred and the Eligible Person so requests or (B) a quorum of the Board consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, a majority of such Disinterested Directors so directs; (iii) by the shareholders of the Corporation (but only if a majority of the Disinterested Directors, if they constitute a quorum of the Board, presents the issue of entitlement to the shareholders for their determination); or (iv) as provided in subsection (d).
     (c) In the event the determination of entitlement is to be made by Special Counsel, a majority of the Disinterested Directors shall select the Special Counsel, but only Special Counsel to which the Eligible Person does not reasonably object; provided, however, that if a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Eligible Person shall select such Special Counsel, but only Special Counsel to which a majority of the Disinterested Directors does not reasonably object.
     (d) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article, if a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Eligible Person shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification (with respect to actions or failures to act occurring prior to such Change in Control) upon submission of a request for indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation in accordance with subsection (a), and thereafter the Corporation shall have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in reaching a contrary determination. In any event, if the person or persons empowered under subsection (c) to determine entitlement shall not have been appointed or shall not have made a determination within sixty (60) days after receipt by the Corporation of the request therefor together with the Supporting Documentation, the Eligible Person shall be deemed to be, and shall be, entitled to indemnification and advancement of expenses unless (i) the Eligible Person misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (ii) such indemnification is prohibited by law. The termination of any Proceeding or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, adversely affect the right of an Eligible Person to indemnification or create a presumption that the Eligible Person did not act in good faith and in a manner which the Eligible Person
nolo contendere
 
reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, that the Eligible Person had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
     (e) In the event that a determination is made that the Eligible Person is not entitled to indemnification (i) the Eligible Person shall be entitled to seek an adjudication of his or her entitlement to such indemnification either, at the Eligible Person's sole option, in (A) an appropriate court of the state of Indiana or any other court of competent jurisdiction or (B) an arbitration to be conducted in Indianapolis, Indiana, by a single arbitrator pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association; (ii) in any such judicial proceeding or arbitration the Eligible Person shall not be prejudiced by reason of the prior determination pursuant to this Section 6.4; and (iii) if a Change in Control shall have occurred, in any such judicial proceeding or arbitration the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the Eligible Person is not entitled to indemnification but only with respect to actions or failures to act occurring prior to such Change in Control.
     (f) If a determination shall have been made or deemed to have been made that the Eligible Person is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be obligated to pay the amounts incurred by the Eligible Person within ten (10) days after such determination has been made or deemed to have been made and shall be conclusively bound by such determination unless (i) the Eligible Person misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (ii) such indemnification is prohibited by law. In the event that (A) any advancement of expenses is not timely made pursuant to Section 6.3 or (B) payment of indemnification is not made within ten (10) days after a determination of entitlement to indemnification has been made, the Eligible Person shall be entitled to seek judicial enforcement of the Corporation's obligation, to pay to the Eligible Person such advancement of expenses or indemnification. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation may bring an action, in an appropriate court in the State of Indiana or any other court of competent jurisdiction, contesting the right of the Eligible Person to receive indemnification hereunder due to the occurrence of an event described in clause (i) or (ii) of this subsection (f) (a "Disqualifying Event"); provided, however, that in any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving the occurrence of such Disqualifying Event.
     (g) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 6.4 that the procedures and presumptions of this Article are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Corporation is bound by the provisions of this Article.
     (h) In the event that the Eligible Person seeks a judicial adjudication of or an award in arbitration to enforce his or her rights under, or to recover damages for breach of this Article, the Eligible Person shall be entitled to recover from the Corporation, and shall be indemnified by the Corporation, against, any expenses actually and reasonably incurred by the Eligible Person in connection with such adjudication or arbitration if the Eligible Person prevails in such adjudication or arbitration. If it shall be determined in such judicial adjudication or arbitration that the Eligible Person is entitled to receive part but not all of the indemnification or advancement of expenses sought, the expenses incurred by the Eligible Person in connection with such judicial adjudication or arbitration shall be prorated accordingly.
 
     SECTION 6.5. . For purposes of this Article:
Certain Definitions
     (a) "Change in Control" means any of the following events: (i) the acquisition by any "person," as that term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, other than (A) the Corporation, (B) any subsidiary of the Corporation, (C) any employee benefit plan or employee stock plan of the Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation or any trustee or fiduciary with respect to any such plan when acting in that capacity, or (D) Lilly Endowment, Inc., of "beneficial ownership" as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, directly or indirectly, of 20 percent or more of the shares of the Corporation's capital stock the holders of which have general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the Board (or which would have such voting power but for the application of IND. CODE  23-1-42-1 through 23-1-42-11) ("Voting Stock"); (ii) the first day on which less than one half of the total membership of the Board shall be Continuing Directors (as such term is defined in Article 13.(f) of the Articles of Incorporation); (iii) consummation of a merger, share exchange, or consolidation of the Corporation (a "Transaction"), other than a Transaction which would result in the Voting Stock of the Corporation outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50 percent of the Voting Stock of the Corporation or such surviving entity immediately after such Transaction; or (iv) approval by the shareholders of the Corporation of a complete liquidation of the Corporation or a sale of disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the Corporation.
     (b) "Disinterested Director" means a Director who is not or was not a party to the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by the Eligible Person.
     (c) "Special Counsel" means a law firm or a member of a law firm that neither presently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification under this Article. In addition, any person who, under applicable standards of professional conduct, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the Eligible Person in an action to determine the Eligible Person's rights under this Article may not act as Special Counsel.
     SECTION 6.6. . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Article, the Corporation may, consistent with the provisions of applicable law, indemnify any person other than a director, officer or employee of the Corporation who is or was an agent of the Corporation and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed Proceeding by reasons of the fact that such person is or was an agent of the Corporation or, at the request of the Corporation, a director, officer, partner, member, manager, employee, fiduciary or agent of a Covered Entity against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such Proceeding. The Corporation may also advance expenses incurred by such person in connection with any such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of applicable law.
Indemnification of Agents
 
     SECTION 6.7. . Neither the amendment or repeal of, nor the adoption of a provision inconsistent with, any provision of this Article shall adversely affect the rights of any Eligible Person under this Article (a) with respect to any Proceeding commenced or threatened prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption of an inconsistent provision or (b) after the occurrence of a Change in Control, with respect to any Proceeding arising out of any action or omission occurring prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption of an inconsistent provision, in either case without the written consent of such Eligible Person.
Effect of Amendment or Repeal
     SECTION 6.8. . If any of this Article shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article (including, without limitation, all portions of any Section of this Article containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (b) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article (including, without limitation, all portions of any Section of this Article containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
Severability
     SECTION 7.0. . The Seal of the Corporation shall consist of a circular disk around the circumference of which shall appear the words:
Corporate Seal
and across the center thereof the words:
     SECTION 7.1. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January in each year and shall end on the thirty-first day of the following December.
Fiscal Year
     SECTION 7.2. . These Bylaws may be amended or repealed and new Bylaws may be adopted by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the actual number of directors elected and qualified at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors, provided that: (a) the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting states in effect that consideration is to be given at such meeting to the amendment or repeal of the Bylaws or the adoption of new Bylaws; (b) no provision of these Bylaws incorporating a provision of Articles 9, 13 or 14 of the Articles of Incorporation may be amended except in a manner consistent with
Amendment of Bylaws
 
those Articles as they may be amended in compliance with the requirements stated therein; and (c) any amendment to Articles I and VI of these Bylaws shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of (i) the actual number of directors elected and qualified, and (ii) the Continuing Directors, as defined in Article 13.(f) of the Articles of Incorporation.

Exhibit 99
October 21, 2010
www.lilly.com Date:
Eli Lilly and Company (NYSE: LLY) today announced financial results for the third quarter of 2010.
Financial results for 2010 and 2009 are presented on both a reported and a non-GAAP basis. Reported results were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and include all revenue and expenses recognized during the period. Non-GAAP results exclude the items described in the reconciliation tables. The non-GAAP results are presented in order to provide additional insights into the underlying trends in the company's business. The company's 2010 financial guidance is also being provided on both a reported and a non-GAAP basis.
 
"Lilly delivered solid financial results in the third quarter, highlighted by international revenue growth and the impact of ongoing cost containment initiatives," said John C. Lechleiter Ph.D., Lilly's chairman and chief executive officer. "Japan performed particularly well in the quarter, growing revenue by 27 percent, driven by recent product launches. Strong performance was also seen in key emerging market countries, including China. Based upon our strong worldwide year-to-date results and lower estimates of the impact of U.S. health care reform, we have once again raised our earnings guidance for the year."
Lechleiter continued, "Although we are disappointed by recent pipeline setbacks, we remain committed to our strategy of accelerating the flow of innovative new medicines that provide improved outcomes for individual patients. We believe that this strategy, while not without risk, will provide the greatest value to our shareholders and the patients we serve."
Key Events Over the Last Three Months
 
 
Third-Quarter Reported Results
In the third quarter of 2010, worldwide total revenue was $5.655 billion, an increase of 2 percent compared with the third quarter of 2009. This 2 percent revenue growth was comprised of an increase of 3 percent due to higher prices, offset by a 1 percent decrease due to the impact of foreign exchange rates, while volume was essentially flat. Total revenue in the U.S. was essentially flat at $3.150 billion, due to higher prices, offset by decreased volume due primarily to wholesaler buying patterns. Total revenue outside the U.S. increased 4 percent to $2.504 billion due to increased demand, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, lower prices. Third-quarter 2010 total revenue would have been reduced by approximately $65 million due to the impact of U.S. health care reform, but was only reduced by approximately $25 million, due primarily to the issuance of guidelines that clarified the implementation of certain aspects of health care reform legislation, resulting in a reduction of a prior accrual.
Gross margin increased 3 percent in the third quarter of 2010. Gross margin as a percent of total revenue was 82.5 percent, reflecting an increase of 1.4 percentage points compared with the third quarter of 2009, driven primarily by manufacturing productivity improvements and increased prices.
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses were essentially flat at $1.695 billion. Higher marketing and selling expenses outside the U.S. were offset by lower administrative expenses and company-wide cost containment efforts. Research and development expenses were $1.220 billion, or 22 percent of total revenue. Compared with the third quarter of 2009, research and development expenses grew 9 percent due primarily to a charge of approximately $80 million related to the termination of the development of semagacestat, and increased costs of late-stage clinical trials. Total operating expense, defined as the sum of research and development, marketing, selling and administrative expenses, increased 3 percent compared with the third quarter of 2009.
In the third quarter of 2010, the company recognized a charge of $59.5 million for restructuring primarily related to severance and other related costs from previously announced strategic actions that the company is taking to reduce its cost structure and global workforce. In the third quarter of 2009, the company recognized asset impairments, restructuring and other special charges of $549.8 million, primarily related to the sale of the Tippecanoe manufacturing site to Evonik Industries, and a special pretax charge related to Zyprexa litigation.
 
Operating income in the third quarter of 2010 increased 49 percent to $1.693 billion, compared to the third quarter of 2009, due primarily to lower asset impairments, restructuring and other special charges.
Other income (expense) improved $45.2 million, to a net expense of $21.7 million, primarily due to an insurance recovery in the third quarter of 2010 associated with the theft of product at the company's Enfield distribution center in March 2010, as well as lower net interest expense.
The effective tax rate was 22 percent in the third quarter of 2010, compared with an effective tax rate of 11.9 percent in the third quarter of 2009. The effective tax rate for 2010 reflects the expiration of the R&D tax credit in the U.S. The 2009 effective tax rate benefitted primarily from the deductibility of the asset impairment and restructuring charges in the third quarter of 2009 associated with the sale of the Tippecanoe site.
Net income and earnings per share increased to $1.303 billion and $1.18, respectively, compared with third-quarter 2009 net income of $941.8 million and earnings per share of $.86.
Third-Quarter non-GAAP Results
Operating income increased 4 percent to $1.753 billion, due to increased gross margin, partially offset by increased research and development expenses. The effective tax rate was 22.5 percent, up from 19.0 percent in the third quarter of 2009. The effective tax rate for 2010 reflects the expiration of the R&D tax credit in the U.S. The effective tax rate in the third quarter of 2009 reflected a benefit for a cumulative adjustment in the forecasted effective tax rate for the year. Net income increased 2 percent to $1.341 billion, while earnings per share increased 1 percent to $1.21. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, operating income and earnings per share would have increased approximately 7 percent and 5 percent, respectively.
For purposes of non-GAAP reporting, items totaling $.03 and $.34 per share for the third quarters of 2010 and 2009, respectively, have been excluded. For further detail, see the reconciliation below as well as the footnotes to the non-GAAP income statement later in this press release.
 
Numbers in the 2009 third quarter column do not add due to rounding
Year-to-Date Results
For the first nine months of 2010, worldwide total revenue increased 6 percent to $16.889 billion, compared with the same period in 2009. Reported net income and earnings per share were $3.900 billion and $3.53, respectively. Net income and earnings per share, on a non-GAAP basis, were $4.006 billion and $3.63, respectively.
For purposes of non-GAAP reporting, items totaling $.10 per share and $.40 per share for the first nine months of 2010 and 2009, respectively, have been excluded. For further detail, see the reconciliation below as well as the footnotes to the non-GAAP income statement later in this press release.
Numbers in the 2009 third quarter column do not add due to rounding
 
Revenue Highlights
Zyprexa
In the third quarter of 2010, Zyprexa sales totaled $1.213 billion, a decrease of 1 percent compared with the third quarter of 2009. U.S. sales of Zyprexa increased 6 percent to $604.6 million, driven by higher prices, partially offset by the impact of wholesaler buying patterns. Zyprexa sales in international markets decreased 7 percent, to $608.2 million, driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and lower prices.
Cymbalta
For the third quarter of 2010, Cymbalta generated $825.3 million in revenue, an increase of 4 percent compared with the third quarter of 2009. U.S. sales of Cymbalta decreased 1 percent, to $643.2 million, driven primarily by the impact of wholesaler buying patterns, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. were $162.8 million, an increase of 18 percent, primarily driven by higher demand resulting from recent launches in Japan and Canada. In addition, the company recognized $19.2 million of revenue associated with the reacquisition of duloxetine rights from Boehringer Ingelheim.
 
Alimta
For the third quarter of 2010, Alimta generated sales of $560.3 million, an increase of 21 percent compared with the third quarter of 2009. U.S. sales of Alimta increased 14 percent, to $245.5 million, due to increased demand and higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 28 percent, to $314.8 million, driven by increased demand. Demand outside the U.S. was favorably impacted by the continued strong growth of the non-small cell lung cancer indication in Japan.
Humalog
For the third quarter of 2010, worldwide Humalog sales decreased 1 percent, to $494.0 million. Sales in the U.S. decreased 7 percent to $288.9 million, driven in part by the impact of wholesaler buying patterns. Sales outside the U.S. increased 8 percent to $205.1 million, primarily driven by higher demand.
Cialis
Cialis sales for the third quarter of 2010 increased 2 percent to $406.5 million. U.S. sales of Cialis were $153.5 million in the third quarter, a 3 percent decrease compared with the third quarter of 2009, driven primarily by the impact of wholesaler buying patterns, partially offset by higher prices. Sales of Cialis outside the U.S. increased 6 percent, to $253.0 million, driven by increased demand and higher prices, offset partially by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates.
Gemzar
Gemzar sales totaled $324.6 million in the third quarter of 2010, a decrease of 2 percent from the third quarter of 2009. Sales in the U.S. increased 15 percent, to $219.7 million, due to higher prices and the favorable impact of wholesaler buying patterns. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 25 percent, to $104.9 million, due primarily to lower prices and demand as a result of generic competition in most major markets.
Humulin
Worldwide Humulin sales increased 7 percent in the third quarter of 2010, to $278.0 million. U.S. sales increased 14 percent to $120.7 million, driven by increased volume resulting from the new partnership with Walmart for Humulin ReliOnand, to a lesser extent, higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 2 percent, to $157.3 million, driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower prices and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates.
 
Evista
Evista sales were $256.8 million in the third quarter of 2010, a 1 percent decrease compared with the third quarter of 2009. U.S. sales of Evista decreased 5 percent to $166.4 million, as a result of decreased demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 6 percent to $90.4 million, driven primarily by increased demand.
Forteo
Third-quarter sales of Forteo were $199.7 million, a 6 percent decrease compared with the third quarter of 2009. U.S. sales of Forteo decreased 12 percent to $118.7 million due to lower demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 4 percent, to $81.0 million, due to higher prices and, to a lesser extent, increased demand, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates.
Strattera
During the third quarter of 2010, Strattera generated $127.9 million of sales, a decrease of 12 percent compared with the third quarter of 2009. U.S. sales decreased 20 percent to $85.1 million, due to lower demand, and to a lesser extent, lower net effective selling prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 11 percent, to $42.8 million, driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower prices. Demand outside the U.S. was favorably impacted by continued strong demand in Japan.
Byetta
Lilly recognizes in revenue its 50 percent share of Byetta's gross margin in the U.S., 100 percent of Byetta sales outside the U.S., and its sales of Byetta pen delivery devices to its partner, Amylin Pharmaceuticals. For the third quarter of 2010, Lilly recognized total revenue of $102.7 million for Byetta, a decrease of 11 percent.
Worldwide sales of Byetta were $168.8 million in the third quarter of 2010, an 18 percent decrease compared with the third quarter of 2009, due to competitive pressures in the U.S. and German markets. U.S. sales of Byetta decreased 23 percent to $132.4 million compared with the third quarter of 2009, while sales of Byetta outside the U.S. grew 5 percent to $36.4 million.
 
Erbitux
Lilly recognizes net royalties received from its Erbitux collaboration partners and revenue from manufactured product sold to these partners. For the third quarter of 2010, Lilly recognized total revenue of $95.4 million for Erbitux, a decrease of 6 percent.
Effient
Worldwide Effient sales were $36.3 million in the third quarter of 2010, up from $22.9 million in the second quarter of 2010. U.S. Effient sales were $28.1 million. Sales outside the U.S. were $8.2 million.
Animal Health
Worldwide sales of animal health products in the third quarter of 2010 were $353.2 million, an increase of 12 percent compared with the third quarter of 2009. U.S. sales grew 12 percent, to $197.8 million, due primarily to increased sales of Comfortis. Sales outside the U.S. increased 13 percent, to $155.5 million, driven by increased demand.
TM
 
2010 Financial Guidance
The company has raised its 2010 earnings guidance and now expects earnings per share to be in the range of $4.55 to $4.65 on a reported basis and $4.65 to $4.75 on a non-GAAP basis, excluding any potential fourth quarter restructuring charges primarily related to previously announced cost structure and global workforce reductions. This new guidance also does not include any potential charges related to the recent news on Bydureon and teplizumab. The company has also revised certain other elements of its full-year 2010 financial guidance.
2010 Earnings Per Share Expectations:
Numbers in the 2009 column do not add due to rounding.
The company now expects volume-driven revenue growth in the mid-single digits, driven primarily by Alimta, Cymbalta, Humalog, Cialis and Effient. For 2010, the company now expects that U.S. health care reform will reduce revenue by approximately $225 million to $275 million.
The company still anticipates that gross margin as a percent of revenue will be flat to increasing. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold, the company still expects gross margin as a percent of revenue to increase.
Marketing, selling and administrative expenses are still projected to grow in the low-single digits while research and development expenses are still projected to grow in the low-double digits.
Other income is now expected to be a net expense of between $0 and $50.0 million. The tax rate is still expected to be approximately 23 percent, assuming extension of the R&D tax credit in the U.S. retroactive to January 1, 2010.
 
Cash flows are expected to be sufficient to fund capital expenditures now estimated to be approximately $700 million, as well as anticipated business development activity and the company's dividend.
Webcast of Conference Call
As previously announced, investors and the general public can access a live webcast of the third-quarter 2010 financial results conference call through a link on Lilly's website at . The conference call will be held today from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) and will be available for replay via the website through November 19, 2010.
www.lilly.com
Lilly, a leading innovation-driven corporation, is developing a growing portfolio of pharmaceutical products by applying the latest research from its own worldwide laboratories and from collaborations with eminent scientific organizations. Headquartered in Indianapolis, Ind., Lilly provides answers  through medicines and information  for some of the world's most urgent medical needs. Additional information about Lilly is available at ; Lilly's clinical trial registry is available at www.lillytrials.com.
www.lilly.com
F-LLY
This press release contains forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations, but actual results may differ materially due to various factors. There are significant risks and uncertainties in pharmaceutical research and development. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that the products will receive the necessary clinical and manufacturing regulatory approvals or that they will prove to be commercially successful. The company's results may also be affected by such factors as competitive developments affecting current products; rate of sales growth of recently launched products; the timing of anticipated regulatory approvals and launches of new products; regulatory actions regarding currently marketed products; other regulatory developments and government investigations; patent disputes and other litigation involving current and future products; the impact of governmental actions regarding pricing, importation, and reimbursement for pharmaceuticals, including U.S. health care reform; changes in tax law; asset impairments and restructuring charges; acquisitions and business development transactions; and the impact of exchange rates and global macroeconomic conditions. For additional information about the factors that affect the company's business, please see the company's latest Form 10-Q filed July 2010 and Form 10-K filed February 2010. The company undertakes no duty to update forward-looking statements.
Alimta (pemetrexed, Lilly) Bydureon (exenatide for extended-release injectable suspension, Amylin Pharmaceuticals) Byetta (exenatide injection, Amylin Pharmaceuticals) Cialis (tadalafil, Lilly) Comfortis (Lilly)
TM
 
Cymbalta (duloxetine hydrochloride, Lilly) Effient (prasugrel, Lilly) Erbitux (cetuximab, ImClone Systems, Lilly) Evista (raloxifene hydrochloride, Lilly) Forteo (teriparatide of recombinant DNA origin injection, Lilly) Gemzar (gemcitabine hydrochloride, Lilly) Humalog (insulin lispro injection of recombinant DNA origin, Lilly) Humulin (human insulin of recombinant DNA origin, Lilly) Strattera (atomoxetine hydrochloride, Lilly) Zyprexa (olanzapine, Lilly)
TM
Eli Lilly and Company Employment Information
 
Eli Lilly and Company Operating Results (Unaudited)  REPORTED (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
NM  not meaningful
 
Eli Lilly and Company Operating Results (Unaudited)  Non-GAAP (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
NM  not meaningful
 


