Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters). Competition The entire independent power industry in the United States is in turmoil. Many of NRG Energys competitors have announced plans to scale back their growth, sell assets, and restructure their finances. The results of the wholesale restructuring of the independent power industry are impossible to predict, but they may include consolidation within the industry, the sale or liquidation of certain competitors, the re regulation of certain markets, and the long term reduction in new investment into the industry. Under any scenario, however, NRG Energy anticipates that it will continue to face competition from numerous companies in the industry, some of which may have more extensive operating experience, larger staffs, and greater financial resources than NRG Energy presently possesses. Many companies in the regulated utility industry, with which the independent power industry is closely linked, are also restructuring or reviewing their strategies. Several of these companies are discontinuing going forward with unregulated investments, seeking to divest of their unregulated subsidiaries or attempting to have their regulated subsidiaries acquire their unregulated subsidiaries. This may lead to an increased competition between the regulated utilities and the unregulated power producers within certain markets. In such instances, NRG Energy may compete with regulated utilities in the development of market designs and rulemaking. FERC, however, is attempting to level the competitive playing field between regulated utilities and unregulated energy suppliers by providing open, non discriminatory access to electricity markets and the transmission grid. In April 1996, FERC issued Orders 888 and 889 that required all public utilities to file open access transmission tariffs that give wholesale generators, as well as other wholesale sellers and buyers of electricity, access to transmission facilities on a non discriminatory basis. This led to the formation of the ISOs described above. On December 20, 1999, FERC issued Order 2000, encouraging the creation of Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs). Finally, on July 31, 2002, FERC issued its Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Standard Market Design. All three orders were intended to eliminate market discrimination by incumbent vertically integrated utilities and to provide for open access to the transmission grid. The full effect of these changes on NRG Energy is uncertain at this time, because in many parts of the United States, it has not been determined how entities will attempt to comply with FERCs initiatives. At this time, five ISOs have been approved and are operational; New England (ISO NE), New York (NYISO), Pennsylvania, NJ, Maryland, DE and parts of the midwest (collectively PJM), Central Midwest (MISO), South Central (SPP) and in California (CA ISO). Two of these ISOs, PJM and MISO, have been found to also qualify as RTOs. Three other entities have also requested that FERC approve their organizations as RTOs; WestConnect (Desert Southwest); RTO West (Pacific Northwest and Rockies) and Setrans (Southeast). NRG Energy is also impacted by rule/tariff changes that occur in the existing ISOs. On March 1, 2003, ISO NE implemented its version of Standard Market Design. This change dramatically modifies the New England market structure by incorporating Locational Marginal Pricing (LMP pricing by location rather than on a New England wide basis). Even though NRG Energy views this change as a significant improvement to the existing market design, NRG Energy still views the market within New England as insufficient to allow for NRG Energy to recover its costs and earn a reasonable return on investment. Consequently, on February 26, 2003, NRG Energy filed and requested a cost of service rate with FERC for most of its Connecticut fleet, requesting a February 27th effective date. NRG Energy remains committed to working with ISO NE, FERC and other stakeholders to continue to improve the New England market that will hopefully make further reliance on a cost of service rate unnecessary. While NRG Energy has the right to file for such rate treatment, there are no assurances that FERC will grant such rates in the form or amount that NRG Energy petitioned for in its filing. 14 Table of Contents On March 25, 2003, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued an order (the Order) in response to Devon Power LLCs, Middletown Power LLCs, Montville Power LLCs, and Norwalk Power LLCs (collectively, NRG Subsidiaries) Joint Motion for Emergency Expedited Issuance of Order by March 17, 2003 in Docket No. ER03 563 000 (the Emergency Motion). In the Emergency Motion, the NRG Subsidiaries requested that FERC accept the NRG Subsidiaries reliability must run agreements and assure the NRG Subsidiaries recovery of maintenance costs for their New England generating facilities prior to the peak summer season. FERC accepted the NRG Subsidiaries filing as to the recovery of spring 2003 maintenance costs, subject to refund. FERCs Order authorizes the ISO New England Inc. to begin collecting these maintenance costs in escrow for the benefit of the NRG Subsidiaries as of February 27, 2003. Several intervenors protested the Emergency Motion. FERC will rule on such protests and the other issues raised in the Emergency Motion in a subsequent order. In New York, NRG Energy anticipates that the NYISO will implement a demand curve in its capacity market. In PJM, NRG Energy is closely following market power mitigation modifications that may significantly impact the revenues achievable in that market by modifying PJMs price capping mechanisms. The potential modifications are unknown at this time, and it is unclear whether such changes would have a positive or a negative effect on NRG Energy. In the Midwest, it is anticipated that Exelon and AEP will join PJM and will transition to PJMs market model, although there have been certain regulatory obstacles affecting AEPs ability to join PJM. This will allow NRG Energy to market capacity and energy from its Chicago area assets more effectively. The other Midwest ISO, MISO, continues its market rule development as it moves toward a PJM styled market. MISO and PJM have signed a Memorandum of Understanding that lays out a common market design that both will employ. It is anticipated that PJM and MISO will operate a common market interface that will allow seamless trading between the two regions. MISO presently has operational control over the transmission facilities located within its footprint. In the Southeast, Entergy and Southern Company continue to support their RTO, Setrans. The future of Setrans is uncertain given the recent loss of the local municipal Santee Cooper. Finally, in California, the California Independent System Operator (CA ISO) continues to struggle with market design changes intended to prevent a repeat of past market dis function. It is unlikely that modification initially coined as Market Design 2002 (MDO2), will be implemented any sooner than 2004. Although numerous stakeholder meetings have been held, the final MDO2 design remains unknown at this time. In addition, numerous legislative initiatives in California create uncertainty and risk for NRG Energy. Most significantly, SB39XX mandates that the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) exercise jurisdiction over the maintenance of power producers. It is unclear at this time where that process will lead. Proposals have been introduced in Congress to repeal PURPA and PUHCA, and FERC has publicly indicated support for the PUHCA repeal effort. If the repeal of PURPA or PUHCA occurs, either separately or as part of legislation designed to encourage the broader introduction of wholesale and retail competition, the significant competitive advantages that independent power producers currently enjoy over certain regulated utility companies would be eliminated or sharply curtailed, and the ability of regulated utility companies to compete more directly with independent power companies would be increased. To the extent competitive pressures increase and the pricing and sale of electricity assumes more characteristics of a commodity business, the economics of domestic independent power generation projects may come under increasing pressure. Deregulation may not only continue to fuel the current trend toward consolidation among domestic utilities, but may also encourage the dis aggregation of vertically integrated utilities into separate generation, transmission and distribution businesses. In addition, the independent system operators who oversee most of the wholesale power markets have in the past imposed, and may in the future continue to impose, price limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in these markets. For example, the independent system operator for the New York power pool and the California independent system operator have imposed price limitations. These types of price limitations and other mechanisms in New York, California, the New England Power Pool and elsewhere may adversely impact the profitability of NRG Energys generation facilities that sell energy into the wholesale 15 Table of Contents power markets. Finally, the regulatory and legislative changes that have recently been enacted in a number of states in an effort to promote competition are novel and untested in many respects. These new approaches to the sale of electric power have very short operating histories, and it is not yet clear how they will operate in times of market stress or pressure, given the extreme volatility and lack of meaningful long term price history in many of these markets and the imposition of price limitations by independent system operators. Employees At December 31, 2002, NRG Energy had 3,173 employees, approximately 329 of whom are employed directly by NRG Energy and approximately 2,844 of whom are employed by its wholly owned subsidiaries and affiliates. Approximately 1,757 employees are covered by bargaining agreements. NRG Energy has experienced no significant labor stoppages or labor disputes at its facilities. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Information The information presented in this annual report includes forward looking statements in addition to historical information. These statements involve known and unknown risks and relate to future events, or projected business results. In some cases forward looking statements may be identified by their use of such words as may, expects, plans, anticipates, contemplates, believes, and similar terms. Forward looking statements are only predictions or expectations and actual results may differ materially from the expectations expressed in any forward looking statement. While NRG Energy believes that the expectations expressed in such forward looking statements are reasonable, NRG Energy can give no assurances that these expectations will prove to have been correct. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward looking statements, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward looking statements include, among others, the following: The possibility of a bankruptcy filing in the near future, either by NRG Energy or one or more of its subsidiaries, the entry of an order for relief by the Minnesota Bankruptcy Court in respect of the pending involuntary Chapter 11 petition in that court, or the filing of an involuntary bankruptcy petition in another court by a requisite number of creditors of NRG Energy or a subsidiary, as the case may be; NRG Energys ability or the ability of any of its subsidiaries to reach agreements with its lenders, creditors and other stakeholders regarding a comprehensive restructuring of NRG Energy; Cost and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; NRG Energys ability to sell assets in the amounts and on the timetable assumed; Trade, monetary, fiscal, taxation, and environmental policies of governments, agencies and similar organizations in geographic areas where NRG Energy has a financial interest; General economic conditions including inflation rates and monetary or currency exchange rate fluctuations; The effect on the U.S. economy as a consequence of an invasion of Iraq and other potential actions relating to the U.S. governments efforts to suppress terrorism; Customer business conditions including demand for their products or services and supply of labor and materials used in creating their products and services; Financial or regulatory accounting principles or policies imposed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and similar entities with regulatory oversight; Factors affecting power generation operations such as unusual weather conditions; catastrophic weather related or other damage to facilities; unscheduled generation outages, maintenance or repairs; unanticipated changes to fossil fuel, or gas supply costs or availability due to higher demand, shortages, 16 Table of Contents transportation problems or other developments; environmental incidents; or electric transmission or gas pipeline system constraints; Employee workforce factors including the hiring and retention of key executives, collective bargaining agreements with union employees, or work stoppages; Volatility of energy prices in a deregulated market environment; Increased competition in the power generation industry; Technological developments that result in competitive disadvantages and create the potential for impairment of existing assets; Factors associated with various investments including conditions of final legal closing, partnership actions, competition, operating risks, dependence on certain suppliers and customers and domestic and foreign environmental and energy regulations; Limitations on NRG Energys ability to control projects in which NRG Energy has less than 100% interest; Limited operating history at recently acquired or constructed projects provide only a limited basis for management to project the results of future operations; Risks associated with timely completion of projects under construction, including obtaining competitive commercial agreements, obtaining regulatory and permitting approvals, local opposition, construction delays and other factors beyond NRG Energys control; Failure to timely satisfy the closing conditions contained in the definitive agreements for the sale of projects subject to definitive agreements but not yet closed, many of which are beyond NRG Energys control; Factors challenging the successful integration of projects not previously owned or operated by NRG Energy, including the ability to obtain operating synergies; Factors associated with operating in foreign countries including: delays in permitting and licensing, construction delays and interruption of business, political instability, taxing regimes, risk of war, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, or nullification of existing contracts, changes in law, and the ability to convert foreign currency into United States dollars; Changes in government regulation or the implementation of new government regulations, including pending changes within or outside of California as a result of the California energy crisis, or the outcome of litigation pending in California and other western states, which could adversely affect the continued deregulation of the electric industry; Changes in market design or implementation of rules that affect NRG Energys ability to transmit or sell power in any market, including, without limitation, the failure of FERC to grant NRG Energy cost of service based rates on certain Connecticut generation facilities in the form and amount petitioned for in the Section 205 filing pursuant to the Federal Power Act. Other business or investment considerations that may be disclosed from time to time in NRG Energys Securities and Exchange Commission filings or in other publicly disseminated written documents, including NRG Energys Registration Statement No. 333 62958, as amended, and all supplements therein. NRG Energy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG Energys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward looking statements included in this annual report should not be construed as exhaustive. 17 Table of Contents Item 2 Properties Listed below are descriptions of NRG Energys interests in facilities, operations and or projects owned as of December 31, 2002. Independent Power Production and Cogeneration Facilities Net NRGs Owned Percentage Capacity Ownership Name and Location of Facility Purchaser/Power Market (MW) Interest Fuel Type Eastern: Oswego, New York Niagara Mohawk/NYISO 1,700 100% Oil/Gas Huntley, New York Niagara Mohawk/NYISO 760 100% Coal Dunkirk, New York Niagara Mohawk/NYISO 600 100% Coal Arthur Kill, New York NYISO 842 100% Gas/Oil Astoria Gas Turbines, New York NYISO 614 100% Gas/Oil Ilion, New York NYISO 57 100% Gas/Oil Somerset, Massachusetts Eastern Utilities Associates 160 100% Coal/Oil/Jet Middletown, Connecticut ISO NE 856 100% Oil/Gas/Jet Montville, Connecticut ISO NE 498 100% Oil/Gas Devon, Connecticut ISO NE 401 100% Gas/Oil/Jet Norwalk Harbor, Connecticut ISO NE 353 100% Oil Connecticut Jet Power, Connecticut ISO NE 127 100% Jet Other 6 projects Various 68 Various Various Indian River, Delaware Delmarva/PJM 784 100% Coal/Oil Dover, Delaware PJM 106 100% Gas/Coal Vienna, Maryland Delmarva/PJM 170 100% Oil Conemaugh, Pennsylvania PJM 64 3.72% Coal/Oil Keystone, Pennsylvania PJM 63 3.70% Coal/Oil Paxton Creek Cogeneration, Pennsylvania Virginia Electric & Power 12 100% Gas Commonwealth Atlantic PJM 188 50% Gas/Oil James River PJM 55 50% Coal Central Region: Big Cajun II, Louisiana Cooperatives/SERC Entergy 1,489 86.04% Coal Big Cajun I, Louisiana Cooperatives/SERC Entergy 458 100% Gas Bayou Cove, Louisiana SERC Entergy 320 100% Gas Sterlington, Louisiana Louisiana Generating 202 100% Gas Batesville, Mississippi SERC TVA 837 100% Gas McClain, Oklahoma SPP Southern 400 77% Gas Mustang, Texas Golden Spread Electric Coop 122 25% Gas Other 3 projects Various 45 Various Various Kendall, Illinois MAIN 1,168 100% Gas Rockford I, Illinois MAIN 342 100% Gas Rockford II, Illinois MAIN 171 100% Gas Rocky Road Power, Illinois MAIN 175 50% Gas Audrain, Missouri MAIN/SERC Entergy 640 100% Gas Other 2 projects Various 42 Various Various West Coast Region: El Segundo Power, California California DWR 335 50% Gas Encina, California California DWR 483 50% Gas/Oil Long Beach Generating, California California DWR 265 50% Gas San Diego Combustion Turbines, California Cal ISO 93 50% Gas/Oil Saguaro Power Co., Nevada Nevada Power 50 50% Gas/Oil Other North America: NEO Corporation, Various Various 197 71.49% Various Energy Investors Funds, Various Various 11 0.73% Various 18 Table of Contents Net NRGs Owned Percentage Capacity Ownership Name and Location of Facility Purchaser/Power Market (MW) Interest Fuel Type International Projects: Asia Pacific: Lanco Kondapalli Power, India(3) APTRANSCO 107 30% Gas/Oil Hsin Yu, Taiwan(3) Industrials 102 60% Gas Australia: Flinders, South Australia South Australian Pool 760 100% Coal Gladstone Power Station, Queensland Enertrade/Boyne Smelters 630 37.50% Coal Loy Yang Power A, Victoria Victorian Pool 507 25.37% Coal Europe: Killingholme Power A, UK(3) UK Electricity Grid 680 100% Gas Enfield Energy Centre, UK UK Electricity Grid 99 25% Gas/Oil Schkopau Power Station, Germany VEAG/Industrials 400 41.67% Coal MIBRAG mbH, Germany ENVIA/MIBRAG Mines 119 50% Coal ECK Generating, Czech Republic(3) STE/Industrials 166 44.50% Coal/Gas/Oil CEEP Fund, Poland Industrials 4.5 7.56% Gas/Coal Other Americas: TermoRio, Brazil Petrobras 520 50% Gas/Oil Itiquira Energetica, Brazil COPEL/Tradener 154 93.3% Hydro COBEE, Bolivia Electropaz/ELF 219 100% Hydro/Gas Energia Pacasmayo, Peru Electroperu/Peruvian Grid 66 100% Hydro/Oil Cahua, Peru Quimpac/Industrials 45 100% Hydro Latin Power, Various Various 52 6.75% Various Thermal Energy Production and Transmission Facilities and Resource Recovery Facilities NRGs Percentage Date of Ownership Thermal Energy Purchaser/MSW Name and Location of Facility Acquisition Net Owned Capacity(1) Interest Supplier NRG Energy Center Minneapolis, Minnesota 1993 Steam: 1,403 mmBtu/hr. (411 MWt) Chilled water: 42,450 tons (149 MWt) 100% Approximately 100 steam customers and 40 chilled water customers NRG Energy Center San Francisco, California 1999 Steam: 490 mmBtu/hr. (144 MWt) 100% Approximately 185 steam customers NRG Energy Center Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 2000 Steam: 490 mmBtu/hr. (144 MWt) Chilled water: 1,800 tons (8 MWt) 100% Approximately 295 steam customers and 2 chilled water customers NRG Energy Center Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 1999 Steam: 260 mmBtu/hr. (76 MWt) Chilled water: 12,580 tons (44 MWt) 100% Approximately 30 steam and 30 chilled water customers NRG Energy Center San Diego, California 1997 Chilled water: 8,000 tons (28 MWt) 100% Approximately 20 chilled water customers NRG Energy Center Rock Tenn, Minnesota 1992 Steam: 430 mmBtu/hr. (126 MWt) 100% Rock Tenn Company Camas Power Boiler, Washington 1997 Steam: 200 mmBtu/hr. (59 MWt) 100% Georgia Pacific Corp. 19 Table of Contents NRGs Percentage Date of Ownership Thermal Energy Purchaser/MSW Name and Location of Facility Acquisition Net Owned Capacity(1) Interest Supplier NRG Energy Center Dover, Delaware 2000 Steam: 190 mmBtu/hr. (56 MWt) 100% Kraft Foods Inc. NRG Energy Center Washco, Minnesota 1992 Steam: 160 mmBtu/hr. (47 MWt) 100% Andersen Corporation, Minnesota Correctional Facility Energy Center Kladno, Czech Republic(2)(3) 1994 227 mmBtu/hr. (67 MWt) 44.40% City of Kladno Resource Recovery Facilities Newport, Minnesota 1993 MSW: 1,500 tons/day 100% Ramsey and Washington Counties Elk River, Minnesota 2001 MSW: 1,275 tons/day 85% Anoka, Hennepin, and Sherburne Counties; Tri County Solid Waste Management Commission Penobscot Energy Recovery, Maine 1997 MSW: 590 tons/day 50% Bangor Hydroelectric Company (1) Thermal production and transmission capacity is based on 1,000 Btus per pound of steam production or transmission capacity. The unit mmBtu is equal to one million Btus. (2) Kladno also is included in the Independent Power Production and Cogeneration Facilities table on the preceding page, under the name ECK Generating. (3) Held for sale. See Significant Business and Asset Dispositions under Item 1. Other Properties In addition to the above, NRG Energy leases its corporate offices at 901 Marquette, Suite 2300, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402 and various other office spaces. NRG Energy also owns interests in other construction projects in various states of completion, the development of which has been terminated due to NRG Energys liquidity situation, as well as other properties not used for operational purposes. Item 3 Legal Proceedings Through March 2003, NRG Energy was involved in the following material legal proceedings. NRG Energy is vigorously defending itself in each of these matters. 20 Table of Contents California Wholesale Electricity Litigation and Related Investigations People of the State of California ex. rel. Bill Lockyer, Attorney General, v. Dynegy, Inc. et al., United States District Court, Northern District of California, Case No. C 02 O1854 VRW; United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, Case No. 02 16619. This action was filed in state court on March 11, 2002. It alleges that the defendants violated California Business & Professions Code 17200 by selling ancillary services to the California ISO, and subsequently selling the same capacity into the spot market. The Attorney General seeks injunctive relief as well as restitution, disgorgement and civil penalties. On April 17, 2002, the defendants removed the case to the United States District Court in San Francisco. Thereafter, the case was transferred to Judge Vaughn Walker, who is also presiding over various other ancillary services cases brought by the California Attorney General against other participants in the California market, as well as other lawsuits brought by the Attorney General against these other market participants. NRG Energy has tolling agreements in place with the Attorney General with respect to such other proposed claims against it. The Attorney General filed motions to remand, which the defendants opposed in July of 2002. In an Order filed in early September 2002, Judge Walker denied the remand motions. The Attorney General has appealed that decision to the United States Court of Appeal for the Ninth Circuit, and the appeal remains pending. The Attorney General also sought a stay of proceedings in the district court pending the appeal, and this request was also denied. A Notice of Bankruptcy Filing respecting NRG Energy was filed in the Ninth Circuit and in the District Court in mid December 2002. The Attorney General filed a paper asserting that the police power exception to the automatic stay is applicable here. Judge Walker agreed with the Attorney General on this issue. In a lengthy opinion filed March 25, 2003, Judge Walker dismissed the Attorney Generals action against NRG and Dynegy with prejudice, finding it was barred by the filed rate doctrine and preempted by federal law. The Attorney General has announced it will appeal the dismissal. NRG Energy is unable at this time to accurately estimate the damages sought by the Attorney General against NRG Energy and its affiliates, or predict the outcome of the case. A Notice of Bankruptcy Filing respecting NRG Energy was filed in the Ninth Circuit and in the District Court in mid December, 2002. The Attorney General filed a paper asserting that the police power exception to the automatic stay is applicable here. Public Utility District of Snohomish County v. Dynegy Power Marketing, Inc et al., Case No. 02 CV 1993 RHW, United States District Court, Southern District of California (part of MDL 1405). This action was filed against Dynegy, NRG Energy, Xcel Energy and several other market participants in the United States District Court in Los Angeles on July 15, 2002. The Complaint alleges violations of the California Business & Professions Code 16720 (the Cartwright Act) and Business & Professions Code 17200. The basic claims are price fixing and restriction of supply, and other market gaming activities. The action was transferred from Los Angeles to the United States District Court in San Diego and was made a part of the Multi District Litigation proceeding described below. All defendants filed motions to dismiss and to strike in the fall of 2002. In an Order dated January 6, 2003, the Honorable Robert Whaley, a federal judge from Spokane sitting in the United States District Court in San Diego, pursuant to the Order of the MDL Panel, granted the motions to dismiss on the grounds of federal preemption and filed rate doctrine. The plaintiffs have filed a notice of appeal. In re: Wholesale Electricity Antitrust Litigation, MDL 1405, United States District Court, Southern District of California, pending before Honorable Robert H. Whaley. The cases included in this proceeding are as follows: 1. Pamela R Gordon, on Behalf of Herself and All Others Similarly Situated v Reliant Energy, Inc. et al., Case No. 758487, Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Diego (filed on November 27, 2000). 21 Table of Contents 2. Ruth Hendricks, On Behalf of Herself and All Others Similarly Situated and On Behalf of the General Public v. Dynegy Power Marketing, Inc. et al., Case No. 758565, Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Diego (filed November 29,2000). 3. The People of the State of California, by and through San Francisco City Attorney Louise H. Renne v. Dynegy Power Marketing, Inc. et al., Case No. 318189, Superior Court of California, San Francisco County (filed January 18, 2001). 4. Pier 23 Restaurant, A California Partnership, On Behalf of Itself and All Others Similarly Situated v. PG&E Energy Trading et al., Case No. 318343, Superior Court of California, San Francisco County (filed January 24,2001). 5. Sweetwater Authority, et al. v. Dynegy Inc. et al., Case No. 760743, Superior Court of California, San Diego County (filed January 16, 2001). 6. Cruz M Bustamante, individually, and Barbara Matthews, individually, and on behalf of the general public and as a representative taxpayer suit, v. Dynegy Inc. et al., inclusive. Case No. BC249705, Superior Court of California, Los Angeles County (filed May 2, 2001). These cases were all filed in late 2000 and 2001 in various state courts throughout California. They allege unfair competition, market manipulation, and price fixing. All the cases were removed to the appropriate United States District Courts, and were thereafter made the subject of a petition to the Multi District Litigation Panel (Case No. MDL 1405). The cases were ultimately assigned to Judge Whaley. Judge Whaley entered an order in 2001 remanding the cases to state court, and thereafter the cases were coordinated pursuant to state court coordination proceedings before a single judge in San Diego Superior Court. The defendants filed motions to dismiss and to strike under the filed rate and federal preemption theories, and the plaintiffs challenged the district courts jurisdiction and sought to have the cases remanded to state court. In December 2002, Judge Whaley issued an opinion finding that federal jurisdiction was absent in the district court, and remanding the cases to state court. Duke and Reliant have filed a notice of appeal with the Ninth Circuit, and also sought a stay of the remand pending appeal. The stay request was denied by Judge Whaley. On February 20, 2003, however, the Ninth Circuit stayed the remand order and accepted jurisdiction to hear the appeal of Reliant and Duke on the remand order. The Company anticipates that filed rate/federal preemption pleading challenges will once again be filed once the remand appeal is decided. A Notice of Bankruptcy Filing respecting NRG Energy has also been filed in this action, providing notice of the involuntary petition. Northern California cases against various market participants, not including NRG Energy (part of MDL 1405). These include the Millar, Pastorino, RDJ Farms, Century Theatres, EI Super Burrito, Leos, J&M Karsant, and the Bronco Don cases. NRG Energy, Inc. was not named in any of these cases, but in virtually all of them, either West Coast Power or one or more of the operating LLCs with which the Company is indirectly affiliated is named as a defendant. These cases all allege violation of Business & Professions Code 17200, and are similar to the various allegations made by the Attorney General. Dynegy is named as a defendant in all these actions, and Dynegys outside counsel is representing both Dynegy and the West Coast Power entities in each of these cases. Pacific Northwest cases: Symonds v. Dynegy Power Marketing et al., United States District Court, Western District of Washington, Case No. CV02 2552; Lodewick v. Dynegy Power Marketing et al., Oregon Circuit Court Case No. 0212 12771. These cases were just recently asserted and contain similar claims to those found in the California cases described above. There has been little activity in either case. Bustamante v. McGraw Hill Companies Inc., et al., No. BC 285598, California Superior Court, Los Angeles County This putative class action lawsuit was filed on November 20, 2002. In addition to naming WCP related entities as defendants, numerous industry participants are named in this lawsuit that are unrelated to WCP or NRG Energy. The Complaint generally alleges that the defendants attempted to manipulate gas indexes by reporting false and fraudulent trades. Named defendants in the suit are the LLCs established by WCP for 22 Table of Contents each of its four plants: El Segundo Power, LLC; Long Beach Generation, LLC; Cabrillo Power I LLC; and Cabrillo Power II LLC. NRG Energy is not named as a defendant. The complaint seeks restitution and disgorgement of ill gotten gains, civil fines, compensatory and punitive damages, attorneys fees, and declaratory and injunctive relief. Dynegy has agreed with NRG Energy that it will indemnify and hold harmless the named defendants in the Bustamante lawsuit, as well as NRG Energy, from any civil fines, compensatory damages, punitive damages, costs, and fees that may be entered pursuant to either a final judgment or a settlement of claims. Dynegy has also agreed that it will pay all costs and attorneys fees associated with the defense of the named defendants in the Bustamante lawsuit, as well as any defense costs for NRG Energy. Investigations FERC California Market Manipulation The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has an ongoing Investigation of Potential Manipulation of Electric and Natural Gas Prices, which involves hundreds of parties and substantial discovery. In June, 2001, FERC initiated proceedings related to Californias demand for $8.9 billion in refunds from power sellers who allegedly inflated wholesale prices during the energy crisis. Hearings have been conducted before an administrative law judge who issued an opinion in late 2002. The administrative law judge stated that after assessing a refund of $1.8 billion for unjust and unreasonable power prices between October 2, 2000 and June 20, 2001, power suppliers were owed $1.2 billion because the State was holding funds owed to suppliers. In August, 2002, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals granted a request by the Electricity Oversight Board, the California Public Utilities Commission, and others, to seek out and introduce to FERC additional evidence of market manipulation by wholesale sellers. This decision resulted in FERC ordering an additional 100 days of discovery in the refund proceeding, and also allowing the relevant time period for potential refund liability to extend back an additional nine months, to January 1, 2000. On December 12, 2002, FERC Administrative Law Judge Birchman issued a Certification of Proposed Findings on California Refund Liability in Docket No. EL00 95 045 et al., which determined the method for the mitigated energy market clearing price during each hour of the refund period. On March 26, 2003, FERC issued an Order on Proposed Findings on Refund Liability in Docket No. EL00 95 045 (Refund Order), adopting, in part, and modifying, in part, the Proposed Findings issued by Judge Birchman on December 12, 2002. In the Refund Order, FERC adopted the refund methodology in the Staff Final Report on Price Manipulation in Western Markets issued contemporaneously with the Refund Order in Docket No. PA02 2 000. This refund calculation methodology makes certain changes to Judge Birchmans methodology, because of FERC Staffs findings of manipulation in gas index prices. This could materially increase the estimated refund liability. The Refund Order also directs generators that want to recover any fuel costs above the mitigated market clearing price during the refund period to submit cost information justifying such recovery within forty (40) days of the issuance of the Refund Order. FERC announced in the Refund Order that it expects that refunds will be paid by suppliers by the end of summer 2003. California Attorney General In addition to the litigation it has undertaken described above, the California Attorney General has undertaken an investigation entitled In the Matter of the Investigation of Possibly Unlawful, Unfair, or Anti Competitive Behavior Affecting Electricity Prices in California. In this connection, the Attorney General has issued subpoenas to Dynegy, served interrogatories on Dynegy and NRG Energy, and informally requested documents and interviews from Dynegy and Dynegy employees as well as NRG Energy and NRG Energy employees. NRG Energy responded to the interrogatories last summer, with the final set of responses being served on September 3, 2002. NRG Energy has also produced a large volume of documentation relating to the West Coast Power plants. In addition, three NRG Energy employees in California have sat for informal interviews with representatives of the Attorney Generals office. Dynegy employees have also been inter 23 Table of Contents viewed. The Attorney Generals office has requested an additional interview with NRG Energys plant manager of El Segundo. Although any evaluation of the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome or an estimate of the amount or range of potential loss in the above referenced private actions and various investigations cannot be made at this time, NRG Energy notes that the Gordon complaint alleges that the defendants, collectively, overcharged California ratepayers during 2000 by $4.0 billion. NRG Energy knows of no evidence implicating NRG Energy in plaintiffs allegations of collusion. NRG Energy cannot predict the outcome of these cases and investigations at this time. The Minnesota Involuntary Bankruptcy Case On November 22, 2002, a petition commencing an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding pursuant to Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code was filed by five of NRG Energys former officers, Brian Bird, Leonard Bluhm, Craig Mataczynski, John Noer and David Peterson in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Minnesota. Roy Hewitt and James Bender subsequently joined in the petition. NRG Energy has subsequently filed an answer and a motion to dismiss the Involuntary Case. The court will consider the motion to dismiss. In their petition filed with the Minnesota Bankruptcy Court, the petitioners sought recovery of severance and other benefits in an aggregate amount of $27.7 million. Since the commencement of the Minnesota involuntary case, NRG Energy and its counsel have been involved in extensive negotiations with the petitioners and their counsel. As a result of these negotiations, NRG Energy and the petitioners reached an agreement and compromise regarding their respective claims against each other. On February 17, 2003, the Settlement Agreement was executed by the Petitioners and NRG Energy, pursuant to which NRG Energy agreed to pay the Petitioners an aggregate settlement in the amount of $12.2 million. On February 28, 2003, Stone & Webster, Inc. and Shaw Constructors, Inc. filed a Joinder in Involuntary Petition alleging that they hold unsecured, non contingent claims against NRG Energy, in a joint amount of $100 million. On March 20, 2003, Connecticut Light & Power Company filed an opposition to the NRG Energy motion to dismiss the Involuntary Case. The Minnesota Bankruptcy Court has discretion in reviewing and ruling on the motion to dismiss and the review and approval of the settlement agreement. There is a risk that the Minnesota Bankruptcy Court may, among other things, reject the settlement agreement or enter an order for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, thus commencing a Chapter 11 case for NRG Energy. Fortistar Capital Inc. v. NRG Energy, Inc., Hennepin County District Court. On July 12, 1999, Fortistar Capital Inc. sued NRG Energy in Minnesota state court. The complaint sought injunctive relief and damages of over $50 million resulting from NRG Energys alleged breach of a letter agreement with Fortistar relating to the Oswego power plant. NRG Energy asserted counterclaims. After considerable litigation, the parties entered into a conditional, confidential settlement agreement, which was subject to necessary board and lender approvals. NRG Energy was unable to obtain necessary approvals. Fortistar has moved the court to enforce the settlement, seeking damages in excess of $35 million plus interest and attorneys fees. NRG Energy is opposing Fortistars motion on the grounds that conditions to contract performance have not been satisfied. No decision has been made on the pending motion, and NRG Energy cannot predict the outcome of this dispute. Fortistar RICO Claims/ Indemnity Requests On Feb. 26, 2003, Fortistar Capital, Inc. and Fortistar Methane, LLC filed a lawsuit in the Federal District Court for the Northern District of New York against Xcel Energy and five present or former NRG Energy or NEO officers and employees. NRG Energy is a wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy, and NEO is a wholly owned subsidiary of NRG Energy. In the lawsuit, Fortistar claims that the defendants violated the 24 Table of Contents Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and committed fraud by engaging in a pattern of negotiating and executing agreements they intended not to comply with and made false statements later to conceal their fraudulent promises. The plaintiffs allege damages of some $350 million and also assert entitlement to a trebling of these damages under the provisions of the RICO Act. The present and former NRG Energy and NEO officers and employees have requested indemnity from NRG Energy, which requests NRG Energy is now examining. NRG Energy cannot at this time estimate the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome to the defendants in this lawsuit. NEO Corporation, a Minnesota corporation on behalf of Itself and on behalf of Minnesota Methane, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company v. Fortistar Methane, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Hennepin County District Court NEO Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of NRG Energy, brought this lawsuit in January of 2001. NEO has asserted claims for breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions, defamation, business disparagement and derivative claims. Fortistar Methane, LLC denied NEOs claims and counterclaimed alleging breach of contract, fraud, negligent misrepresentation and breach of warranty. NEO has denied Fortistar Methanes claims and intends to pursue its claims. Discovery has not been conducted. The parties entered into a conditional, confidential settlement of this matter and the Fortistar Capital action, described above. The agreement, however, was subject to necessary board and lender approvals. NEO was unable to obtain necessary approvals. Fortistar Methane has moved to enforce the settlement, seeking damages against NRG Energy in excess of $35 million plus interest and attorneys fees. NRG Energy and NEO are opposing Fortistars motion on the grounds that conditions to contract performance were not met. No decision has been rendered on the pending motion. NRG Energy cannot predict the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome. Connecticut Light & Power Company v. NRG Power Marketing Inc., Docket No. 3:01 CV 2373 (A WT), pending in the United States District Court, District of Connecticut This matter involves a claim by Connecticut Light & Power Company for recovery of amounts it claims is owing for congestion charges under the terms of a Standard Offer Services contract between the parties, dated October 29, 1999. CL&P has served and filed its motion for summary judgment to which NRG Power Marketing filed a response on March 21, 2003. CL&P has offset approximately $30 million from amounts owed to NRG Power Marketing claiming that it has the right to offset those amounts under the contract. NRG Power Marketing has counterclaimed seeking to recover those amounts, arguing among other things that CL&P has no rights under the contract to offset them. NRG Power Marketing cannot estimate at this time the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome in this matter, or the overall exposure for congestion charges for the full term of the contract. The State of New York and Erin M. Crotty, as Commissioner of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation v. Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation et al., United States District Court for the Western District of New York, Civil Action No. 02 CV 002S In January, 2002, NRG Energy and Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation (NiMo) were sued by the New York Department of Environmental Conservation in federal court in New York. The complaint asserts that projects undertaken at NRG Energys Huntley and Dunkirk plants by NiMo, the former owner of the facilities, should have been permitted pursuant to the Clean Air Act and that the failure to do so violated federal and state laws. In July, 2002, NRG Energy filed a motion to dismiss. The motion is still pending before the judge and there has been no further action taken in connection with the case. On March 27, 2003 the court dismissed the complaint against NRG Energy without prejudice. It is possible the state will appeal this dismissal to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals or re file a case against NRG Energy. If the case ultimately is litigated to a judgment and there is an unfavorable outcome that could not be addressed through use of compliant fuels and or a plantwide applicability limit, NRG Energy has estimated that the total investment that would be required to install pollution control devices could be as high as $300 million over a ten to twelve year period, and NRG Energy may be responsible for payment of certain penalties and fines. 25 Table of Contents Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation v. NRG Energy, Inc., Huntley Power, LLC, and Dunkirk Power, LLC, Supreme Court, State of New York, County of Onondaga, Case No. 2001 4372 NRG Energy has asserted that NiMo is obligated to indemnify it for any related compliance costs associated with resolution of the enforcement action. NiMo has filed suit in state court in New York seeking a declaratory judgment with respect to its obligations to indemnify NRG Energy under the asset sales agreement. Huntley Power LLC, Dunkirk Power LLC and Oswego Harbor Power LLC All three of these facilities have been issued Notices of Violation with respect to opacity exceedances. NRG Energy has been engaged in consent order negotiations with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation relative to opacity issues affecting all three facilities periodically since 1999. One proposed consent order was forwarded by DEC under cover of a letter dated January 22, 2002, which makes reference to 7,890 violations at the three facilities and contains a proposed payable penalty for such violations of $900,000. On February 5, 2003, DEC sent to us a proposed Schedule of Compliance and asserted that it is to be used in conjunction with newly drafted consent orders. NRG Energy has not yet received the consent orders although NRG Energy has been told by DEC that DEC is now seeking a penalty in excess of that cited in its January 22, 2002 letter. NRG Energy expects to continue negotiations with DEC regarding the proposed consent orders, including the Schedule of Compliance and the penalty amount. NRG Energy cannot predict whether those discussions with the DEC will result in a settlement and, if they do, what sanctions will be imposed. In the event that the consent order negotiations are unsuccessful, NRG Energy does not know what relief DEC will seek through an enforcement action and what the result of such action will be. Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation v. Dunkirk Power LLC, et al., Supreme Court, Erie County, Index No. 1 2000 8681 On October 2, 2000, plaintiff Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation commenced this action against NRG Energy to recover damages, plus late fees, less payments received, through the date of judgment, as well as any additional amounts due and owing for electric service provided to the Dunkirk Plant after September 18, 2000. Plaintiff Niagara Mohawk claims that NRG Energy has failed to pay retail tariff amounts for utility services commencing on or about June 11, 1999 and continuing to September 18, 2000 and thereafter. Plaintiff has alleged breach of contract, suit on account, violation of statutory duty, and unjust enrichment claims. On or about October 23, 2000, NRG Energy served an answer denying liability and asserting affirmative defenses. After proceeding through discovery, and prior to trial, the parties and the court entered into a stipulation and order filed August 9, 2002 consolidating this action with two other actions against the Companys Huntley and Oswego subsidiaries, both of which cases assert the same claims and legal theories for failure to pay retail tariffs for utility services. On October 8, 2002, a Stipulation and Order was filed in the Erie County Clerks Office staying this action pending submission of some or all of the disputes in the action to the FERC. NRG Energy cannot make an evaluation of the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome. The cumulative potential loss could exceed $35 million. Pointe Coupee Parish Police Jury and Louisiana Generating, LLC v. United States Environmental Protection Agency and Christine Todd Whitman, Administrator, Adversary Proceeding No. 02 61021 on the docket of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit On December 2, 2002, a Petition for Review was filed to appeal the United States Environmental Protection Agencys approval of the Louisiana Department of Environmental Qualitys (DEQ) revisions to the Baton Rouge State Implementation Plan (SIP). Pointe Coupee and NRG Energys subsidiary, Louisiana Generating, object to the approval of SIP Section 4.2.1. Permitting NOx Sources that purports to require DEQ to obtain offsets of major increases in emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) associated with major modifications of existing facilities or construction of new facilities both in the Baton Rouge Ozone Nonattainment Area and in four adjoining attainment parishes referred to as the Region of Influence, 26 Table of Contents including Pointe Coupee Parish. The plaintiffs challenge is based on DEQs failure to comply with Administrative Procedures Act requirements related to rulemaking and EPAs regulations which prohibit EPA from approving a SIP not prepared in accordance with state law. The court granted a sixty (60) day stay of this proceeding on February 25, 2003 to allow the parties to conduct settlement discussions. At this time, NRG Energy is unable to predict the eventual outcome of this matter or the potential loss contingencies, if any, to which the Company may be subject. In the Matter of Louisiana Generating, LLC, Adversary Proceeding No. 2002 1095 1 EQ on the docket of the Louisiana Division of Administrative Law During 2000, DEQ issued a Part 70 Air Permit modification to Louisiana Generating to construct and operate two 240 MW natural gas fired turbines. The Part 70 Air Permit set emissions limits for the criteria air pollutants, including NOx, based on the application of Best Available Control Technology (BACT). The BACT limitation for NOx was based on the guarantees of the manufacturer, Siemens Westinghouse. Louisiana Generating sought an interim emissions limit to allow Siemens Westinghouse time to install additional control equipment. To establish the interim limit, DEQ issued a Compliance Order and Notice of Potential Penalty, No. AE CN 02 0022, on September 8, 2002, which is, in part, subject to the referenced administrative hearing. DEQ alleged that Louisiana Generating did not meet its NOx emissions limit on certain days, did not conduct all opacity monitoring and did not complete all record keeping and certification requirements. Louisiana Generating intends to vigorously defend certain claims and any future penalty assessment, while also seeking an amendment of its limit for NOx. An initial status conference has been held with the Administrative Law Judge and quarterly reports will be submitted to describe progress, including settlement and amendment of the limit. In addition, NRG Energy may assert breach of warranty claims against the manufacturer. With respect to the administrative action described above, at this time NRG Energy is unable to predict the eventual outcome of this matter or the potential loss contingencies, if any, to which the Company may be subject. NRG Sterlington Power, LLC During 2002, NRG Sterlington conducted a review of the Sterlington Power Facilitys Part 70 Air Permit obtained by the facilitys former owner and operator, Koch Power, Inc. Koch had outlined a plan to install eight 25 megawatt (MW) turbines to reach a 200 MW limit in the permit. Due to the inability of several units to reach their nameplate capacity, Koch determined that it would need additional units to reach the electric output target. In August 2000, NRG Sterlington acquired the remaining interests in the facility not originally held on a passive basis and sought the transfer of the Part 70 Air Permit along with a modification to incorporate two 17.5 MW turbines installed by Koch and to increase the total number of turbines to ten. The permit modification was issued February 13, 2002. During further review, NRG Sterlington determined that a ninth unit had been installed prior to issuance of the permit modification. In keeping with its environmental policy, it disclosed this matter to DEQ during April, 2002. Additional information was provided during July 2002. As DEQ has not acted to date to institute an enforcement proceeding, NRG Energy suspects that it may not. However, as it is not time barred from doing so, NRG Energy is unable at this time to predict the eventual outcome or potential loss contingencies, if any, to which the Company may be subject. FERC Investigation of Saguaro Power Company On February 24, 2003, FERC initiated an investigation into whether Saguaro Power Company satisfied or currently satisfies the statutory and regulatory requirements for a qualifying facility under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (PURPA). PURPA provides special benefits for qualifying facilities regarding their rights to sell the electrical output of generation projects to electric utilities and exempts qualifying facilities from certain state and federal regulation. NRG Energys wholly owned subsidiary, Eastern Sierra Power Company, owns a 49% general partnership interest and a 1% limited partnership interest in Saguaro. The FERC Order initiating the investigation notes that certain financing arrangements between Enron North America and Boulder Power LLC, an indirect owner of a 14% general partnership interest and a 1% limited partnership interest in Saguaro, may have caused Saguaro not to meet the limitations on electric 27 Table of Contents utility ownership applicable to qualifying facilities under PURPA and FERC regulations. At this time, NRG Energy is unable to predict the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome of this matter or the remedies that the FERC would impose in the event it found that Sagauro did not or does not satisfy the requirements for a qualifying facility. Stone & Webster, Inc. and Shaw Constructors, Inc. v. NRG Energy, Inc. et al. On October 17, 2002, Stone & Webster, Inc. and Shaw Constructors, Inc. filed a lawsuit against NRG Energy, Xcel Energy, Inc., NRG Granite Acquisition LLC, Granite Power Partners II LP and two of Xcel Energys executives relating to the construction of a power plant in Pike County, Mississippi. Plaintiffs generally allege that they were not paid for work performed to construct the power plant, and have sued the parent entities of the company with which they contracted to build the plant in order to recover amounts allegedly owing. Plaintiffs assert claims for breach of fiduciary duty, piercing the corporate veil, breach of contract, tortious interference with contract, enforcement of the NRG Energy guaranty, detrimental reliance, negligent or intentional misrepresentation, conspiracy, and aiding and abetting. On December 23, 2002, NRG Energy moved to dismiss the complaint in its entirety for failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted. NRG Energy is currently awaiting plaintiffs response to the motion. No trial date has yet been set in this matter and NRG Energy cannot presently predict the outcome of the dispute. The Mississippi Involuntary Case On October 17, 2002, a petition commencing an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding pursuant to Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code was filed against LSP Pike Energy, LLC, a subsidiary of NRG Energy, by Stone & Webster, Inc. and Shaw Constructors, Inc. the joining petitioners in the Minnesota involuntary case described above in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Mississippi. In their petition filed with the Mississippi Bankruptcy Court, the joining petitioners sought recovery of allegedly unpaid contractual construction related obligations in an aggregate amount of $73,833,328, which amount LSP Pike Energy, LLC has disputed. LSP Pike Energy, LLC filed an answer to the petition in the Mississippi involuntary case and served various interrogatory and deposition discovery requests on the joining petitioners. The Mississippi Bankruptcy Court has not entered any order for relief in the Mississippi involuntary case. FirstEnergy Arbitration Claim On November 29, 2001, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, The Toledo Edison Company and FirstEnergy Ventures (Sellers) entered into Purchase and Sale Agreements with NRG Able Acquisition LLC, which were guaranteed by NRG (collectively, Purchasers), for the purchase of certain power plants for approximately $1.5 billion. On August 8, 2002, Sellers terminated the agreements and asserted that Purchasers were liable for anticipatory breach of the Purchase and Sale Agreements on the grounds that they could not finance the purchases. On August 8, 2002, Purchasers provided notice that they disagreed with Sellers assertion. After Sellers filed a motion seeking a waiver of the automatic stay of Section 362(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, on February 21, 2003, Sellers, NRG Energy, and NRG Northern Ohio Generating LLC, f/k/a/ NRG Able, stipulated to the United States Bankruptcy Court, District of Minnesota, that they would agree to a waiver of the automatic stay, thereby allowing Sellers to commence arbitration against Purchasers regarding their dispute. The collection of any award, however, would remain fully subject to NRG Energys automatic stay. The Bankruptcy Court approved the stipulation. On February 26, 2002, Sellers provided notice of their intent to commence arbitration proceedings against Purchasers. Sellers have yet to quantify their damage claim, though Sellers have stated publicly that they will seek to recover several hundred million dollars. NRG Energy cannot presently predict the outcome of this dispute. General Electric Company and Siemens Westinghouse Turbine Purchase Disputes NRG Energy and or its affiliates have entered into several turbine purchase agreements with affiliates of General Electric Company and Siemens Westinghouse Power Corporation. GE and Siemens have notified NRG Energy that it is in default under certain of those contracts, terminated such contracts, and demanded 28 Table of Contents that NRG Energy pay the termination fees set forth in such contracts. GEs claim amounts to $120 million and Siemens approximately $45 million in cumulative termination charges. NRG Energy cannot at this time estimate the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes in these disputes. Itiquira Energetica, S.A. NRG Energys indirectly controlled Brazilian project company, Itiquira Energetica S.A., the owner of a 156MW hydro project in Brazil, is currently in arbitration with the former EPC contractor for the project, Inepar Industria e Construcoes (Inepar). The dispute was commenced by Itiquira in September, 2002 and pertains to certain matters arising under the former EPC contract. Itiquira principally asserts that Inepar breached the contract and caused damages to Itiquira by (i) failing to meet milestones for substantial completion; (ii) failing to provide adequate resources to meet such milestones; (iii) failing to pay subcontractors amounts due; and (iv) being insolvent. Itiquiras arbitration claim is for approximately US$40 million. Inepar has asserted in the arbitration that Itiquira breached the contact and caused damages to Inepar by failing to recognize events of force majeure as grounds for excused delay and extensions of scope of services and material under the contract. Inepars damage claim is for approximately US$10 million. On November 12, 2002, Inepar submitted its affirmative statement of claim, and Itiquira submitted its response and statement of counterclaims on December 14, 2002. Inepar replied to Itiquiras response and counterclaims on January 14, 2003. Itiquira is to submit its reply to Inepars January 14 filing on March 14, 2003, and a hearing was held on March 21, 2003. NRG Energy cannot at this time estimate the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome in this dispute. NRG Energy Credit Defaults NRG Energy and various of its subsidiaries are in default under various of their credit facilities, financial instruments, construction agreements and other contracts, which have given rise to liens, claims and contingencies against them and may in the future give rise to additional liens, claims and contingencies against them. In addition, NRG Energy and various of its subsidiaries have entered into various guarantees, equity contribution agreements, and other financial support agreements with respect to the obligations of their affiliates, which have given rise to liens, claims and contingencies against them and may in the future give rise to additional liens, claims and contingencies against the party or parties providing the financial support. NRG Energy cannot at this time predict the outcome or financial impact of these matters. Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders No matters were considered during the fourth quarter of 2002. PART II Item 5 Market Price for the Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Quarterly Stock Data During the period May 31, 2000 through June 3, 2002, NRG Energys common stock was traded principally on the New York Stock Exchange (the Exchange). The common stock was first traded on the Exchange on May 31, 2000, concurrent with the underwritten initial public offering of shares of NRG Energys common stock at an initial price to the public of $15.00 per share. In June 2002 following the exchange of all publicly held shares for Xcel Energy stock, trading of NRG Energy common stock was terminated. There is no longer an established public trading market for NRG Energys common equity. Holders All shares of NRG Energy common stock and Class A common stock are owned by Xcel Energy Wholesale Group Inc. 29 Table of Contents Dividends on Common Stock NRG Energy has not paid and does not currently intend to distribute any earnings as dividends. Item 6 Selected Financial Data The following table presents selected financial data of NRG Energy. The data included in the following table has been restated to reflect the assets, liabilities and results of operations of certain projects that have met the criteria for treatment of discontinued operation. For additional information refer to Item 15 Note 5 of the accompanying financial statements. This historical data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes thereto in Item 15 and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7. Year Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (In thousands) Total operating revenues and equity earnings 2,281,149 2,411,459 1,810,138 491,689 173,673 Write downs and losses on equity method investments 196,192 Special charges 2,656,093 Total operating costs and expenses 4,869,165 1,793,503 1,326,474 384,781 122,206 Income/(loss) from continuing operations (2,907,661 ) 218,212 150,929 57,501 37,858 Income/(loss) from discontinued operations (556,621 ) 46,992 32,006 (306 ) 3,874 Net Income/(loss) (3,464,282 ) 265,204 182,935 57,195 41,732 Total assets 10,883,688 12,913,597 5,978,992 3,431,892 1,293,477 Long term debt, including current maturities 8,385,867 7,492,790 3,205,420 1,716,860 626,476 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Due to the factors discussed below, as well as other matters discussed herein, NRG Energys financial condition has deteriorated significantly in the recent past. See Liquidity below. As a result, NRG Energy does not contemplate that it will have sufficient funds to make required principal and interest payments on its corporate debt, which means that NRG Energy will remain in default of the various corporate level debt obligations discussed more fully herein. In the absence of a consensual out of court restructuring or a Chapter 11 reorganization, it is highly likely that NRG Energy will be required to commence chapter 11 bankruptcy cases to allow it to implement its own plan of reorganization. The commencement of a voluntary chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding without a consensual plan of reorganization will increase the possibility of a prolonged bankruptcy proceeding. Industry Dynamics An unregulated merchant power company in the United States can be characterized in two ways, as a generator or as an energy merchant, with some companies having characteristics of both. In the United States generators are either outgrowths of regulated utilities, developers or are independent aggregators of plants divested by utilities. Generators have grown through acquisitions or the construction of new power plants. Energy merchants have emphasized risk management and trading skills over the ownership of physical assets. Energy deregulation paved the way for development of these companies, with utilities in some regions forced to sell off some of their generating capacity and buy electricity on the wholesale market or through power procurement agreements. 30 Table of Contents Both generators and energy merchants prospered in the late 1990s. Starting in 1999, however, a number of factors began to arise which had a negative effect on the business model for merchant power companies. These factors included: California When California restructured its electricity industry in the mid 1990s, it required utilities to sell generation assets and buy electricity on the wholesale spot market, without the stability of long term contracts. At the time, California had adequate supplies of power, but the State of California was experiencing unusually high electricity demand growth while new capacity additions were not keeping pace. Supply began to lag behind demand, and previously moderate weather gave way to dryer conditions, reducing hydroelectric supply. Shortages and blackouts ensued in 1999 and 2000. Meanwhile, as wholesale electricity prices moved higher, utilities were not allowed to pass higher costs on to consumers under Californias regulatory regime. Utilities were unable to bear the financial burden, PG&E sought Chapter 11 protection, and California took over the role of procuring electricity for the utilities. Politicians have criticized the electricity generators and the energy merchants, accusing them of improperly manipulating supply, demand and market rules. Merchant power companies in California are now embroiled in protracted litigation with California and private parties, which is discouraging new investment. Economy The United States economy, already headed towards a recession by mid 2001, suffered a heavy blow on September 11, 2001. This, along with a decrease in economically driven electricity demand, exacerbated the drop in stock valuations of the energy merchants. Other regions of the world economy have suffered problems as well, which has exposed companies with international assets to losses based on severe currency fluctuations. Weather On the whole, the summer of 2001, the winter of 2001/2002 and the summer of 2002 were mild in the United States. This together with excessive new construction in many markets has driven down energy prices significantly. Enron The bankruptcy of Enron has devastated the merchant power industry. The public and political perception created by Enron put a stigma on the industry, drove investors away and increased scrutiny of the industry. Enron also played a key role in the energy trading markets, providing a widely used electronic trading platform that accounted for an enormous amount of trading volume. No other company has stepped in to fill this role, and as a result the electricity markets have become far less efficient and liquid. Credit ratings The credit rating agencies were sharply criticized for not foreseeing Enrons problems. As a result, the agencies have been quick to scrutinize the rest of the industry, and have tightened their criteria for creditworthiness. The agencies have downgraded most, if not all, of the industry participants. Many of these downgrades were severe ratings at times were dropped several notches at once, or dropped more than once in a span of weeks. This has resulted in most of the energy companies, generators and merchants having non investment grade credit ratings at this time. Oversupply As wholesale electricity prices and market liquidity increased in the late 1990s the industry went on a building boom. Through 2001 capital was readily available for the industry, encouraging companies to build new generation facilities. The years 2000 and 2001 saw record megawatt capacity additions in the United States, and record years were on the horizon for 2002 and 2003. Even with steady economic growth this would have created an oversupply of generation. Limited economic growth and recession have exacerbated the oversupply situation. Results of Operations For the Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2001 Net Loss During the year ended December 31, 2002, NRG Energy recognized a net loss of $3,464.3 million. This loss represented a decrease in earnings of $3,729.5 million compared to net income of $265.2 million for the same period in 2001. NRG Energys loss from continuing operations was $2,907.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to net income of $218.2 million from continuing operations for the same period 31 Table of Contents in 2001. The loss from continuing operations incurred during 2002 primarily consists of $2,656.1 million of special charges comprised primarily of asset impairments. During 2002, NRG Energys continuing operations experienced less favorable results than those experienced during the same period 2001. Overall, NRG Energys domestic power generation operations were less favorable than compared to the same period in 2001. NRG Energys domestic operations experienced reductions in domestic energy and capacity sales and an overall decrease in power pool prices and related spark spreads (the monetary difference between the price of power and fuel cost). During the fourth quarter of 2002, an additional reserve for uncollectible receivables in California was established by West Coast Power, which reduced NRG Energys equity earnings by approximately $58.5 million on a pre tax basis. In addition, West Coast Powers results were already less than those recorded in 2001 due to less favorable contracts and reductions in sales of energy and capacity. In addition, increased administrative costs, depreciation and interest expense from completed construction costs also contributed to the less than favorable results in 2002. Partially off setting these earnings reductions was the recognition, in the fourth quarter of 2002, of approximately $51 million of additional revenues related to the contractual termination of a power purchase agreement with NRG Energys Indian River project. During the third quarter of 2002, NRG Energy experienced credit rating downgrades, defaults under certain credit agreements, increased collateral requirements and reduced liquidity. These events led to impairments on a number of NRG Energy assets, resulting in pre tax charges related to continuing operations of approximately $2,544.8 million during 2002. In addition, approximately $196.2 million of net losses on sales and write downs of equity method investments were recorded in 2002. Operating results of majority owned projects that were sold or have met the criteria to be considered as held for sale have been classified as discontinued operations. As of December 31, 2002, NRG Energys Killingholme project and Hsin Yu project were classified as held for sale. The sales of Bulo Bulo, Csepel, Entrade and Crockett had been completed. In addition, the sale of NRG Energys investments in Mt. Poso, Collinsville, EDL, Sabine River Works, Kingston and NEO MESI had also taken place. The sale of NRG Energys investment in ECKG was pending at the end of 2002, and was completed in January 2003, along with the transfer of NRG Energys ownership interest in the Killingholme and the transfer of the ownership interest in the Brazos Valley project to its lenders. During 2002, NRG Energy expensed approximately $111.3 million in 2002 for costs related to its financial restructuring. These costs include expenses for financial and legal advisors, contract termination costs, employee separation and other restructuring activities. Revenues and Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates During 2002, total operating revenues and equity earnings from continuing operations were $2,281.1 million compared to $2,411.5 million in the prior year, a decrease of $130.4 million, or 5.4%. The primary reason for this decrease was a reduction in Equity earnings from unconsolidated affiliates of $141.0 million. The $141.0 million decrease in equity earnings from unconsolidated affiliates is due primarily to lower results at West Coast Power in 2002 as compared to the same period in 2001. During 2002, West Coast Power had long term contracts that were less favorable than those held in 2001. In addition during 2002, West Coast Power also established reserves for certain receivables not considered recoverable. NRG Energys share of this reserve was approximately $58.5 million on a pre tax basis. Revenues from Majority Owned Operations NRG Energys operating revenues from majority owned operations were $2,212.2 million in 2002 compared to $2,201.4 million in the prior year, an increase of $10.8 million or approximately 0.5%. Revenues from majority owned operations for the year ended December 31, 2002, consisted primarily of power generation revenues from domestic operations of approximately $1,650.9 million in 2002 compared with $1,679.6 million in 2001, a decrease of $28.7 million. This decrease in domestic generation revenue is due to reductions in energy and capacity sales and an overall decrease in power pool prices. 32 Table of Contents Within the North American Segment, NRG Energys Eastern region revenues decreased by approximately 20.9%. The Eastern region revenues were significantly affected by a combination of lower capacity revenues and a decline in megawatt hour generation compared with 2001. This decline in generation is attributable to an unseasonably warm winter and cooler spring and a slowing economy which reduced demand for electricity, together with new regulation which reduced price volatility, particularly in New York City. The Central region generated increased revenues of 39.9% primarily due to a full year of operations compared to plants acquired and completed in 2001. NRG Energys International revenues from majority owned operations increased by $22.4 million or 7.1% from 2001 to 2002. The Asia Pacific region reported a reduction in revenues of $42.4 million while increases were reported from Europe of $34.9 million and Other Americas of $29.9 million. The reduction in Asia Pacific revenue is primarily due to a decline in energy prices and the loss of a significant contract at Flinders. The increase in Europe and other Americas revenue is primarily due to a full year of operations for acquisitions made in 2001. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates For the year ended December 31, 2002, NRG Energy had equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $69.0 million, compared to $210.0 million for 2001, a decrease of $141.0 million or approximately 67.1%. The $141.1 million decrease in Equity earnings from unconsolidated affiliates is due primarily to unfavorable results at West Coast Power in 2002 as compared to the same period in 2001. During 2002, West Coast Power had long term contracts that were less favorable than those held in 2001. In addition during 2002, West Coast Power established reserves for certain receivables not considered recoverable. NRG Energys share of this reserve was approximately $58.5 million on a pre tax basis. Operating Costs and Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2002, cost of majority owned operations related to continuing operations was $1,510.6 million compared to $1,430.0 million for 2001, an increase of $80.6 million or approximately 5.6%. For the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, cost of majority owned operations represented approximately 68.3% and 65.0% of revenues from majority owned operations, respectively. Cost of majority owned operations consists primarily of cost of energy (primarily fuel costs), labor, operating and maintenance costs and non income based taxes related to NRG Energys majority owned operations. Cost of energy increased from $974.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 to $1,015.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. This represents an increase of $40.5 million or 4.2%. As a percent of revenue from majority owned operations cost of energy was 45.9% and 44.2% for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Operating and maintenance costs increased from $356.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 to $415.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. This represents an increase of $58.9 million or 16.5%. As a percent of revenue from majority owned operations, operating and maintenance costs represented 18.8% and 16.2%, for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The dollar increase in operating and maintenance expense is primarily due to a full year of expense in 2002 related to assets acquired during 2001. Depreciation and Amortization For the year ended December 31, 2002, depreciation and amortization related to continuing operations was $256.2 million, compared to $169.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, an increase of $86.6 million or approximately 51.1%. This increase is primarily due to the addition of property, plant and equipment related to NRG Energys recently completed acquisitions of electric generating facilities. General, Administrative and Development For the year ended December 31, 2002, general, administrative and development costs were $250.1 million, compared to $193.9 million, an increase of $56.2 million or approximately 29.0%. For the year ended 33 Table of Contents December 31, 2002 and 2001, general, administrative and development costs represent 11.3% and 8.8% of revenues from majority owned operations, respectively. This increase is primarily due to an increase in bad debt expense of approximately $39.2 million over 2001. Additionally there was an increase in other general administrative expenses due to 2001 acquisitions, newly constructed facilities coming on line. These increases were partially offset by decreases in business development expenses and other reductions to costs previously incurred to support international and expanded operations. Write Downs and Losses on Sales of Equity Method Investments For the year ended December 31, 2002, write downs and losses on equity method investments were $196.2 million. The $196.2 million charge consists primarily of write downs taken related to NRG Energys investment in Loy Yang in the total amount of $111.4 million. In addition, NRG Energy recorded a loss of $48.4 million upon the transfer of its investment in SRW Cogeneration and recorded write downs of $14.2 million and $3.6 million of its investments in EDL and Collinsville, respectively. Special Charges During the third quarter of 2002, NRG Energy experienced credit rating downgrades, defaults under certain credit agreements, increased collateral requirements and reduced liquidity. NRG Energy applied the provisions of SFAS No. 144 to its construction and operational projects. NRG Energy completed an analysis of the recoverability of the asset carrying values of its projects factoring in the probability of different courses of action available to NRG Energy given its financial position and liquidity constraints. As a result, NRG Energy determined during the third quarter that many of its construction projects and certain operational projects were impaired and should be written down to fair market value. To estimate fair value, NRG Energy management considered discounted cash flow analyses, bids and offers related to those projects and prices of similar assets. During 2002, NRG Energy recorded asset impairment and other special charges related to continuing operations of $2,656.1 million. See Item 15 Note 3 to the Consolidated financial statements and notes of this Form 10 K for additional information. Additional asset impairments and other charges may be recorded by NRG Energy in periods subsequent to December 31, 2002, given the changing business conditions and the resolution of the pending restructuring plan. Management is unable to determine the possible magnitude of any additional asset impairments. During 2002, NRG Energy expensed charges of $25.6 million for expected severance costs, primarily related to terminated executives, associated with the restructuring of NRG Energy, and of this amount, $4.7 million of cash was paid as of December 31, 2002. In addition to asset impairment charges and severance costs, NRG Energy has incurred $85.8 million of restructuring costs consisting of financial and legal advisor fees, contract termination fees and other such costs. NRG Energy expects that costs such as these will continue for the near term as NRG Energy continues to restructure its operations. NRG Energy is also impacted by rule/tariff changes that occur in the existing ISOs. On March 1, 2003, ISO NE implemented its version of Standard Market Design. This change dramatically modifies the New England market structure by incorporating Locational Marginal Pricing (LMP pricing by location rather than on a New England wide basis.) Even though NRG Energy views this change as a significant improvement to the existing market design, NRG Energy still views the market within New England as insufficient to allow for NRG Energy to recover its costs and earn a reasonable return on investment. Consequently, on February 26, 2003, NRG Energy filed and requested a cost of service rate with FERC for most of its Connecticut fleet, requesting a February 27th effective date. NRG Energy remains committed to working with ISO NE, FERC and other stakeholders to continue to improve the New England market that will hopefully make further reliance on a cost of service rate unnecessary. While NRG Energy has the right to file for such rate treatment, there are no assurances that FERC will grant such rates in the form or amount that NRG Energy petitioned for in its filing. If FERC declines to grant cost of service based rates in Connecticut, there may be additional impairments related to the Connecticut assets. 34 Table of Contents On March 25, 2003, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued an order (the Order) in response to Devon Power LLCs, Middletown Power LLCs, Montville Power LLCs, and Norwalk Power LLCs (collectively, NRG Subsidiaries) Joint Motion for Emergency Expedited Issuance of Order by March 17, 2003 in Docket No. ER03 563 000 (the Emergency Motion). In the Emergency Motion, the NRG Subsidiaries requested that FERC accept the NRG Subsidiaries reliability must run agreements and assure the NRG Subsidiaries recovery of maintenance costs for their New England generating facilities prior to the peak summer season. FERC accepted the NRG Subsidiaries filing as to the recovery of spring 2003 maintenance costs, subject to refund. FERCs Order authorizes the ISO New England Inc. to begin collecting these maintenance costs in escrow for the benefit of the NRG Subsidiaries as of February 27, 2003. Several intervenors protested the Emergency Motion. FERC will rule on such protests and the other issues raised in the Emergency Motion in a subsequent order. Other Income (Expense) For the year ended December 31, 2002, total other expense was $485.0 million, compared to $371.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, an increase of $113.3 million or approximately 30.5%. The increase in total other expense from 2001 consisted primarily of an increase in interest expense. For the year ended December 31, 2002, interest expense (which includes both corporate and project level interest expense) was $494.0 million, compared to $389.3 million in 2001, an increase of $104.7 million or approximately 26.9%. This increase is due primarily to increased corporate and project level debt. NRG Energy issued substantial amounts of long term debt at both the corporate level (recourse debt) and project level (non recourse debt) to either directly finance the acquisition of electric generating facilities or refinance short term bridge loans incurred to finance such acquisitions. For the year ended December 31, 2002, minority interest in earnings of consolidated subsidiaries was a gain of $4.8 million, compared to a loss of $2.3 million, an increase of $7.1 million, as compared to 2001. The decrease is primarily due to lower earnings from Timber Energy Resources, as compared to 2001. For the year ended December 31, 2002, other income, net, was a gain of $4.2 million, as compared to $19.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, a decrease of $15.7 million, or approximately 78.9%. Other income, net consists primarily of interest income on cash balances and realized and unrealized foreign currency exchange gains and losses. Income tax It is likely that Xcel Energy will not request Internal Revenue Service consent to consolidate NRG Energy for income tax purposes for 2002. Therefore, the income tax provision for NRG Energy is based on a consolidated NRG Energy group through June 3, 2002, and separate income tax returns starting June 4, 2002. On a stand alone basis, it is uncertain if NRG Energy would be able to fully realize tax benefits on its losses and therefore a valuation allowance has been provided. For the year ended December 31, 2002, income tax benefit from continuing operations was $165.4 million, compared to an income tax expense of $28.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, a decrease of $193.5 million. NRG Energy recorded an income tax benefit in 2002 for operating losses to the extent realization was considered more likely than not. Tax benefits were not recorded for items NRG was uncertain that there would be sufficient operating losses to offset operating income in future periods. Discontinued Operations As of December 31, 2002, NRG Energy has classified the operations and gains/losses recognized on the sales of certain entities as discontinued operations. Discontinued operations consist of the historical operations and net gains/losses related to its Crockett Cogeneration, Entrade, Killingholme, Csepel, Hsin Yu and Bulo Bulo projects that were sold in 2002 or were deemed to have met the required criteria for such classification 35 Table of Contents pending final disposition (the Killingholme and Hsin Yu projects). For 2002, the results of operations related to such discontinued operations was a net loss of $556.6 million as compared to a gain of $47.0 million for the same period in 2001. The primary reason for the loss recognized in 2002 is due to asset impairments recorded at Killingholme and Hsin Yu. For the Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2000 Net Income Net income for 2001 was $265.2 million, compared to $182.9 million for 2000, an increase of $82.3 million or approximately 45.0%. Net income for 2001 increased by $82.3 million due to the factors described below. Revenues and Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates For the year ended December 31, 2001, NRG Energy had total revenues and equity earnings from continuing operations of $2,411.5 million, compared to $1,810.1 million for 2000, an increase of $601.4 million or approximately 33.2%. Revenues from majority owned operations NRG Energys operating revenues from majority owned operations were $2,201.4 million compared to $1,670.8 million, an increase of $530.6 million or approximately 31.8%. Revenues from majority owned operations for the year ended December 31, 2001 consisted primarily of power generation revenues from domestic operations of approximately $1,679.6 million, operations in Europe of $72.6 million, Asia Pacific $214.8 million and Other Americas $28.2 million, resulting in increases of $231.3 million, $71.2 million, $120.0 million and $27.9 million compared to 2000, respectively. In addition, NRG Energy recognized revenues from majority owned operations from its alternative energy, thermal and other operations of approximately $79.5 million, $108.3 million and $18.5 million respectively, resulting in increases of $45.1 million, $23.4 million and $11.7 million compared to 2000, respectively. The increase of $231.3 million related to NRG Energys domestic power generation operations is due primarily to additional sales at NRG Energys Eastern region facilities which were acquired in June 2001 from Conectiv and increased sales at NRG Energys South Central region facilities which were primarily acquired in March 2000 from Cajun Electric and expanded with the acquisition of the Batesville facility from LS Power in January 2001 and completion of the Sterlington and Big Cajun 1 peaking facilities in 2001. The increase of $71.2 million related to NRG Energys Europe power generation operations is due primarily to operations at Saale Energie in Germany (SEG). The increase of $120.0 million related to NRG Energys Asia Pacifics power generation operations is due primarily to a full year of operations at the Flinders Power facilities which was acquired in August 2000. The increase of $27.9 million related to NRG Energys Other Americas power generation operations is due primarily to the consolidation in 2001 of the COBEE facility which was previously accounted for under the equity method. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates For the year ended December 31, 2001, NRG Energy had equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $210.0 million, compared to $139.4 million for 2000, an increase of $70.6 million or approximately 50.6%. The increase of $70.6 million is primarily comprised of favorable results from NRG Energys domestic and international power generation equity investments. During 2001, NRG Energys domestic power generation investment in West Coast Power contributed $41.0 million of this increase. Additionally, approximately $40.2 million of the increase is from NRG Energys international power generation investments. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable results at NRG Energys other investments accounted for under 36 Table of Contents the equity method and continued reductions in the equity earnings attributable to NEO Corporation. NEO Corporation derives a significant portion of its net income from Section 29 tax credits. Operating Costs and Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2001, cost of majority owned operations was $1,430.0 million compared to $1,060.1 million for 2000, an increase of $369.9 million or approximately 34.9%. For the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, cost of majority owned operations represented approximately 65.0% and 63.4% of revenues from majority owned operations, respectively. Cost of majority owned operations consists primarily of cost of energy (primarily fuel costs), labor, operating and maintenance costs and non income based taxes related to NRG Energys majority owned operations. Cost of energy increased from $718.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000 to $974.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 primarily due to 2001 domestic and international acquisitions. This represents an increase of $256.3 million or 35.7%. As a percent of revenue from majority owned operations, cost of energy was 44.3% and 43.0% for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Approximately 69.3% of the increase in operating costs and expenses for 2001 compared to 2000 of $369.9 million is primarily due to increased cost of energy. Operating and maintenance costs increased from $259.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000 to $356.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. This represents an increase of $97.5 million or 37.6%. As a percent of revenue from majority owned operations operating and maintenance costs represented 16.2% and 15.5%, for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The dollar increase in operating and maintenance expense is primarily due to 2001 domestic and international acquisitions. Depreciation and Amortization For the year ended December 31, 2001, depreciation and amortization from continuing operations was $169.6 million, compared to $97.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, an increase of $72.3 million or approximately 74.3%. This increase is primarily due to the addition of property, plant and equipment related to NRG Energys recently completed acquisitions of electric generating facilities. General, Administrative and Development For the year ended December 31, 2001, general, administrative and development costs were $193.9 million, compared to $169.0 million, an increase of $24.9 million or approximately 14.7%. This increase is primarily due to increased business development activities, associated legal, technical and accounting expenses, employees and equipment resulting from expanded operations and pending acquisitions. This also includes a $10.3 million expense related to Enrons bankruptcy. This amount includes a pre tax charge of $22.4 million to establish bad debt reserves, which was partially offset by a pre tax gain of $12.1 million on a credit swap agreement entered into as part of the NRG Energys credit risk management program. Other Income (Expense) For the year ended December 31, 2001, total other expense was $371.7 million, compared to $245.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, an increase of $125.9 million or approximately 51.2%. The increase in total other expense of $125.9 million, from 2000, consisted primarily of an increase in interest expense that was partially offset by an increase in other income and a reduction in minority interest in earnings of consolidated subsidiaries. For the year ended December 31, 2001, interest expense (which includes both corporate and project level interest expense) was $389.3 million, compared to $250.8 million in 2000, an increase of $138.5 million or approximately 55.2%. This increase is due to increased corporate and project level debt issued during 2001. During 2001, NRG Energy issued substantial amounts of long term debt at both the corporate level (recourse debt) and project level (non recourse debt) to either directly finance the acquisition of electric generating facilities or refinance short term bridge loans incurred to finance such acquisitions. 37 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2001, minority interest in earnings of consolidated subsidiaries was $2.2 million, compared to $0.8 million, an increase of $1.4 million or approximately 175.0%, as compared to 2000. For the year ended December 31, 2001, other income, net, was $19.9 million, as compared to $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, an increase of $14.1 million, or approximately 243.1%. Other income, net, consists primarily of interest income on cash balances and loans to affiliates, and miscellaneous other items, including the income statement impact of certain foreign currency translation adjustments and the impact of gains and losses on the dispositions of investments. Approximately $18.0 million of the increase relates to interest on cash balances and loans to affiliates, primarily West Coast Power. The increase also includes gains on foreign currency translation adjustments and miscellaneous asset sales that were partially offset by a $3.8 million charge to write off capitalized costs associated with the Estonia project. Income Tax For the year ended December 31, 2001, income tax expense was $28.1 million, compared to an income tax expense of $86.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, a decrease of $58.8 million. Approximately $14.7 million of the decrease is attributed to additional IRC Section 29 energy credits that were recorded in 2001, as compared to the same period in 2000. NRG Energy reported a worldwide effective tax rate of approximately 11.4% for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to approximately 36.5% for the year ended December 31, 2000. The overall reduction in tax rates was primarily due to the increase in energy credits, the implementation of state tax planning strategies and a higher percentage of NRG Energys overall earnings derived from foreign projects in lower tax jurisdictions. Discontinued Operations Income from discontinued operations was $47.0 million in 2001 compared to $32.0 million in 2000. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates NRG Energys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon NRG Energys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements and related disclosures in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires the application of appropriate technical accounting rules and guidance as well as the use of estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. The application of these policies necessarily involves judgments regarding future events, including the likelihood of success of particular projects, legal and regulatory challenges. These judgments, in and of themselves, could materially impact the financial statements and disclosures based on varying assumptions, which may be appropriate to use. In addition, the financial and operating environment also may have a significant effect, not only on the operation of the business, but on the results reported through the application of accounting measures used in preparing the financial statements and related disclosures, even if the nature of the accounting policies have not changed. On an ongoing basis, NRG Energy, evaluates its estimates, utilizing historic experience, consultation with experts and other methods NRG Energy considers reasonable. In any case, actual results may differ significantly from NRG Energys estimates. Any effects on NRG Energys business, financial position or results of operations resulting from revisions to these estimates are recorded in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. NRG Energys significant accounting policies are summarized in Item 15 Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table identifies certain of the significant accounting policies listed in Item 15 Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The table also identifies the judgments required and uncertainties involved in the application of each. These policies, along with the underlying assumptions and judgments made by NRG Energys management in their application, have a significant impact on NRG Energys consolidated financial statements. NRG Energy identifies its most critical accounting policies as those that are the most pervasive and important to the portrayal of NRG Energys financial position and 38 Table of Contents results of operations, and that require the most difficult, subjective and or complex judgments by management regarding estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Accounting Policy Judgments/Uncertainties Affecting Application Capitalization Practices/ Purchase Accounting Determination of beginning and ending of capitalization periods Allocation of purchase prices to identified assets Asset Valuation and Impairment Recoverability of investment through future operations Regulatory and political environments and requirements Estimated useful lives of assets Environmental obligations and operational limitations Estimates of future cash flows Estimates of fair value Judgment about triggering events Revenue Recognition Customer/counter party dispute resolution practices Market maturity and economic conditions Contract interpretation Uncollectible Receivables Economic conditions affecting customers, counter parties, suppliers and market prices Regulatory environment and impact on customer financial condition Outcome of litigation and bankruptcy proceedings Derivative Financial Instruments Market conditions in the energy industry, especially the effects of price volatility on contractual commitments Assumptions used in valuation models Counter party credit risk Market conditions in foreign countries Regulatory and political environments and requirements Litigation Claims and Assessments Impacts of court decisions Estimates of ultimate liabilities arising from legal claims Income Taxes and Valuation Allowance for Deferred Tax Assets Ability of tax authority decisions to withstand legal challenges or appeals Anticipated future decisions of tax authorities Application of tax statutes and regulations to transactions. Ability to utilize tax benefits through carrybacks to prior periods and carryforwards to future periods. Filing elections that may be made by Xcel Energy to include NRG Energy in its consolidated tax return Of all of the accounting policies identified in the above table, NRG Energy believes that the following policies and the application thereof to be those having the most direct impact on NRG Energys financial position and results of operations. Capitalization Practices and Purchase Accounting As of December 31, 2002, NRG Energy has a carrying value of approximately $6.8 billion of net property, plant and equipment, $623.8 million of which is under construction or turbines being marketed, representing approximately 62.4% and 5.7% of total assets, respectively. The majority of the carrying value of 39 Table of Contents property, plant and equipment is the result of NRG Energys recent asset acquisitions and constructions. These amounts represent the estimated fair values at the date of acquisition and construction. For those assets that were or are being constructed by NRG Energy the carrying value reflects the application of NRG Energys property, plant and equipment policies which incorporate estimates, assumptions and judgments by management relative to the capitalized costs and useful lives of NRG Energys generating facilities. Interest incurred on funds borrowed to finance projects expected to require more than three months to complete is capitalized. Capitalization of interest is discontinued when the asset under construction is ready for its intended use or when construction is terminated. Capitalized interest was approximately $64.8 million in 2002. Development costs and capitalized project costs include third party professional services, permits, and other costs which are incurred incidental to a particular project. Such costs are expensed as incurred until an acquisition agreement or letter of intent is signed, and the project has been approved by NRG Energys Board of Directors. Additional costs incurred after this point are capitalized. When a project begins operation, previously capitalized project costs are reclassified to equity investments in affiliates or property plant and equipment and amortized on a straight line basis over the lesser of the life of the projects related assets or revenue contract period. Impairment of Long Lived Assets NRG Energy evaluates property, plant and equipment and intangible assets for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the assets to the future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, through considering project specific assumptions for long term power pool prices, escalated future project operating costs and expected plant operations. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets by factoring in the probability weighting of different courses of action available to NRG Energy. Generally, fair value will be determined using valuation techniques such as the present value of expected future cash flows. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less the cost to sell. As of December 31, 2002, net income from continuing operations was reduced by $2.5 billion due to impairments recorded in 2002. Asset impairment evaluations are, by nature highly subjective. Revenue Recognition and Uncollectible Receivables NRG Energy is primarily an electric generation company, operating a portfolio of majority owned electric generating plants and certain plants in which its ownership is 50% or less which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. NRG Energy also produces thermal energy for sale to customers and collects methane gas from landfill sites, which is then used for the generation of electricity. Both physical and financial transactions are entered into to optimize the financial performance of NRG Energys generating facilities. Electric energy is recognized upon transmission to the customer. Capacity and ancillary revenue is recognized when contractually earned. Revenues from operations and maintenance services is recognized when the services are performed. NRG Energy uses the equity method of accounting to recognize its pro rata share of the net income or loss of its unconsolidated investments. NRG Energy continually assesses the collectibility of its receivables, and in the event it believes a receivable to be uncollectible, an allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded or, in the event of a contractual dispute, the receivable and corresponding revenue may be considered unlikely of recovery and not recorded in the financial statements until management is satisfied that it will be collected. Derivative Financial Instruments In January 2001, NRG Energy adopted SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended by SFAS No. 137 and SFAS No. 138. SFAS No. 133 requires NRG Energy to record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of non hedge derivatives are immediately recognized in earnings. Changes in the fair value of derivatives accounted for as hedges are either recognized in earnings as an offset to the changes in the fair value of the related hedged assets, liabilities and firm commitments or for forecasted transactions, deferred and recorded as a component of accumulated 40 Table of Contents other comprehensive income (OCI) until the hedged transactions occur and are recognized in earnings. NRG Energy primarily applies SFAS No. 133 to long term power sales contracts, long term gas purchase contracts and other energy related commodities and financial instruments used to mitigate variability in earnings due to fluctuations in spot market prices, hedge fuel requirements at generation facilities and protect investments in fuel inventories. SFAS No. 133 also applies to interest rate swaps and foreign currency exchange rate contracts. The application of SFAS No. 133 results in increased volatility in earnings due to the impact market prices have on the market positions and financial instruments that NRG Energy has entered into. In determining the fair value of these derivative/financial instruments NRG Energy uses estimates, various assumptions, judgment of management and when considered appropriate third party experts in determining the fair value of these derivatives. Liquidity and Capital Resources In December 2001, Moodys Investor Service (Moodys) placed NRG Energys long term senior unsecured debt rating on review for possible downgrade. In response, Xcel Energy and NRG Energy put into effect a plan to preserve NRG Energys investment grade rating and improve its financial condition. This plan included financial support to NRG Energy from Xcel Energy; marketing certain NRG Energy assets for sale; canceling and deferring capital spending; and reducing corporate expenses. In response to a possible downgrade, during 2002, Xcel Energy contributed $500 million to NRG Energy, and NRG Energy and its subsidiaries sold assets and businesses that provided NRG Energy in excess of $286 million in cash and eliminated approximately $432.0 million in debt. NRG Energy also cancelled or deferred construction of approximately 3,900 MW of new generation projects. On July 26, 2002, Standard & Poors (S&P) downgraded NRG Energys senior unsecured bonds to below investment grade, and three days later Moodys also downgraded NRG Energys senior unsecured debt rating to below investment grade. Since July 2002, NRG Energy senior unsecured debt, as well as the secured NRG Northeast Generating LLC bonds and the secured NRG South Central Generating LLC bonds and Secured LSP Energy (Batesville) bonds were downgraded multiple times. After NRG Energy failed to make payments due under certain unsecured bond obligations on September 16, 2002, both Moodys and S&P lowered their ratings on NRG Energys and its subsidiaries unsecured bonds once again. Currently, NRG Energys unsecured bonds carry a rating of between CCC and D at S&P and between Ca and C at Moodys, depending on the specific debt issue. As a result of the downgrade of NRG Energys credit rating, declining power prices, increasing fuel prices, the overall down turn in the energy industry, and the overall down turn in the economy, NRG Energy has experienced severe financial difficulties. These difficulties have caused NRG Energy to, among other things, miss scheduled principal and interest payments due to its corporate lenders and bondholders, prepay for fuel and other related delivery and transportation services and provide performance collateral in certain instances NRG Energy has also recorded asset impairment charges of approximately $3.1 billion, related to various operating projects as well as for projects that were under construction which NRG Energy has stopped funding. 41 Table of Contents NRG Energy and its subsidiaries have failed to timely make the following interest and or principal payments on its indebtedness: Amount Interest Principal Debt ($ in millions) Issued Rate Maturity Due Due Date Due Recourse Debt (unsecured) NRG Energy ROARS $ 250.0 8.700 % 3/15/2005 $ 10.9 9/16/2002 $ 250.0 8.700 % 3/15/2005 $ 10.9 3/17/2003 NRG Energy senior notes $ 350.0 8.250 % 9/15/2010 $ 14.4 9/16/2002 $ 350.0 8.250 % 9/15/2010 $ 14.4 3/17/2003 NRG Energy senior notes $ 350.0 7.750 % 4/1/2011 $ 13.6 10/1/2002 NRG Energy senior notes $ 500.0 8.625 % 4/1/2031 $ 21.6 10/1/2002 NRG Energy senior notes $ 240.0 8.000 % 11/1/2003 $ 9.6 11/1/2002 NRG Energy senior notes $ 300.0 7.500 % 6/1/2009 $ 11.3 12/1/2002 NRG Energy senior notes $ 250.0 7.500 % 6/15/2007 $ 9.4 12/15/2002 NRG Energy senior notes $ 340.0 6.750 % 7/15/2006 $ 11.5 1/15/2003 NRG Energy senior debentures (NRZ Equity Units) $ 287.5 6.500 % 5/16/2006 $ 4.7 11/16/2002 $ 287.5 6.500 % 5/16/2006 $ 4.7 2/17/2003 NRG Energy senior notes $ 125.0 7.625 % 2/1/2006 $ 4.8 2/1/2003 NRG Energy 364 day corporate revolving facility $ 1,000.0 various 3/7/2003 $ 7.6 9/30/2002 $ 1,000.0 various 3/7/2003 $ 18.6 12/31/2002 Non Recourse Debt (secured) NRG Northeast Generating LLC $ 320.0 8.065 % 12/15/2004 $ 5.1 $ 53.5 12/15/2002 NRG Northeast Generating LLC $ 130.0 8.842 % 6/15/2015 $ 5.7 12/15/2002 NRG Northeast Generating LLC $ 300.0 9.292 % 12/15/2024 $ 13.9 12/15/2002 NRG South Central Generating LLC $ 500.0 8.962 % 3/15/2016 $ 20.2 $ 12.8 9/16/2002 $ 500.0 8.962 % 3/15/2016 $ 12.8 3/17/2003 NRG South Central Generating LLC $ 300.0 9.479 % 9/15/2024 $ 14.2 9/16/2002 These missed payments may have also resulted in cross defaults of numerous other non recourse and limited recourse debt instruments of NRG Energy. In addition, the following issues have been accelerated, rendering the debt immediately due and payable: on November 6, 2002, lenders to NRG Energy accelerated the approximately $1.1 billion of debt under the construction revolver facility; on November 21, 2002, the bond trustee, on behalf of bondholders, accelerated the approximately $750 million of debt under the NRG South Central Generating, LLC facility; and on February 27, 2003, ABN Amro as administrative agent, accelerated the approximately $1.0 billion corporate revolver financing facility. Since September, the following payments were made: on December 10, 2002, $16.0 million in interest, principal, and swap payments were made from restricted cash accounts in relation to the $325,000,000 Series A Floating Rate Senior Secured Bonds due 2019, issued by NRG Peaker Finance Company LLC (the Peaker financing facility); on December 27, 2002, NRG Northeast made the $24.7 million interest payment due on the NRG Northeast bonds but failed to make the $53.5 million principal payment; in January 2003, the South Central Generating bondholders unilaterally withdrew $35.6 million from a restricted revenue account relating to the September 15, 2002 interest payment and fees; and on March 17, 2003 South Central bondholders were paid $34.4 million due in relation to the March semi annual interest payment, but the $12.8 million principal payment was deferred. In addition to the payment defaults described above, prior to the downgrades many corporate guarantees and commitments of NRG Energy and its subsidiaries required that they be supported or replaced with letters 42 Table of Contents of credit or cash collateral within 5 to 30 days of a ratings downgrade below Baa3 or BBB by Moodys or Standard & Poors, respectively. As a result of the downgrades on July 26 and July 29, NRG Energy received demands to post collateral aggregating approximately $1.1 billion. On August 19, 2002, NRG Energy executed a Collateral Call Extension Letter (CCEL) with various secured project lender groups in which the banks agreed to extend until September 13, 2002, the deadline by which NRG Energy was to post its approximately $1.0 billion of cash collateral in connection with certain bank loan agreements. Effective as of September 13, 2002, NRG Energy and these various secured project lenders entered into a Second Collateral Call Extension Letter (Second CCEL) that extended the deadline until November 15, 2002. Under the Second CCEL, NRG Energy agreed to submit to the lenders a comprehensive restructuring plan. NRG Energy submitted this plan on November 4, 2002 and continues to work with its lenders and advisors on an overall restructuring of its debt (see further discussion below). The November 15, 2002 deadline of the second CCEL passed without NRG Energy posting the required collateral. NRG Energy and the secured project lenders continue to work toward a plan of restructuring. In August 2002, NRG Energy retained financial and legal restructuring advisors to assist its management in the preparation of a comprehensive financial and operational restructuring. NRG Energy and its advisors have been meeting regularly to discuss restructuring issues with an ad hoc committee of its bondholders and a steering committee of its bank lenders (the Ad Hoc Creditors Committees). To aid in the design and implementation of a restructuring plan, in the fall of 2002, NRG Energy prepared a comprehensive business plan and forecast. Anticipating that NRG Energys creditors will own all or substantially all of NRG Energys equity interests after implementing the restructuring plan, any plans and efforts to integrate NRG Energys business operations with those of Xcel Energy were terminated. Using commodity, emission and capacity prices provided by an independent energy consulting firm to develop forecasted cash flow information, management concluded that the forecasted free cash flow available to NRG Energy after servicing project level obligations will be insufficient to service recourse debt obligations at the NRG Energy corporate level. Based on that forecast, it is anticipated that NRG Energy will remain in default of the various corporate level debt obligations discussed more fully herein. Based on this information and in consultation with Xcel Energy and its financial and legal restructuring advisors, NRG Energy prepared a comprehensive financial restructuring plan. In November 2002, NRG Energy and Xcel Energy presented the plan to the Ad Hoc Creditors Committees. The restructuring plan has served as a basis for continuing negotiations between the Ad Hoc Creditors Committees, NRG Energy and Xcel Energy related to a consensual plan of reorganization for NRG Energy. Negotiations have progressed substantially since the initial plan was presented in November. If an agreement to a consensual plan of reorganization is negotiated and NRG Energy is unable to effectuate the restructuring through an exchange offer or other non bankruptcy mechanism, it is highly probable that such plan would be implemented through the commencement of a voluntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. There can be no assurance that NRG Energys creditors, including, but not limited to the Ad Hoc Committees, will agree to the terms of the consensual plan of reorganization currently being negotiated. In addition, there can be no guarantee that lenders will not seek to enforce their remedies under the various loan agreements, provided that any such attempted enforcement would be subject to the automatic stay and other relevant provisions of the bankruptcy code. The commencement of a voluntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding without a consensual plan of reorganization would increase the possibility of a prolonged bankruptcy proceeding. On November 22, 2002, five former NRG Energy executives filed an involuntary Chapter 11 petition against NRG Energy in U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Minnesota. Under provisions of federal law, NRG Energy has the full authority to continue to operate its business as if the involuntary petition had not been filed unless and until a court hearing on the validity of the involuntary petition is resolved adversely to NRG Energy. On December 16, 2002, NRG Energy responded to the involuntary petition, contesting the petitioners claims and filing a motion to dismiss the case. On February 19, 2003, NRG Energy announced that it had reached a settlement with the petitioners. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Minnesota will hear NRG Energys motion to approve the settlement and dismiss the involuntary petition. Two of NRG 43 Table of Contents Energys creditors have objected to the motion to dismiss. There can be no assurance that the court will dismiss the involuntary petition. The Bankruptcy Court has discretion in the review and approval of the settlement agreement. There is a risk that the Bankruptcy Court may, among other things, reject the settlement agreement or enter an order for relief under Chapter 11. On March 26, 2003, Xcel Energy announced that its board of directors had approved a tentative settlement agreement with holders of most of NRG Energys long term notes and the steering committee representing NRGs bank lenders. The settlement is subject to certain conditions, including the approval of at least a majority in dollar amount of the NRG Energy bank lenders and long term noteholders and definitive documentation. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be obtained. The terms of the settlement call for Xcel Energy to make payments to NRG Energy over the next 13 months totaling up to $752 million for the benefit of NRG Energys creditors in consideration for their waiver of any existing and potential claims against Xcel Energy. Under the settlement, Xcel Energy will make the following payments: (i) $350 million at or shortly following the consummation of a restructuring of NRG Energys debt. It is expected this payment would be made prior to year end 2003; (ii) $50 million on January 1, 2004. At Xcel Energys option, it may fill this requirement with either cash or Xcel Energy common stock or any combination thereof; and (iii) $352 million in April 2004. Cash Flows Historically, NRG Energy and its subsidiaries have obtained cash from operations, issuance of debt and equity securities, borrowings under credit facilities, capital contributions from Xcel Energy, reimbursement by Xcel Energy of tax benefits pursuant to a tax sharing agreement and proceeds from non recourse project financings. NRG Energy has used these funds to finance operations, service debt obligations, fund the acquisition, development and construction of generation facilities, finance capital expenditures and meet other cash and liquidity needs. 2002 2001 2000 Net cash provided by operating activities (in thousands) $ 430,043 $ 276,014 $ 361,678 Net cash provided by operating activities increased during 2002 compared with 2001, primarily due to NRG Energys efforts to conserve cash by deferring the payment of interest and managing its cash flows more closely. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased during 2001 compared with 2000, primarily due to adverse changes to working capital and increased undistributed equity earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. These decreases to net cash were partially offset by increases in net income after non cash adjustments for depreciation and amortization in 2001 as compared to 2000. The adverse changes to working capital are primarily due to increases in inventory balances, accrued income taxes receivables and changes in other long term assets and liabilities, partially offset by a favorable change in other current liabilities. 2002 2001 2000 Net cash used in investing activities (in thousands) $ (1,681,467 ) $ (4,335,641 ) $ (2,204,148 ) Net cash used in investing activities decreased in 2002, compared with 2001, primarily as a result of NRG Energy terminating its acquisition program due to its financial difficulties and the receipt of cash upon the sale of assets during 2002. Net cash used in investing activities increased in 2001, compared with 2000, primarily due to additional acquisitions of electric generating facilities and increased capital expenditures and project investments. 2002 2001 2000 Net cash provided by financing activities (in thousands) $ 1,449,330 $ 4,153,546 $ 1,905,870 Net cash provided by financing activities during 2002 decreased, compared to 2001 due to constraints on NRG Energys ability to access the capital markets and the cancellation and termination of construction projects reducing the need for capital. Net cash provided by financing activities during 2001 increased compared to 2000 due to the issuance of debt and equity securities to finance asset acquisitions. 44 Table of Contents Short term borrowing as a source of short term funding is affected by access to reasonably priced capital markets. This varies based on financial performance and existing debt levels. If current debt levels are perceived to be at or higher than standard industry levels or those levels that can be sustained by current operating levels, access to reasonable short term borrowings could be limited. These factors are evaluated by credit rating agencies that review NRG Energy and its subsidiary operations on an ongoing basis. As discussed above, NRG Energys credit situation has been adversely affected by its credit ratings and is significantly limited in its access to short term funding. NRG Energys operating cash flows have been adversely affected by lower operating margins as a result of low power prices since mid 2001. Seasonal variations in demand and market volatility in prices are not unusual in the independent power sector, and NRG Energy does normally experience higher margins in peak summer periods and lower margins in non peak periods. NRG Energy has also incurred significant amounts of debt to finance its acquisitions in the past several years and the servicing of interest and principal repayments from such financing is largely dependent on domestic project cash flows. NRG Energys management has concluded that the forecasted free cash flow available to NRG after servicing project level obligations will be insufficient to service recourse debt obligations at NRG Energy. For additional information on NRG Energys short term and long term borrowing arrangements, see Item 15 Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Prospective Capital Requirements Working Capital. As of February 28, 2003, NRG Energy had cash in the following amounts: Location and Availability Amount Unrestricted cash at NRG Energy $ 394.3 million Restricted cash at U.S. subsidiaries $ 249.5 million Restricted cash at Non U.S. subsidiaries $ 17.1 million Cash on deposit with vendors and suppliers $ 40.8 million Total $ 701.7 million NRG Energy anticipates that these cash resources, in addition to operating cash flows and net proceeds from asset sales, will be adequate to meet its corporate operating and capital expenditure needs going forward. However, NRG Energy does not anticipate having any cash available in 2003 to meet debt service on its corporate level notes and loans. NRG Energy is in negotiations with certain lenders who are considering making credit available to NRG Energy and or its subsidiaries through a debtor in possession facility in the event NRG Energy and or its subsidiaries becomes a debtor under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Other than a potential debtor in possession facility, or entering into a negotiated recapitalization of its debt obligations, NRG Energy does not contemplate access to any new financing in 2003. Capital Expenditures. NRG Energys management forecasts capital expenditures, which includes refurbishments and environmental compliance, to total approximately $475 million to $525 million in the years 2003 through 2007. NRG Energy anticipates funding its ongoing capital requirements through committed debt facilities, operating cash flows, and existing cash. NRG Energys capital expenditure program is subject to continuing review and modification. The timing and actual amount of expenditures may differ significantly based upon plant operating history, unexpected plant outages, changes in the regulatory environment, the availability of cash and restructuring efforts. Project Finance. Substantially all of NRG Energys operations are conducted by project subsidiaries and project affiliates. NRG Energys cash flow and ability to service corporate level indebtedness when due is dependent upon receipt of cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from NRG Energys projects and other subsidiaries. NRG Energy has generally financed the acquisition and development of its projects under financing arrangements to be repaid solely from each of its projects cash flows, which are typically secured by the plants physical assets and NRG Energys equity interests in the project company. In August 2002, NRG Energy suspended substantially all of its acquisition and development activities indefinitely, pending a 45 Table of Contents comprehensive restructuring of NRG Energy. The debt agreements of NRG Energys subsidiaries and project affiliates generally restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to NRG Energy. As of December 31, 2002, Loy Yang, Energy Center Kladno, LSP Energy (Batesville), NRG South Central, and NRG Northeast Generating do not currently meet the minimum debt service coverage ratios required for these projects to make payments to NRG Energy. In addition, NRG Energys subsidiaries, including LSP Kendall, NRG McClain, NRG Mid Atlantic, NRG South Central and NRG Northeast Generating are in default on their various debt instruments, resulting in dividend payment restrictions. Off Balance Sheet Items As of December 31, 2002, NRG Energy does not have any significant relationships with structured finance or special purpose entities that provide liquidity, financing or incremental market risk or credit risk. In March 2000, an NRG Energy sponsored non consolidated pass through trust issued $250 million of 8.70% certificates due March 15, 2005. Each certificate represents a fractional undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the trust. Interest is payable on the certificates semi annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year through 2005. The sole assets of the trust consist of 160 million principal amount 7.97% Reset Senior Notes due March 15, 2020 issued by NRG Energy. Interest is payable semi annually on the Reset Senior Notes on March 15 and September 15 through March 15, 2005, and then at intervals and interest rates established in a remarketing process. If the Reset Senior Notes are not remarketed on March 15, 2005, they must be mandatorily redeemed by NRG Energy on such date. NRG Energy has numerous investments of generally less then 50% interests in energy and energy related entities that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting as disclosed in Item 15 Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. NRG Energys pro rata share of non recourse debt held by unconsolidated affiliates was approximately $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2002. In the normal course of business NRG Energy may be asked to loan funds to these entities on both a long and short term basis. Such transactions are generally accounted for as accounts payables and receivables to/from affiliates and notes receivables from affiliates and if appropriate, bear market based interest rates. For additional information regarding amounts accounted for as notes receivables to affiliates see Item 15 Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments NRG Energy has a variety of contractual obligations and other commercial commitments that represent prospective cash requirements in addition to its capital expenditure programs. The following is a summarized table of contractual obligations. See additional discussion in Item 15 Notes 13, 14 and 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Payments Due by Period as of December 31, 2002 After Contractual Cash Obligations Total Short Term 1 3 Years 4 5 Years 5 Years (In thousands) Long term debt $ 8,385,867 $ 7,193,237 $ 147,162 $ 145,761 $ 899,707 Capital lease obligations 574,531 26,855 53,338 53,012 441,326 Operating leases 80,556 11,514 21,067 18,030 29,945 Total contractual cash obligations $ 9,040,954 $ 7,231,606 $ 221,567 $ 216,803 $ 1,370,978 46 Table of Contents Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period as of December 31, 2002 Total Amounts After Other Commercial Commitments Committed Short Term 1 3 Years 4 5 Years 5 Years (In thousands) Lines of credit $ 1,000,000 $ 1,000,000 Stand by letters of credit 110,677 110,677 Guarantees 1,587,022 992,280 94,467 210,941 289,334 Total commercial commitments $ 2,697,699 $ 2,102,957 $ 94,467 $ 210,941 $ 289,334 Interdependent Relationships NRG Energy does not have any significant interdependent relationships. Since it is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy there are certain related party transactions that take place in the normal course of business. For additional information regarding NRG Energys related party transactions see Item 15 Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions. Environmental Matters Domestic Environmental Regulatory Matters The construction and operation of power projects are subject to stringent environmental and safety protection and land use laws and regulation in the United States. These laws and regulations generally require lengthy and complex processes to obtain licenses, permits and approvals from federal, state and local agencies. If such laws and regulations become more stringent and NRG Energys facilities are not exempted from coverage, NRG Energy could be required to make extensive modifications to further reduce potential environmental impacts. Also, NRG Energy could be held responsible under environmental and safety laws for the cleanup of pollutant releases at its facilities or at off site locations where it has sent wastes. NRG Energy and its subsidiaries strive to exceed the standards of compliance with applicable environmental and safety regulations. Nonetheless, NRG Energy expects that future liability under or compliance with environmental and safety requirements could have a material effect on its operations or competitive position. It is not possible at this time to determine when or to what extent additional facilities or modifications of existing or planned facilities will be required as a result of possible changes to environmental and safety regulations, regulator interpretations or enforcement policies. In general, the effect of future laws or regulations is expected to require the addition of pollution control equipment or the imposition of restrictions on NRG Energys operations. NRG Energy establishes accruals where reasonable estimates of probable environmental and safety liabilities are possible. NRG Energy adjusts the accruals when new remediation responsibilities are discovered and probable costs become estimable, or when current remediation estimates are adjusted to reflect new information. For more information on Environmental Matters see Item 15 Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. U.S. Federal Regulatory Initiatives Several federal regulatory and legislative initiatives are being undertaken in the U.S. to further limit and control pollutant emissions from fossil fuel fired combustion units. Although the exact impact of these initiatives is not known at this time, all of NRG Energys power plants will be affected in some manner by the expected changes in federal environmental laws and regulations. In Congress, legislation has been proposed that would impose annual caps on U.S. power plant emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2), mercury, and, in some instances, carbon dioxide (CO2). NRG Energy is currently participating in the debates around such legislative proposals as a member of the Electric Power Supply Association. Federal legislation relating to NOx, SO2 and mercury is likely in the next two years. The prospects for passage of the legislation 47 Table of Contents relating to CO2 is more uncertain. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) is scheduled to propose in December 2003 and finalize in December 2004 rules governing mercury emissions from power plants. In support of this schedule, USEPA and critical stakeholders, some of which are aligned with NRG Energys interests, are presently conducting a thorough review of existing power plant mercury emissions data. Since these mercury rules have not yet been proposed and legislation has not yet supplanted them, it is not possible for NRG Energy to determine the extent to which the rules will affect its domestic operations. USEPA has finalized federal rules governing ozone season NOx emissions across the eastern United States. These ozone season rules will be implemented in two phases. The first phase of restrictions will occur in the Ozone Transport Commission region during the 2003 and subsequent ozone seasons; all of NRG Energys existing, wholly owned generating units in the Northeast and Mid Atlantic regions are included in this part of the program. The second phase of NOx reductions will extend to states within the Ozone Transport Assessment Group (OTAG) region and restrict 2004 and subsequent ozone season NOx emissions in most states east of the Mississippi River. These rules require one NOx allowance to be held for each ton of NOx emitted from any fossil fuel fired stationary boiler, combustion turbine, or combined cycle system that (i) at any time on or after January 1, 1995, served a generator with a nameplate capacity greater than 25 MWe and sold any amount of electricity or (ii) has a maximum design heat input greater than 250 mmBtu/hr. NRG Energys facilities that are subject to this rule in the Northeast and Mid Atlantic Regions have been allocated NOx emissions allowances, but NRG Energy expects that those allowances may not be sufficient for the anticipated operation of these facilities. Where insufficient allowances exist, NRG Energy must purchase NOx allowances from sources holding excess allowances. The need to purchase these additional NOx allowances could have a material affect on NRG Energys operations in these regions. During the first quarter of 2002, USEPA proposed new rules governing cooling water intake structures at existing power facilities. These rules are scheduled to be finalized by February 16, 2004. The proposed rules specify certain location, design, construction, and capacity standards for cooling water intake structures at existing power plants using the largest amounts of cooling water. These rules will require implementation of the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impacts unless a facility shows that such standards would result in very high costs or little environmental benefit. The proposed rules would require NRG Energy facilities that withdraw water in amounts greater than 50 million gallons per day to submit with wastewater permit applications certain surveys, plans, operational measures, and restoration measures that combined would act to minimize adverse environmental impacts. These anticipated cooling water intake structure rules could have a material effect on NRG Energys operations. Other Federal initiatives that could affect NRG Energy and that would govern regional haze, fine particulate matter, and ozone are underway, but under extended compliance implementation timeframes ranging from 2009 and beyond. Regional U.S. Regulatory Initiatives West Coast Region The El Segundo and Long Beach Generating Stations are both regulated by the South Coast Air Quality Management Districts (SCAQMD) Regional Clean Air Incentives Market (RECLAIM) program. This program, which regulates NOx emissions in the Los Angeles area, was amended on May 11, 2001, and mandated major changes with respect to air emissions control at power generation facilities in southern California. New RECLAIM Rule 2009 requires that all existing power generation facilities meet Best Available Retrofit Control Technology (BARCT) for NOx emissions from all utility boilers by January 1, 2003, and for all peaking units by January 1, 2004. Under the new rule, existing power generation facilities were required to submit compliance plans by September 1, 2001, listing how each unit at the stations would meet BARCT by the deadlines. El Segundos compliance plan did not propose additional NOx controls to meet BARCT since Units 3 & 4 are already equipped with acceptable SCR technology (first installed on Unit 4 in 1995 and on Unit 3 in 2001). Further, NRG Energy is planning to decommission Units 1 & 2 so that it can build a new 621 MW combined cycle plant. SCAQMD approved the El Segundo Rule 2009 Compliance Plan on October 17, 2002, indicating that the SCRs on Units 3 & 4 meet BARCT and requiring 48 Table of Contents that Units 1 & 2 be retired on or before December 31, 2002. SCAQMD approved the Long Beach Generating Station Rule 2009 Compliance Plan on April 25, 2002, which proposed modifications to the Long Beach NOx control system by December 31, 2002, and specified a new NOx emission concentration limit of 16.6 parts per million. The Long Beach plant completed all control system modifications and demonstrated compliance with 16.6 parts per million limit before the December 31, 2002 deadline. Therefore, all Long Beach and El Segundo units have met the Rule 2009 BARCT requirement, and NRG Energy does not at this time anticipate additional material capital expenditures associated with the amended RECLAIM rules. Eastern Region Final rules implementing changes in air regulations in the states of Massachusetts and Connecticut were promulgated in 2000. The Connecticut rules required that existing facilities reduce their emissions of SO2 in two steps, the first of which took place on January 1, 2002. The second SO2 milestone will occur on January 1, 2003. The NRG Energy plants in Connecticut have operated in compliance with the first phase rules and are now operating in compliance with the second phase rules. Connecticuts rules governing emissions of NOx were also modified in 2000 to restrict the average, non ozone season NOx emission rate to 0.15 pound per million Btu heat input. NRG Energy plans to comply with the new NOx rules, in part, through selective firing of natural gas, use of selective non catalytic reduction (SNCR) technology presently installed at its Norwalk Harbor and Middletown Power Stations, improved combustion controls, use of emission reduction credits, and purchase of allowances. In 2002, the Connecticut legislature passed a law further tightening air emission standards by eliminating in state emissions credit trading subsequent to January 1, 2005 as a means of meeting Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) regulatory standards for SO2 emissions from older power plants. The termination of SO2 emissions trading in Connecticut by 2005 could have a material effect on NRG Energys operations in that state. The new Massachusetts rules set forth schedules under which six existing coal fired power plants in state were required to meet stringent emission limits for NOx, SO2, mercury, and CO2. The state has reserved the issue of control of carbon monoxide and particulate matter emissions for future consideration. On February 25th, 2003, NRG Energy received from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (MADEP) a permit to install natural gas reburn technology to meet the NOx and SO2 limits specified in the new rule at its Somerset Generating Station. NRG Energy is projected to incur total capital expenditures of approximately $5.4 million to implement the reburn technology at the Somerset Station, of which about $3.0 million remains to be spent during 2003. MADEP is evaluating the technological and economic feasibility of controlling and eliminating emissions of mercury from the combustion of solid fossil fuel in Massachusetts. Within six months of completing the feasibility evaluation, MADEP must propose emission standards for mercury, with a proposed compliance date of October 1, 2006. NRG Energy believes it can comply with any future mercury reductions required by the rules through achieving early reductions of mercury via early implementation of the natural gas reburn technology and with its January 1, 2010 commitment to shutdown Somerset Stations existing boiler. NRG Energy is still considering its options with respect to how it will address MADEPs CO2 emission standards. Such options include using early reductions of CO2 achieved through early implementation of the natural gas reburn technology or by filing a legal challenge with respect to MADEPs legal authority to regulate CO2 emissions. New York proposed rules reducing allowable SO2 and NOx emissions from large, fossil fuel fired combustion units in New York State on February 20, 2002 (6NYCRR Part 237: Acid Deposition Reduction NOx Budget Trading Program and Part 238: Acid Deposition Reduction SO2 Budget Trading Program). As proposed, these rules would affect every NRG Energy generator in state. NRG Energy provided testimony on the proposed rules in public hearings conducted in Buffalo and Albany on April 4, 2002, and May 20, 2002, respectively. In addition, NRG Energy filed written comments on the proposed rules on May 28, 2002. NRG Energys comments focused on (i) material changes in electric markets that had occurred since the conduct of studies upon which the Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) had based their proposal, (ii) the need to increase the quantity of upwind allowances for use in offsetting in state emissions, and (iii) the disproportionately minimal reduction in in state acid deposition that could be expected from the significant emissions reductions proposed. NRG Energy has received a pre publication version of the rules that will be 49 Table of Contents considered by the New York State DECs Environmental Board at the Boards March 26, 2003 meeting. Indications are that the rules will provide for increased use of upwind SO2 and NOx reductions and will continue to allow for the use of early emission reductions. NRG Energys strategy for complying with the new rules will be to generate early reductions of SO2 and NOx associated with fuel switching and use such reductions to extend the timeframe for implementing technological controls, which could include the addition of flue gas desulfurization (FGD) and selective catalytic reduction (SCR) equipment. NRG Energy anticipates that it could incur capital expenditures up to $300 million in the 2008 through 2012 timeframe to implement upgrades and modifications to its plants in New York to meet new state and federal regulatory requirements if NRG cannot address such requirements through use of compliant fuels and or plantwide applicability limits. While no material impending rule changes affecting NRG Energys existing facilities have been formally proposed. Delaware is considering in 2003 whether or not to develop Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards for mercury. In support of this effort, the State is beginning to test large combustion sources for mercury emissions. In addition, the State is establishing Total Maximum Daily Loading (TMDL) standards for mercury in its watersheds. NRG is participating as a stakeholder in such policy making efforts along with the Governors Energy Task Force, legislators and the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control (DNREC) to ensure that any rules promulgated adequately consider impacts on NRGs in state sources. Central Region The Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality has promulgated State Implementation Plan revisions to bring the Baton Rouge ozone non attainment area into compliance with National Ambient Air Quality Standards. NRG Energy participated in development of the revisions, which require the reduction of NOx emissions at the gas fired Big Cajun I Power Station and coal fired Big Cajun II Power Station to 0.1 pounds NOx per million Btu heat input and 0.21 pounds NOx per million Btu heat input, respectively. This revision of the Louisiana air rules would appear to constitute a change in law covered by agreement between Louisiana Generating LLC and the electric cooperatives allowing the costs of added combustion controls to be passed through to the cooperatives. The capital cost of combustion controls required at the Big Cajun II Generating Station to meet the States NOx regulations will total about $10.0 million each for Units 1 & 2. Unit 3 has already made such changes. Domestic Site Remediation Matters Under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of any facility, including an electric generating facility, may be required to investigate and remediate releases or threatened releases of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products located at the facility, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and remediation costs incurred by the party in connection with any releases or threatened releases. These laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of or caused the presence of the hazardous substances, and courts have interpreted liability under such laws to be strict (without fault) and joint and several. The cost of investigation, remediation or removal of any hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products could be substantial. Although NRG Energy has been involved in on site contamination matters, to date, NRG Energy has not been named as a potentially responsible party with respect to any off site waste disposal matter. West Coast Region The Asset Purchase Agreements for the Long Beach, El Segundo, Encina, and San Diego gas turbine generating facilities provide that Southern California Edison and San Diego Gas & Electric retain liability and indemnify NRG Energy for existing soil and groundwater contamination that exceeds remedial thresholds in place at the time of closing. NRG Energy and its business partner conducted Phase I and Phase II Environmental Site Assessments at each of these sites for purposes of identifying such existing contamination 50 Table of Contents and provided the results to the sellers. Southern California Edison and San Diego Gas & Electric have agreed to address contamination identified by these studies and are undertaking corrective action at the Encina and San Diego gas turbine generating sites. Spills and releases of various substances have occurred at these sites since establishing the historical baseline, all but one of which has been remediated in accordance with existing laws. A recent oil leak in underground piping at the El Segundo Generating Station contaminated soils adjacent to and underneath the Unit 1 powerhouse. NRG Energy excavated and disposed of contaminated soils that could be removed in accordance with existing laws. NRG Energy filed a request with the Regional Water Quality Control Board to allow contaminated soils to remain underneath the building foundation until the building is demolished. Eastern Region Coal ash is produced as a by product of coal combustion at the Dunkirk, Huntley, and Somerset Generating Stations. NRG Energy attempts to direct its coal ash to beneficial uses. Even so, significant amounts of ash are landfilled at on and off site locations. At Dunkirk and Huntley, ash is disposed at landfills owned and operated by NRG Energy. No material liabilities outside the costs associated with closure, post closure care and monitoring are expected at these facilities. NRG Energy maintains financial assurance to cover costs associated with closure, post closure care and monitoring activities. In the past, NRG Energy has provided financial assurance via financial test and corporate guarantee. NRG Energy must re establish financial assurance via an instrument requiring complete collateralization of closure and post closure related costs, currently estimated at approximately $5.8 million. NRG Energy is required to provide an alternative instrument to provide such financial assurance on or before April 30, 2003. NRG must also maintain financial assurance for closing interim status RCRA facilities at the Devon, Middletown, Montville and Norwalk Harbor Generating Stations. Previously, NRG Energy has provided financial assurance via financial test. NRG Energy must re establish financial assurance via an instrument requiring complete collateralization of closure and post closure related costs. NRG Energy is required to provide an alternative instrument to provide such financial assurance on or before April 30, 2003. Historical clean up liabilities were inherited as a part of acquiring the Somerset, Devon, Middletown, Montville, Norwalk Harbor, Arthur Kill and Astoria Generating Stations. NRG Energy has recently satisfied clean up obligations associated with the Ledge Road property (inherited as part of the Somerset acquisition). Site contamination liabilities arising under the Connecticut Transfer Act at the Devon, Middletown, Montville and Norwalk Harbor Stations have been identified and are currently being refined as part of on going site investigations. NRG Energy does not expect to incur material costs associated with completing the investigations at these Stations or future work to cover and monitor landfill areas pursuant to the Connecticut requirements. Remedial liabilities at the Arthur Kill Generating Station have been established in discussions between NRG Energy and the New York State DEC and are expected to cost on the order of $1.0 million; for contingency purposes, NRG Energy has budgeted $2 million to complete its Arthur Kill remedial obligations. Remedial investigations are on going at the Astoria Generating Station. At this time, NRG Energys long term cleanup liability at this site is not expected to exceed $2.5 million; for contingency purposes, NRG Energy has budgeted $4.3 million to complete its Astoria remedial obligations. NRG Energy is responsible for the costs associated with closure, post closure care and monitoring of the ash landfill owned and operated by NRG Energy on the site of the Indian River Generating Station. No material liabilities outside such costs are expected. Financial assurance to provide for closure and post closure related costs is currently maintained by a trust fund collateralized in the amount of approximately $6.6 million. Central Region Liabilities associated with closure, post closure care and monitoring of the ash ponds owned and operated on site at the Big Cajun II Generating Station are addressed through the use of a trust fund maintained by NRG Energy (one of the instruments allowed by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality for providing financial assurance for expenses associated with closure and post closure care of the ponds). The 51 Table of Contents current value of the trust fund is approximately $4.5 million and NRG Energy is making annual payments to the fund in the amount of about $116,000. International Environmental Matters Most of the foreign countries in which NRG Energy owns or may acquire or develop independent power projects have environmental and safety laws or regulations relating to the ownership or operation of electric power generation facilities. These laws and regulations are typically significant for independent power producers because they are still changing and evolving. In particular, NRG Energys international power generation facilities will likely be affected by evolving emissions limitations and operational requirements imposed by the Kyoto Protocol and country based restrictions pertaining to global climate change concerns. NRG Energy retains appropriate advisors in foreign countries and seeks to design its international development and acquisition strategy to comply with and take advantage of opportunities presented by each countrys environmental and safety laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that changes in such laws or regulations will not adversely effect NRG Energys international operations. Australia The most significant environmental issue for the Australian NRG businesses is the response to global climate change. Climate change issues are considered a long term issue (e.g., 2010 and beyond), and the Federal Governments response to date has included a number of initiatives, all of which have had no impact or minimal impact on NRG Energys current operations. The Australian Government has stated that Australia will achieve its Kyoto target of 108% of 1990 levels for the 2008 to 2012 reporting period but that it will not ratify the Kyoto Protocol. Each Australian State Government is considering implementing a number of climate change initiatives that will vary considerably state to state. NRG Energy currently expects that climate change initiatives will not have a material impact on NRG Energys businesses in Australia. MIBRAG/ Schkopau, Germany CO2 emissions trading is supposed to start in 2005, but NRG Energy cannot quantify the possible effect of this trading on its operations in Germany at this time because implementation details are still being negotiated among businesses, lobbyists, and the regulatory authorities. Fundamental issues such as grandfathering existing plants or availability of credits for plants previously closed or upgraded are still unsettled. Given the uncertainty regarding the emissions trading program, NRG Energy cannot estimate at this time the possible effect such requirements would have on its future operations. Proposed changes in sections 13 and 17 of the German Emission Control Directive are expected to tighten emission limits for plants firing conventional fuels, and for those co firing waste products. As with CO2 emissions trading, these changes are currently being vigorously debated with issues such as exemptions based on size or purpose of plants and grandfathering remaining undecided. The European Unions Groundwater Directive and Mine Wastewater Management Directive are in the rule making stage with the final outcome still under debate. Given the uncertainty regarding the possible outcome of the on going debate on these directives, NRG Energy cannot quantify at this time the possible effect such requirements would have on its future coal mining operations in Germany. UK NRG Energys Enfield Generating Station uses state of the art combined cycle technology and is set to fire natural gas as its primary fuel. Currently the facility complies with all conditions in its environmental permits and its operation is not under challenge by any governmental or non governmental parties. India NRG Energys Kondapalli Generating Station is in compliance with its environmental permits, is not being challenged by any parties on environmental grounds, has incurred no fines or penalties associated with 52 Table of Contents violations of operating conditions, and there are no capital costs anticipated for maintaining the Station in compliance with existing consents or rules. To NRG Energys knowledge, no regulatory proposals that would materially affect the Stations operation are pending or proposed. Recent Accounting Developments In June 2001, FASB issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. This statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. SFAS No. 143 requires an entity to recognize the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. Upon initial recognition of a liability for an asset retirement obligation, an entity shall capitalize an asset retirement cost by increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset by the same amount as the liability. SFAS No. 143 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. NRG Energy has not completed its analysis of SFAS No. 143. NRG Energy will complete its analysis in 2003 and in accordance with the accounting guidance, be required to restate prior quarterly statements to the extent the impact of the adoption is material. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections, that supersedes previous guidance for the reporting of gains and losses from extinguishment of debt and accounting for leases, among other things. SFAS No. 145 requires that only gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt that meet the requirements for classification as Extraordinary Items, as prescribed in Accounting Practices Board Opinion No. 30, should be disclosed as such in the financial statements. Previous guidance required all gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt to be classified as Extraordinary Items. This portion of SFAS No. 145 is effective for fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002, with restatement of prior periods required. In addition, SFAS No. 145 amends SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, as it relates to accounting by a lessee for certain lease modifications. Under SFAS No. 13, if a capital lease is modified in such a way that the change gives rise to a new agreement classified as an operating lease, the assets and obligation are removed, a gain or loss is recognized and the new lease is accounted for as an operating lease. Under SFAS No. 145, capital leases that are modified so the resulting lease agreement is classified as an operating lease are to be accounted for under the sale leaseback provisions of SFAS No. 98, Accounting for Leases. These provisions of SFAS No. 145 are effective for transactions occurring after May 15, 2002. SFAS No. 145 will be applied as required. Adoption of SFAS No. 145 is not expected to have a material impact on NRG Energy. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, (SFAS No. 146), SFAS No. 146 addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies EITF Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). SFAS No. 146 applies to costs associated with an exit activity that does not involve an entity newly acquired in a business combination or with a disposal activity covered by SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. The provisions of SFAS No. 146 are effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002, with early application encouraged. SFAS No. 146 will be applied as required. In December 2002, FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123. This Statement amends FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. In addition, this Statement amends the disclosure requirements of Statement 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. The provisions of 53 Table of Contents SFAS No. 148 are effective for financial statements for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002 and for interim periods beginning after December 15, 2002. In November 2002, The FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others. The initial recognition and initial measurement provisions of this interpretation are applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002, irrespective of the guarantors fiscal year end. The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. The interpretation addresses the disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial statements about its obligations under guarantees. The interpretation also clarifies the requirements related to the recognition of a liability by a guarantor at the inception of the guarantee for the obligations the guarantor has undertaken in issuing the guarantee. In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN No. 46). FIN No. 46 requires an enterprises consolidated financial statements to include subsidiaries in which the enterprise has a controlling interest. Historically, that requirement has been applied to subsidiaries in which an enterprise has a majority voting interest, but in many circumstances the enterprises consolidated financial statements do not include the consolidation of variable interest entities with which it has similar relationships but no majority voting interest. Under FIN No. 46 the voting interest approach is not effective in identifying controlling financial interest. The new rule requires that for entities to be consolidated that those assets be initially recorded at their carrying amounts at the date the requirements of the new rule first apply. If determining carrying amounts as required is impractical, then the assets are to be measured at fair value the first date the new rule applies. Any difference between the net amount of any previously recognized interest in the newly consolidated entity should be recognized as the cumulative effect of an accounting change. FIN No. 46 becomes effective in the third quarter of 2003. NRG Energy is currently evaluating this standard and is presently unable to determine its impact. California NRG Energys California generation assets include a 50% interest in the West Coast Power partnership with Dynegy. In March 2001, the California Power Exchange (PX) filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, and in April 2001, the Pacific Gas & Electric Company (PG&E) also filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11. PG&Es filing delayed collection of receivables owed to the Crockett facility. In September 2001, PG&E filed a proposed plan of reorganization. Under the terms of the proposed plan, which is subject to challenge by interested parties, unsecured creditors such as NRG Energys California affiliates would receive 60% of the amounts owed upon approval of the plan. The remaining 40% would be paid in negotiable debt with terms from 10 to 30 years. The California PXs ability to repay its debt is dependent on the extent to which it receives payments from PG&E and Southern California Edison Company (SCE). During the fourth quarter of 2002, West Coast Power recorded an approximately $117.0 million charge to write off the remaining amounts owed to it by the California PX and ISO. NRG Energys share of this charge was approximately $58.5 million (pre tax). Certain Trading Activities The tables below disclose the trading activities that include non exchange traded contracts accounted for at fair value. Specifically, these tables disaggregate realized and unrealized changes in fair value; identifies changes in fair value attributable to changes in valuation techniques; disaggregates estimated fair values at December 31, 2002 based on whether fair values are determined by quoted market prices or more subjective means; and indicates the maturities of contracts at December 31, 2002. 54 Table of Contents Trading Activity (Gains/(Losses), in thousands) Fair Value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the period $ 72,236 Contracts realized or otherwise settled during the period (119,061 ) Other changes in fair values 77,465 Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period $ 30,640 Sources of Fair Value (Gains/(Losses), in thousands) Fair Value of Contracts at Period End Maturity Maturity Total Less than Maturity Maturity in excess Fair 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years of 5 Years Value Prices actively quoted $ 5,825 $ (7,558 ) $ (1,908 ) $ (3,641 ) Prices based on models & other valuation methods $ 61,300 $ 52,560 $ (22,977 ) $ (56,602 ) $ 34,281 $ 67,125 $ 45,002 $ (22,977 ) $ (58,510 ) $ 30,640 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk NRG Energy uses a variety of financial instruments to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on its international project cash flows, interest rates on its cost of borrowing and energy and energy related commodities prices. Currency Exchange Risk NRG Energy is also subject to currency risks associated with foreign denominated distributions from international investments. In the normal course of business, NRG Energy receives distributions denominated in Australian Dollar, British Pound and Euro. Upon completion of the Itiquira plant in Brazil, NRG Energy is also subject to currency risk with the Brazilian Real. NRG Energy engages in a strategy of hedging foreign denominated cash flows through a program of matching currency inflows and outflows, and to the extent required, fixing the U.S. Dollar equivalent of net foreign denominated distributions with currency forward and swap agreements with highly credit worthy financial institutions. NRG Energy has 160 million in long term debt due 2020 which is subject to market fluctuations. As of December 31, 2002, NRG Energy had two foreign currency exchange contracts with notional amounts of $3.0 million. If the contracts had been discontinued on December 31, 2002, NRG Energy would have owed the counter parties approximately $0.3 million. Interest Rate Risk NRG Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates when entering into variable rate debt obligations to fund certain power projects. Exposure to interest rate fluctuations may be mitigated by entering into derivative instruments known as interest rate swaps, caps, collars and put or call options. These contracts reduce exposure to interest rate volatility and result in primarily fixed rate debt obligations when taking into account the combination of the variable rate debt and the interest rate derivative instrument. NRG Energys risk management policy allows the company to reduce interest rate exposure from variable rate debt obligations. During 2002, as a result of the various defaults under certain loan agreements, NRG Energys counter parties have terminated interest rate swaps with NRG Energy, Brazos Valley LP and NRG Finance Company I LLC. Until NRG Energy successfully restructures outstanding debt and returns to credit quality, NRG Energy will not seek to manage interest rate risk through the use of financial derivatives. 55 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2002, NRG Energy had various interest rate swap agreements with notional amounts totaling approximately $1.7 billion. If the swaps had been discontinued on December 31, 2002, NRG Energy would have owed the counter parties approximately $41.0 million. Based on the investment grade rating of the counter parties, NRG Energy believes that its exposure to credit risk due to nonperformance by the counter parties to its hedging contracts is insignificant. NRG Energy and its subsidiaries have both long and short term debt instruments that subject it to the risk of loss associated with movements in market interest rates. As of December 31, 2002, a 100 basis point change in the benchmark rate on NRG Energys variable rate debt would impact net income by approximately $39.3 million. As of December 31, 2001, a 100 basis point change in the benchmark rate on NRG Energys variable rate debt would have impacted net income by approximately $16.6 million. Commodity Price Risk NRG Energy is exposed to commodity price variability in electricity, emission allowances and natural gas, oil and coal used to meet fuel requirements. To manage earnings volatility associated with these commodity price risks, NRG Energy enters into financial instruments, which may take the form of fixed price, floating price or indexed sales or purchases, and options, such as puts, calls, basis transactions and swaps. NRG Energy utilizes an undiversified Value at Risk (VAR) model to estimate a maximum potential loss in the fair value of its commodity portfolio including generation assets, load obligations and bilateral physical and financial transactions. The key assumptions for the NRG Energy VAR model include (1) a lognormal distribution of price returns (2) three day holding period and (3) a 95% confidence interval. The volatility estimate is based on the implied volatility for at the money call options. This model encompasses the following generating regions: Entergy, NEPOOL, NYPP, PJM, WSCC, SPP and Main. The estimated maximum potential three day loss in fair value of its commodity portfolio, calculated using the VAR model is as follows: (In millions) Year end December 31, 2002 $ 118.6 Average 76.2 High 124.4 Low 42.0 Year end December 31, 2001 71.7 Average 78.8 High 126.6 Low 58.6 Year end December 31, 2000 116.0 Average 80.0 High 125.0 Low 50.0 NRG Power Marketing has risk management policies in place to measure and limit market and credit risk associated with NRGs power marketing activities. These policies do not permit speculative or directional trading. An independent department within NRG Power Marketing is responsible for the enforcement of such policies. NRG Energy is currently in the process of reviewing and revising these policies to reflect changes in industry dynamics and the NRG Energy reorganization. Credit Risk NRG Energy is exposed to credit risk in its risk management activities. Credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a counter party of its contractual obligations. NRG Energy actively manages its counter party credit risk. NRG Energy has an established credit policy in place to minimize 56 Table of Contents overall credit risk. Important elements of this policy include ongoing financial reviews of all counter parties, established credit limits, as well as monitoring, managing, and mitigating credit exposure. 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Due to the factors discussed below, as well as other matters discussed herein, NRG Energys financial condition has deteriorated significantly in the recent past. See Liquidity below. As a result, NRG Energy does not contemplate that it will have sufficient funds to make required principal and interest payments on its corporate debt, which means that NRG Energy will remain in default of the various corporate level debt obligations discussed more fully herein. In the absence of a consensual out of court restructuring or a Chapter 11 reorganization, it is highly likely that NRG Energy will be required to commence chapter 11 bankruptcy cases to allow it to implement its own plan of reorganization. The commencement of a voluntary chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding without a consensual plan of reorganization will increase the possibility of a prolonged bankruptcy proceeding. Industry Dynamics An unregulated merchant power company in the United States can be characterized in two ways, as a generator or as an energy merchant, with some companies having characteristics of both. In the United States generators are either outgrowths of regulated utilities, developers or are independent aggregators of plants divested by utilities. Generators have grown through acquisitions or the construction of new power plants. Energy merchants have emphasized risk management and trading skills over the ownership of physical assets. Energy deregulation paved the way for development of these companies, with utilities in some regions forced to sell off some of their generating capacity and buy electricity on the wholesale market or through power procurement agreements. 30 Table of Contents Both generators and energy merchants prospered in the late 1990s. Starting in 1999, however, a number of factors began to arise which had a negative effect on the business model for merchant power companies. These factors included: California When California restructured its electricity industry in the mid 1990s, it required utilities to sell generation assets and buy electricity on the wholesale spot market, without the stability of long term contracts. At the time, California had adequate supplies of power, but the State of California was experiencing unusually high electricity demand growth while new capacity additions were not keeping pace. Supply began to lag behind demand, and previously moderate weather gave way to dryer conditions, reducing hydroelectric supply. Shortages and blackouts ensued in 1999 and 2000. Meanwhile, as wholesale electricity prices moved higher, utilities were not allowed to pass higher costs on to consumers under Californias regulatory regime. Utilities were unable to bear the financial burden, PG&E sought Chapter 11 protection, and California took over the role of procuring electricity for the utilities. Politicians have criticized the electricity generators and the energy merchants, accusing them of improperly manipulating supply, demand and market rules. Merchant power companies in California are now embroiled in protracted litigation with California and private parties, which is discouraging new investment. Economy The United States economy, already headed towards a recession by mid 2001, suffered a heavy blow on September 11, 2001. This, along with a decrease in economically driven electricity demand, exacerbated the drop in stock valuations of the energy merchants. Other regions of the world economy have suffered problems as well, which has exposed companies with international assets to losses based on severe currency fluctuations. Weather On the whole, the summer of 2001, the winter of 2001/2002 and the summer of 2002 were mild in the United States. This together with excessive new construction in many markets has driven down energy prices significantly. Enron The bankruptcy of Enron has devastated the merchant power industry. The public and political perception created by Enron put a stigma on the industry, drove investors away and increased scrutiny of the industry. Enron also played a key role in the energy trading markets, providing a widely used electronic trading platform that accounted for an enormous amount of trading volume. No other company has stepped in to fill this role, and as a result the electricity markets have become far less efficient and liquid. Credit ratings The credit rating agencies were sharply criticized for not foreseeing Enrons problems. As a result, the agencies have been quick to scrutinize the rest of the industry, and have tightened their criteria for creditworthiness. The agencies have downgraded most, if not all, of the industry participants. Many of these downgrades were severe ratings at times were dropped several notches at once, or dropped more than once in a span of weeks. This has resulted in most of the energy companies, generators and merchants having non investment grade credit ratings at this time. Oversupply As wholesale electricity prices and market liquidity increased in the late 1990s the industry went on a building boom. Through 2001 capital was readily available for the industry, encouraging companies to build new generation facilities. The years 2000 and 2001 saw record megawatt capacity additions in the United States, and record years were on the horizon for 2002 and 2003. Even with steady economic growth this would have created an oversupply of generation. Limited economic growth and recession have exacerbated the oversupply situation. Results of Operations For the Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2001 Net Loss During the year ended December 31, 2002, NRG Energy recognized a net loss of $3,464.3 million. This loss represented a decrease in earnings of $3,729.5 million compared to net income of $265.2 million for the same period in 2001. NRG Energys loss from continuing operations was $2,907.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to net income of $218.2 million from continuing operations for the same period 31 Table of Contents in 2001. The loss from continuing operations incurred during 2002 primarily consists of $2,656.1 million of special charges comprised primarily of asset impairments. During 2002, NRG Energys continuing operations experienced less favorable results than those experienced during the same period 2001. Overall, NRG Energys domestic power generation operations were less favorable than compared to the same period in 2001. NRG Energys domestic operations experienced reductions in domestic energy and capacity sales and an overall decrease in power pool prices and related spark spreads (the monetary difference between the price of power and fuel cost). During the fourth quarter of 2002, an additional reserve for uncollectible receivables in California was established by West Coast Power, which reduced NRG Energys equity earnings by approximately $58.5 million on a pre tax basis. In addition, West Coast Powers results were already less than those recorded in 2001 due to less favorable contracts and reductions in sales of energy and capacity. In addition, increased administrative costs, depreciation and interest expense from completed construction costs also contributed to the less than favorable results in 2002. Partially off setting these earnings reductions was the recognition, in the fourth quarter of 2002, of approximately $51 million of additional revenues related to the contractual termination of a power purchase agreement with NRG Energys Indian River project. During the third quarter of 2002, NRG Energy experienced credit rating downgrades, defaults under certain credit agreements, increased collateral requirements and reduced liquidity. These events led to impairments on a number of NRG Energy assets, resulting in pre tax charges related to continuing operations of approximately $2,544.8 million during 2002. In addition, approximately $196.2 million of net losses on sales and write downs of equity method investments were recorded in 2002. Operating results of majority owned projects that were sold or have met the criteria to be considered as held for sale have been classified as discontinued operations. As of December 31, 2002, NRG Energys Killingholme project and Hsin Yu project were classified as held for sale. The sales of Bulo Bulo, Csepel, Entrade and Crockett had been completed. In addition, the sale of NRG Energys investments in Mt. Poso, Collinsville, EDL, Sabine River Works, Kingston and NEO MESI had also taken place. The sale of NRG Energys investment in ECKG was pending at the end of 2002, and was completed in January 2003, along with the transfer of NRG Energys ownership interest in the Killingholme and the transfer of the ownership interest in the Brazos Valley project to its lenders. During 2002, NRG Energy expensed approximately $111.3 million in 2002 for costs related to its financial restructuring. These costs include expenses for financial and legal advisors, contract termination costs, employee separation and other restructuring activities. Revenues and Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates During 2002, total operating revenues and equity earnings from continuing operations were $2,281.1 million compared to $2,411.5 million in the prior year, a decrease of $130.4 million, or 5.4%. The primary reason for this decrease was a reduction in Equity earnings from unconsolidated affiliates of $141.0 million. The $141.0 million decrease in equity earnings from unconsolidated affiliates is due primarily to lower results at West Coast Power in 2002 as compared to the same period in 2001. During 2002, West Coast Power had long term contracts that were less favorable than those held in 2001. In addition during 2002, West Coast Power also established reserves for certain receivables not considered recoverable. NRG Energys share of this reserve was approximately $58.5 million on a pre tax basis. Revenues from Majority Owned Operations NRG Energys operating revenues from majority owned operations were $2,212.2 million in 2002 compared to $2,201.4 million in the prior year, an increase of $10.8 million or approximately 0.5%. Revenues from majority owned operations for the year ended December 31, 2002, consisted primarily of power generation revenues from domestic operations of approximately $1,650.9 million in 2002 compared with $1,679.6 million in 2001, a decrease of $28.7 million. This decrease in domestic generation revenue is due to reductions in energy and capacity sales and an overall decrease in power pool prices. 32 Table of Contents Within the North American Segment, NRG Energys Eastern region revenues decreased by approximately 20.9%. The Eastern region revenues were significantly affected by a combination of lower capacity revenues and a decline in megawatt hour generation compared with 2001. This decline in generation is attributable to an unseasonably warm winter and cooler spring and a slowing economy which reduced demand for electricity, together with new regulation which reduced price volatility, particularly in New York City. The Central region generated increased revenues of 39.9% primarily due to a full year of operations compared to plants acquired and completed in 2001. NRG Energys International revenues from majority owned operations increased by $22.4 million or 7.1% from 2001 to 2002. The Asia Pacific region reported a reduction in revenues of $42.4 million while increases were reported from Europe of $34.9 million and Other Americas of $29.9 million. The reduction in Asia Pacific revenue is primarily due to a decline in energy prices and the loss of a significant contract at Flinders. The increase in Europe and other Americas revenue is primarily due to a full year of operations for acquisitions made in 2001. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates For the year ended December 31, 2002, NRG Energy had equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $69.0 million, compared to $210.0 million for 2001, a decrease of $141.0 million or approximately 67.1%. The $141.1 million decrease in Equity earnings from unconsolidated affiliates is due primarily to unfavorable results at West Coast Power in 2002 as compared to the same period in 2001. During 2002, West Coast Power had long term contracts that were less favorable than those held in 2001. In addition during 2002, West Coast Power established reserves for certain receivables not considered recoverable. NRG Energys share of this reserve was approximately $58.5 million on a pre tax basis. Operating Costs and Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2002, cost of majority owned operations related to continuing operations was $1,510.6 million compared to $1,430.0 million for 2001, an increase of $80.6 million or approximately 5.6%. For the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, cost of majority owned operations represented approximately 68.3% and 65.0% of revenues from majority owned operations, respectively. Cost of majority owned operations consists primarily of cost of energy (primarily fuel costs), labor, operating and maintenance costs and non income based taxes related to NRG Energys majority owned operations. Cost of energy increased from $974.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 to $1,015.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. This represents an increase of $40.5 million or 4.2%. As a percent of revenue from majority owned operations cost of energy was 45.9% and 44.2% for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Operating and maintenance costs increased from $356.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 to $415.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. This represents an increase of $58.9 million or 16.5%. As a percent of revenue from majority owned operations, operating and maintenance costs represented 18.8% and 16.2%, for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The dollar increase in operating and maintenance expense is primarily due to a full year of expense in 2002 related to assets acquired during 2001. Depreciation and Amortization For the year ended December 31, 2002, depreciation and amortization related to continuing operations was $256.2 million, compared to $169.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, an increase of $86.6 million or approximately 51.1%. This increase is primarily due to the addition of property, plant and equipment related to NRG Energys recently completed acquisitions of electric generating facilities. General, Administrative and Development For the year ended December 31, 2002, general, administrative and development costs were $250.1 million, compared to $193.9 million, an increase of $56.2 million or approximately 29.0%. For the year ended 33 Table of Contents December 31, 2002 and 2001, general, administrative and development costs represent 11.3% and 8.8% of revenues from majority owned operations, respectively. This increase is primarily due to an increase in bad debt expense of approximately $39.2 million over 2001. Additionally there was an increase in other general administrative expenses due to 2001 acquisitions, newly constructed facilities coming on line. These increases were partially offset by decreases in business development expenses and other reductions to costs previously incurred to support international and expanded operations. Write Downs and Losses on Sales of Equity Method Investments For the year ended December 31, 2002, write downs and losses on equity method investments were $196.2 million. The $196.2 million charge consists primarily of write downs taken related to NRG Energys investment in Loy Yang in the total amount of $111.4 million. In addition, NRG Energy recorded a loss of $48.4 million upon the transfer of its investment in SRW Cogeneration and recorded write downs of $14.2 million and $3.6 million of its investments in EDL and Collinsville, respectively. Special Charges During the third quarter of 2002, NRG Energy experienced credit rating downgrades, defaults under certain credit agreements, increased collateral requirements and reduced liquidity. NRG Energy applied the provisions of SFAS No. 144 to its construction and operational projects. NRG Energy completed an analysis of the recoverability of the asset carrying values of its projects factoring in the probability of different courses of action available to NRG Energy given its financial position and liquidity constraints. As a result, NRG Energy determined during the third quarter that many of its construction projects and certain operational projects were impaired and should be written down to fair market value. To estimate fair value, NRG Energy management considered discounted cash flow analyses, bids and offers related to those projects and prices of similar assets. During 2002, NRG Energy recorded asset impairment and other special charges related to continuing operations of $2,656.1 million. See Item 15 Note 3 to the Consolidated financial statements and notes of this Form 10 K for additional information. Additional asset impairments and other charges may be recorded by NRG Energy in periods subsequent to December 31, 2002, given the changing business conditions and the resolution of the pending restructuring plan. Management is unable to determine the possible magnitude of any additional asset impairments. During 2002, NRG Energy expensed charges of $25.6 million for expected severance costs, primarily related to terminated executives, associated with the restructuring of NRG Energy, and of this amount, $4.7 million of cash was paid as of December 31, 2002. In addition to asset impairment charges and severance costs, NRG Energy has incurred $85.8 million of restructuring costs consisting of financial and legal advisor fees, contract termination fees and other such costs. NRG Energy expects that costs such as these will continue for the near term as NRG Energy continues to restructure its operations. NRG Energy is also impacted by rule/tariff changes that occur in the existing ISOs. On March 1, 2003, ISO NE implemented its version of Standard Market Design. This change dramatically modifies the New England market structure by incorporating Locational Marginal Pricing (LMP pricing by location rather than on a New England wide basis.) Even though NRG Energy views this change as a significant improvement to the existing market design, NRG Energy still views the market within New England as insufficient to allow for NRG Energy to recover its costs and earn a reasonable return on investment. Consequently, on February 26, 2003, NRG Energy filed and requested a cost of service rate with FERC for most of its Connecticut fleet, requesting a February 27th effective date. NRG Energy remains committed to working with ISO NE, FERC and other stakeholders to continue to improve the New England market that will hopefully make further reliance on a cost of service rate unnecessary. While NRG Energy has the right to file for such rate treatment, there are no assurances that FERC will grant such rates in the form or amount that NRG Energy petitioned for in its filing. If FERC declines to grant cost of service based rates in Connecticut, there may be additional impairments related to the Connecticut assets. 34 Table of Contents On March 25, 2003, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued an order (the Order) in response to Devon Power LLCs, Middletown Power LLCs, Montville Power LLCs, and Norwalk Power LLCs (collectively, NRG Subsidiaries) Joint Motion for Emergency Expedited Issuance of Order by March 17, 2003 in Docket No. ER03 563 000 (the Emergency Motion). In the Emergency Motion, the NRG Subsidiaries requested that FERC accept the NRG Subsidiaries reliability must run agreements and assure the NRG Subsidiaries recovery of maintenance costs for their New England generating facilities prior to the peak summer season. FERC accepted the NRG Subsidiaries filing as to the recovery of spring 2003 maintenance costs, subject to refund. FERCs Order authorizes the ISO New England Inc. to begin collecting these maintenance costs in escrow for the benefit of the NRG Subsidiaries as of February 27, 2003. Several intervenors protested the Emergency Motion. FERC will rule on such protests and the other issues raised in the Emergency Motion in a subsequent order. Other Income (Expense) For the year ended December 31, 2002, total other expense was $485.0 million, compared to $371.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, an increase of $113.3 million or approximately 30.5%. The increase in total other expense from 2001 consisted primarily of an increase in interest expense. For the year ended December 31, 2002, interest expense (which includes both corporate and project level interest expense) was $494.0 million, compared to $389.3 million in 2001, an increase of $104.7 million or approximately 26.9%. This increase is due primarily to increased corporate and project level debt. NRG Energy issued substantial amounts of long term debt at both the corporate level (recourse debt) and project level (non recourse debt) to either directly finance the acquisition of electric generating facilities or refinance short term bridge loans incurred to finance such acquisitions. For the year ended December 31, 2002, minority interest in earnings of consolidated subsidiaries was a gain of $4.8 million, compared to a loss of $2.3 million, an increase of $7.1 million, as compared to 2001. The decrease is primarily due to lower earnings from Timber Energy Resources, as compared to 2001. For the year ended December 31, 2002, other income, net, was a gain of $4.2 million, as compared to $19.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, a decrease of $15.7 million, or approximately 78.9%. Other income, net consists primarily of interest income on cash balances and realized and unrealized foreign currency exchange gains and losses. Income tax It is likely that Xcel Energy will not request Internal Revenue Service consent to consolidate NRG Energy for income tax purposes for 2002. Therefore, the income tax provision for NRG Energy is based on a consolidated NRG Energy group through June 3, 2002, and separate income tax returns starting June 4, 2002. On a stand alone basis, it is uncertain if NRG Energy would be able to fully realize tax benefits on its losses and therefore a valuation allowance has been provided. For the year ended December 31, 2002, income tax benefit from continuing operations was $165.4 million, compared to an income tax expense of $28.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, a decrease of $193.5 million. NRG Energy recorded an income tax benefit in 2002 for operating losses to the extent realization was considered more likely than not. Tax benefits were not recorded for items NRG was uncertain that there would be sufficient operating losses to offset operating income in future periods. Discontinued Operations As of December 31, 2002, NRG Energy has classified the operations and gains/losses recognized on the sales of certain entities as discontinued operations. Discontinued operations consist of the historical operations and net gains/losses related to its Crockett Cogeneration, Entrade, Killingholme, Csepel, Hsin Yu and Bulo Bulo projects that were sold in 2002 or were deemed to have met the required criteria for such classification 35 Table of Contents pending final disposition (the Killingholme and Hsin Yu projects). For 2002, the results of operations related to such discontinued operations was a net loss of $556.6 million as compared to a gain of $47.0 million for the same period in 2001. The primary reason for the loss recognized in 2002 is due to asset impairments recorded at Killingholme and Hsin Yu. For the Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2000 Net Income Net income for 2001 was $265.2 million, compared to $182.9 million for 2000, an increase of $82.3 million or approximately 45.0%. Net income for 2001 increased by $82.3 million due to the factors described below. Revenues and Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates For the year ended December 31, 2001, NRG Energy had total revenues and equity earnings from continuing operations of $2,411.5 million, compared to $1,810.1 million for 2000, an increase of $601.4 million or approximately 33.2%. Revenues from majority owned operations NRG Energys operating revenues from majority owned operations were $2,201.4 million compared to $1,670.8 million, an increase of $530.6 million or approximately 31.8%. Revenues from majority owned operations for the year ended December 31, 2001 consisted primarily of power generation revenues from domestic operations of approximately $1,679.6 million, operations in Europe of $72.6 million, Asia Pacific $214.8 million and Other Americas $28.2 million, resulting in increases of $231.3 million, $71.2 million, $120.0 million and $27.9 million compared to 2000, respectively. In addition, NRG Energy recognized revenues from majority owned operations from its alternative energy, thermal and other operations of approximately $79.5 million, $108.3 million and $18.5 million respectively, resulting in increases of $45.1 million, $23.4 million and $11.7 million compared to 2000, respectively. The increase of $231.3 million related to NRG Energys domestic power generation operations is due primarily to additional sales at NRG Energys Eastern region facilities which were acquired in June 2001 from Conectiv and increased sales at NRG Energys South Central region facilities which were primarily acquired in March 2000 from Cajun Electric and expanded with the acquisition of the Batesville facility from LS Power in January 2001 and completion of the Sterlington and Big Cajun 1 peaking facilities in 2001. The increase of $71.2 million related to NRG Energys Europe power generation operations is due primarily to operations at Saale Energie in Germany (SEG). The increase of $120.0 million related to NRG Energys Asia Pacifics power generation operations is due primarily to a full year of operations at the Flinders Power facilities which was acquired in August 2000. The increase of $27.9 million related to NRG Energys Other Americas power generation operations is due primarily to the consolidation in 2001 of the COBEE facility which was previously accounted for under the equity method. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates For the year ended December 31, 2001, NRG Energy had equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $210.0 million, compared to $139.4 million for 2000, an increase of $70.6 million or approximately 50.6%. The increase of $70.6 million is primarily comprised of favorable results from NRG Energys domestic and international power generation equity investments. During 2001, NRG Energys domestic power generation investment in West Coast Power contributed $41.0 million of this increase. Additionally, approximately $40.2 million of the increase is from NRG Energys international power generation investments. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable results at NRG Energys other investments accounted for under 36 Table of Contents the equity method and continued reductions in the equity earnings attributable to NEO Corporation. NEO Corporation derives a significant portion of its net income from Section 29 tax credits. Operating Costs and Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2001, cost of majority owned operations was $1,430.0 million compared to $1,060.1 million for 2000, an increase of $369.9 million or approximately 34.9%. For the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, cost of majority owned operations represented approximately 65.0% and 63.4% of revenues from majority owned operations, respectively. Cost of majority owned operations consists primarily of cost of energy (primarily fuel costs), labor, operating and maintenance costs and non income based taxes related to NRG Energys majority owned operations. Cost of energy increased from $718.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000 to $974.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 primarily due to 2001 domestic and international acquisitions. This represents an increase of $256.3 million or 35.7%. As a percent of revenue from majority owned operations, cost of energy was 44.3% and 43.0% for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Approximately 69.3% of the increase in operating costs and expenses for 2001 compared to 2000 of $369.9 million is primarily due to increased cost of energy. Operating and maintenance costs increased from $259.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000 to $356.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. This represents an increase of $97.5 million or 37.6%. As a percent of revenue from majority owned operations operating and maintenance costs represented 16.2% and 15.5%, for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The dollar increase in operating and maintenance expense is primarily due to 2001 domestic and international acquisitions. Depreciation and Amortization For the year ended December 31, 2001, depreciation and amortization from continuing operations was $169.6 million, compared to $97.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, an increase of $72.3 million or approximately 74.3%. This increase is primarily due to the addition of property, plant and equipment related to NRG Energys recently completed acquisitions of electric generating facilities. General, Administrative and Development For the year ended December 31, 2001, general, administrative and development costs were $193.9 million, compared to $169.0 million, an increase of $24.9 million or approximately 14.7%. This increase is primarily due to increased business development activities, associated legal, technical and accounting expenses, employees and equipment resulting from expanded operations and pending acquisitions. This also includes a $10.3 million expense related to Enrons bankruptcy. This amount includes a pre tax charge of $22.4 million to establish bad debt reserves, which was partially offset by a pre tax gain of $12.1 million on a credit swap agreement entered into as part of the NRG Energys credit risk management program. Other Income (Expense) For the year ended December 31, 2001, total other expense was $371.7 million, compared to $245.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, an increase of $125.9 million or approximately 51.2%. The increase in total other expense of $125.9 million, from 2000, consisted primarily of an increase in interest expense that was partially offset by an increase in other income and a reduction in minority interest in earnings of consolidated subsidiaries. For the year ended December 31, 2001, interest expense (which includes both corporate and project level interest expense) was $389.3 million, compared to $250.8 million in 2000, an increase of $138.5 million or approximately 55.2%. This increase is due to increased corporate and project level debt issued during 2001. During 2001, NRG Energy issued substantial amounts of long term debt at both the corporate level (recourse debt) and project level (non recourse debt) to either directly finance the acquisition of electric generating facilities or refinance short term bridge loans incurred to finance such acquisitions. 37 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2001, minority interest in earnings of consolidated subsidiaries was $2.2 million, compared to $0.8 million, an increase of $1.4 million or approximately 175.0%, as compared to 2000. For the year ended December 31, 2001, other income, net, was $19.9 million, as compared to $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, an increase of $14.1 million, or approximately 243.1%. Other income, net, consists primarily of interest income on cash balances and loans to affiliates, and miscellaneous other items, including the income statement impact of certain foreign currency translation adjustments and the impact of gains and losses on the dispositions of investments. Approximately $18.0 million of the increase relates to interest on cash balances and loans to affiliates, primarily West Coast Power. The increase also includes gains on foreign currency translation adjustments and miscellaneous asset sales that were partially offset by a $3.8 million charge to write off capitalized costs associated with the Estonia project. Income Tax For the year ended December 31, 2001, income tax expense was $28.1 million, compared to an income tax expense of $86.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, a decrease of $58.8 million. Approximately $14.7 million of the decrease is attributed to additional IRC Section 29 energy credits that were recorded in 2001, as compared to the same period in 2000. NRG Energy reported a worldwide effective tax rate of approximately 11.4% for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to approximately 36.5% for the year ended December 31, 2000. The overall reduction in tax rates was primarily due to the increase in energy credits, the implementation of state tax planning strategies and a higher percentage of NRG Energys overall earnings derived from foreign projects in lower tax jurisdictions. Discontinued Operations Income from discontinued operations was $47.0 million in 2001 compared to $32.0 million in 2000. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates NRG Energys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon NRG Energys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements and related disclosures in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires the application of appropriate technical accounting rules and guidance as well as the use of estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. The application of these policies necessarily involves judgments regarding future events, including the likelihood of success of particular projects, legal and regulatory challenges. These judgments, in and of themselves, could materially impact the financial statements and disclosures based on varying assumptions, which may be appropriate to use. In addition, the financial and operating environment also may have a significant effect, not only on the operation of the business, but on the results reported through the application of accounting measures used in preparing the financial statements and related disclosures, even if the nature of the accounting policies have not changed. On an ongoing basis, NRG Energy, evaluates its estimates, utilizing historic experience, consultation with experts and other methods NRG Energy considers reasonable. In any case, actual results may differ significantly from NRG Energys estimates. Any effects on NRG Energys business, financial position or results of operations resulting from revisions to these estimates are recorded in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. NRG Energys significant accounting policies are summarized in Item 15 Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table identifies certain of the significant accounting policies listed in Item 15 Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The table also identifies the judgments required and uncertainties involved in the application of each. These policies, along with the underlying assumptions and judgments made by NRG Energys management in their application, have a significant impact on NRG Energys consolidated financial statements. NRG Energy identifies its most critical accounting policies as those that are the most pervasive and important to the portrayal of NRG Energys financial position and 38 Table of Contents results of operations, and that require the most difficult, subjective and or complex judgments by management regarding estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Accounting Policy Judgments/Uncertainties Affecting Application Capitalization Practices/ Purchase Accounting Determination of beginning and ending of capitalization periods Allocation of purchase prices to identified assets Asset Valuation and Impairment Recoverability of investment through future operations Regulatory and political environments and requirements Estimated useful lives of assets Environmental obligations and operational limitations Estimates of future cash flows Estimates of fair value Judgment about triggering events Revenue Recognition Customer/counter party dispute resolution practices Market maturity and economic conditions Contract interpretation Uncollectible Receivables Economic conditions affecting customers, counter parties, suppliers and market prices Regulatory environment and impact on customer financial condition Outcome of litigation and bankruptcy proceedings Derivative Financial Instruments Market conditions in the energy industry, especially the effects of price volatility on contractual commitments Assumptions used in valuation models Counter party credit risk Market conditions in foreign countries Regulatory and political environments and requirements Litigation Claims and Assessments Impacts of court decisions Estimates of ultimate liabilities arising from legal claims Income Taxes and Valuation Allowance for Deferred Tax Assets Ability of tax authority decisions to withstand legal challenges or appeals Anticipated future decisions of tax authorities Application of tax statutes and regulations to transactions. Ability to utilize tax benefits through carrybacks to prior periods and carryforwards to future periods. Filing elections that may be made by Xcel Energy to include NRG Energy in its consolidated tax return Of all of the accounting policies identified in the above table, NRG Energy believes that the following policies and the application thereof to be those having the most direct impact on NRG Energys financial position and results of operations. Capitalization Practices and Purchase Accounting As of December 31, 2002, NRG Energy has a carrying value of approximately $6.8 billion of net property, plant and equipment, $623.8 million of which is under construction or turbines being marketed, representing approximately 62.4% and 5.7% of total assets, respectively. The majority of the carrying value of 39 Table of Contents property, plant and equipment is the result of NRG Energys recent asset acquisitions and constructions. These amounts represent the estimated fair values at the date of acquisition and construction. For those assets that were or are being constructed by NRG Energy the carrying value reflects the application of NRG Energys property, plant and equipment policies which incorporate estimates, assumptions and judgments by management relative to the capitalized costs and useful lives of NRG Energys generating facilities. Interest incurred on funds borrowed to finance projects expected to require more than three months to complete is capitalized. Capitalization of interest is discontinued when the asset under construction is ready for its intended use or when construction is terminated. Capitalized interest was approximately $64.8 million in 2002. Development costs and capitalized project costs include third party professional services, permits, and other costs which are incurred incidental to a particular project. Such costs are expensed as incurred until an acquisition agreement or letter of intent is signed, and the project has been approved by NRG Energys Board of Directors. Additional costs incurred after this point are capitalized. When a project begins operation, previously capitalized project costs are reclassified to equity investments in affiliates or property plant and equipment and amortized on a straight line basis over the lesser of the life of the projects related assets or revenue contract period. Impairment of Long Lived Assets NRG Energy evaluates property, plant and equipment and intangible assets for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the assets to the future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, through considering project specific assumptions for long term power pool prices, escalated future project operating costs and expected plant operations. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets by factoring in the probability weighting of different courses of action available to NRG Energy. Generally, fair value will be determined using valuation techniques such as the present value of expected future cash flows. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less the cost to sell. As of December 31, 2002, net income from continuing operations was reduced by $2.5 billion due to impairments recorded in 2002. Asset impairment evaluations are, by nature highly subjective. Revenue Recognition and Uncollectible Receivables NRG Energy is primarily an electric generation company, operating a portfolio of majority owned electric generating plants and certain plants in which its ownership is 50% or less which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. NRG Energy also produces thermal energy for sale to customers and collects methane gas from landfill sites, which is then used for the generation of electricity. Both physical and financial transactions are entered into to optimize the financial performance of NRG Energys generating facilities. Electric energy is recognized upon transmission to the customer. Capacity and ancillary revenue is recognized when contractually earned. Revenues from operations and maintenance services is recognized when the services are performed. NRG Energy uses the equity method of accounting to recognize its pro rata share of the net income or loss of its unconsolidated investments. NRG Energy continually assesses the collectibility of its receivables, and in the event it believes a receivable to be uncollectible, an allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded or, in the event of a contractual dispute, the receivable and corresponding revenue may be considered unlikely of recovery and not recorded in the financial statements until management is satisfied that it will be collected. Derivative Financial Instruments In January 2001, NRG Energy adopted SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended by SFAS No. 137 and SFAS No. 138. SFAS No. 133 requires NRG Energy to record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of non hedge derivatives are immediately recognized in earnings. Changes in the fair value of derivatives accounted for as hedges are either recognized in earnings as an offset to the changes in the fair value of the related hedged assets, liabilities and firm commitments or for forecasted transactions, deferred and recorded as a component of accumulated 40 Table of Contents other comprehensive income (OCI) until the hedged transactions occur and are recognized in earnings. NRG Energy primarily applies SFAS No. 133 to long term power sales contracts, long term gas purchase contracts and other energy related commodities and financial instruments used to mitigate variability in earnings due to fluctuations in spot market prices, hedge fuel requirements at generation facilities and protect investments in fuel inventories. SFAS No. 133 also applies to interest rate swaps and foreign currency exchange rate contracts. The application of SFAS No. 133 results in increased volatility in earnings due to the impact market prices have on the market positions and financial instruments that NRG Energy has entered into. In determining the fair value of these derivative/financial instruments NRG Energy uses estimates, various assumptions, judgment of management and when considered appropriate third party experts in determining the fair value of these derivatives. Liquidity and Capital Resources In December 2001, Moodys Investor Service (Moodys) placed NRG Energys long term senior unsecured debt rating on review for possible downgrade. In response, Xcel Energy and NRG Energy put into effect a plan to preserve NRG Energys investment grade rating and improve its financial condition. This plan included financial support to NRG Energy from Xcel Energy; marketing certain NRG Energy assets for sale; canceling and deferring capital spending; and reducing corporate expenses. In response to a possible downgrade, during 2002, Xcel Energy contributed $500 million to NRG Energy, and NRG Energy and its subsidiaries sold assets and businesses that provided NRG Energy in excess of $286 million in cash and eliminated approximately $432.0 million in debt. NRG Energy also cancelled or deferred construction of approximately 3,900 MW of new generation projects. On July 26, 2002, Standard & Poors (S&P) downgraded NRG Energys senior unsecured bonds to below investment grade, and three days later Moodys also downgraded NRG Energys senior unsecured debt rating to below investment grade. Since July 2002, NRG Energy senior unsecured debt, as well as the secured NRG Northeast Generating LLC bonds and the secured NRG South Central Generating LLC bonds and Secured LSP Energy (Batesville) bonds were downgraded multiple times. After NRG Energy failed to make payments due under certain unsecured bond obligations on September 16, 2002, both Moodys and S&P lowered their ratings on NRG Energys and its subsidiaries unsecured bonds once again. Currently, NRG Energys unsecured bonds carry a rating of between CCC and D at S&P and between Ca and C at Moodys, depending on the specific debt issue. As a result of the downgrade of NRG Energys credit rating, declining power prices, increasing fuel prices, the overall down turn in the energy industry, and the overall down turn in the economy, NRG Energy has experienced severe financial difficulties. These difficulties have caused NRG Energy to, among other things, miss scheduled principal and interest payments due to its corporate lenders and bondholders, prepay for fuel and other related delivery and transportation services and provide performance collateral in certain instances NRG Energy has also recorded asset impairment charges of approximately $3.1 billion, related to various operating projects as well as for projects that were under construction which NRG Energy has stopped funding. 41 Table of Contents NRG Energy and its subsidiaries have failed to timely make the following interest and or principal payments on its indebtedness: Amount Interest Principal Debt ($ in millions) Issued Rate Maturity Due Due Date Due Recourse Debt (unsecured) NRG Energy ROARS $ 250.0 8.700 % 3/15/2005 $ 10.9 9/16/2002 $ 250.0 8.700 % 3/15/2005 $ 10.9 3/17/2003 NRG Energy senior notes $ 350.0 8.250 % 9/15/2010 $ 14.4 9/16/2002 $ 350.0 8.250 % 9/15/2010 $ 14.4 3/17/2003 NRG Energy senior notes $ 350.0 7.750 % 4/1/2011 $ 13.6 10/1/2002 NRG Energy senior notes $ 500.0 8.625 % 4/1/2031 $ 21.6 10/1/2002 NRG Energy senior notes $ 240.0 8.000 % 11/1/2003 $ 9.6 11/1/2002 NRG Energy senior notes $ 300.0 7.500 % 6/1/2009 $ 11.3 12/1/2002 NRG Energy senior notes $ 250.0 7.500 % 6/15/2007 $ 9.4 12/15/2002 NRG Energy senior notes $ 340.0 6.750 % 7/15/2006 $ 11.5 1/15/2003 NRG Energy senior debentures (NRZ Equity Units) $ 287.5 6.500 % 5/16/2006 $ 4.7 11/16/2002 $ 287.5 6.500 % 5/16/2006 $ 4.7 2/17/2003 NRG Energy senior notes $ 125.0 7.625 % 2/1/2006 $ 4.8 2/1/2003 NRG Energy 364 day corporate revolving facility $ 1,000.0 various 3/7/2003 $ 7.6 9/30/2002 $ 1,000.0 various 3/7/2003 $ 18.6 12/31/2002 Non Recourse Debt (secured) NRG Northeast Generating LLC $ 320.0 8.065 % 12/15/2004 $ 5.1 $ 53.5 12/15/2002 NRG Northeast Generating LLC $ 130.0 8.842 % 6/15/2015 $ 5.7 12/15/2002 NRG Northeast Generating LLC $ 300.0 9.292 % 12/15/2024 $ 13.9 12/15/2002 NRG South Central Generating LLC $ 500.0 8.962 % 3/15/2016 $ 20.2 $ 12.8 9/16/2002 $ 500.0 8.962 % 3/15/2016 $ 12.8 3/17/2003 NRG South Central Generating LLC $ 300.0 9.479 % 9/15/2024 $ 14.2 9/16/2002 These missed payments may have also resulted in cross defaults of numerous other non recourse and limited recourse debt instruments of NRG Energy. In addition, the following issues have been accelerated, rendering the debt immediately due and payable: on November 6, 2002, lenders to NRG Energy accelerated the approximately $1.1 billion of debt under the construction revolver facility; on November 21, 2002, the bond trustee, on behalf of bondholders, accelerated the approximately $750 million of debt under the NRG South Central Generating, LLC facility; and on February 27, 2003, ABN Amro as administrative agent, accelerated the approximately $1.0 billion corporate revolver financing facility. Since September, the following payments were made: on December 10, 2002, $16.0 million in interest, principal, and swap payments were made from restricted cash accounts in relation to the $325,000,000 Series A Floating Rate Senior Secured Bonds due 2019, issued by NRG Peaker Finance Company LLC (the Peaker financing facility); on December 27, 2002, NRG Northeast made the $24.7 million interest payment due on the NRG Northeast bonds but failed to make the $53.5 million principal payment; in January 2003, the South Central Generating bondholders unilaterally withdrew $35.6 million from a restricted revenue account relating to the September 15, 2002 interest payment and fees; and on March 17, 2003 South Central bondholders were paid $34.4 million due in relation to the March semi annual interest payment, but the $12.8 million principal payment was deferred. In addition to the payment defaults described above, prior to the downgrades many corporate guarantees and commitments of NRG Energy and its subsidiaries required that they be supported or replaced with letters 42 Table of Contents of credit or cash collateral within 5 to 30 days of a ratings downgrade below Baa3 or BBB by Moodys or Standard & Poors, respectively. As a result of the downgrades on July 26 and July 29, NRG Energy received demands to post collateral aggregating approximately $1.1 billion. On August 19, 2002, NRG Energy executed a Collateral Call Extension Letter (CCEL) with various secured project lender groups in which the banks agreed to extend until September 13, 2002, the deadline by which NRG Energy was to post its approximately $1.0 billion of cash collateral in connection with certain bank loan agreements. Effective as of September 13, 2002, NRG Energy and these various secured project lenders entered into a Second Collateral Call Extension Letter (Second CCEL) that extended the deadline until November 15, 2002. Under the Second CCEL, NRG Energy agreed to submit to the lenders a comprehensive restructuring plan. NRG Energy submitted this plan on November 4, 2002 and continues to work with its lenders and advisors on an overall restructuring of its debt (see further discussion below). The November 15, 2002 deadline of the second CCEL passed without NRG Energy posting the required collateral. NRG Energy and the secured project lenders continue to work toward a plan of restructuring. In August 2002, NRG Energy retained financial and legal restructuring advisors to assist its management in the preparation of a comprehensive financial and operational restructuring. NRG Energy and its advisors have been meeting regularly to discuss restructuring issues with an ad hoc committee of its bondholders and a steering committee of its bank lenders (the Ad Hoc Creditors Committees). To aid in the design and implementation of a restructuring plan, in the fall of 2002, NRG Energy prepared a comprehensive business plan and forecast. Anticipating that NRG Energys creditors will own all or substantially all of NRG Energys equity interests after implementing the restructuring plan, any plans and efforts to integrate NRG Energys business operations with those of Xcel Energy were terminated. Using commodity, emission and capacity prices provided by an independent energy consulting firm to develop forecasted cash flow information, management concluded that the forecasted free cash flow available to NRG Energy after servicing project level obligations will be insufficient to service recourse debt obligations at the NRG Energy corporate level. Based on that forecast, it is anticipated that NRG Energy will remain in default of the various corporate level debt obligations discussed more fully herein. Based on this information and in consultation with Xcel Energy and its financial and legal restructuring advisors, NRG Energy prepared a comprehensive financial restructuring plan. In November 2002, NRG Energy and Xcel Energy presented the plan to the Ad Hoc Creditors Committees. The restructuring plan has served as a basis for continuing negotiations between the Ad Hoc Creditors Committees, NRG Energy and Xcel Energy related to a consensual plan of reorganization for NRG Energy. Negotiations have progressed substantially since the initial plan was presented in November. If an agreement to a consensual plan of reorganization is negotiated and NRG Energy is unable to effectuate the restructuring through an exchange offer or other non bankruptcy mechanism, it is highly probable that such plan would be implemented through the commencement of a voluntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. There can be no assurance that NRG Energys creditors, including, but not limited to the Ad Hoc Committees, will agree to the terms of the consensual plan of reorganization currently being negotiated. In addition, there can be no guarantee that lenders will not seek to enforce their remedies under the various loan agreements, provided that any such attempted enforcement would be subject to the automatic stay and other relevant provisions of the bankruptcy code. The commencement of a voluntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding without a consensual plan of reorganization would increase the possibility of a prolonged bankruptcy proceeding. On November 22, 2002, five former NRG Energy executives filed an involuntary Chapter 11 petition against NRG Energy in U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Minnesota. Under provisions of federal law, NRG Energy has the full authority to continue to operate its business as if the involuntary petition had not been filed unless and until a court hearing on the validity of the involuntary petition is resolved adversely to NRG Energy. On December 16, 2002, NRG Energy responded to the involuntary petition, contesting the petitioners claims and filing a motion to dismiss the case. On February 19, 2003, NRG Energy announced that it had reached a settlement with the petitioners. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Minnesota will hear NRG Energys motion to approve the settlement and dismiss the involuntary petition. Two of NRG 43 Table of Contents Energys creditors have objected to the motion to dismiss. There can be no assurance that the court will dismiss the involuntary petition. The Bankruptcy Court has discretion in the review and approval of the settlement agreement. There is a risk that the Bankruptcy Court may, among other things, reject the settlement agreement or enter an order for relief under Chapter 11. On March 26, 2003, Xcel Energy announced that its board of directors had approved a tentative settlement agreement with holders of most of NRG Energys long term notes and the steering committee representing NRGs bank lenders. The settlement is subject to certain conditions, including the approval of at least a majority in dollar amount of the NRG Energy bank lenders and long term noteholders and definitive documentation. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be obtained. The terms of the settlement call for Xcel Energy to make payments to NRG Energy over the next 13 months totaling up to $752 million for the benefit of NRG Energys creditors in consideration for their waiver of any existing and potential claims against Xcel Energy. Under the settlement, Xcel Energy will make the following payments: (i) $350 million at or shortly following the consummation of a restructuring of NRG Energys debt. It is expected this payment would be made prior to year end 2003; (ii) $50 million on January 1, 2004. At Xcel Energys option, it may fill this requirement with either cash or Xcel Energy common stock or any combination thereof; and (iii) $352 million in April 2004. Cash Flows Historically, NRG Energy and its subsidiaries have obtained cash from operations, issuance of debt and equity securities, borrowings under credit facilities, capital contributions from Xcel Energy, reimbursement by Xcel Energy of tax benefits pursuant to a tax sharing agreement and proceeds from non recourse project financings. NRG Energy has used these funds to finance operations, service debt obligations, fund the acquisition, development and construction of generation facilities, finance capital expenditures and meet other cash and liquidity needs. 2002 2001 2000 Net cash provided by operating activities (in thousands) $ 430,043 $ 276,014 $ 361,678 Net cash provided by operating activities increased during 2002 compared with 2001, primarily due to NRG Energys efforts to conserve cash by deferring the payment of interest and managing its cash flows more closely. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased during 2001 compared with 2000, primarily due to adverse changes to working capital and increased undistributed equity earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. These decreases to net cash were partially offset by increases in net income after non cash adjustments for depreciation and amortization in 2001 as compared to 2000. The adverse changes to working capital are primarily due to increases in inventory balances, accrued income taxes receivables and changes in other long term assets and liabilities, partially offset by a favorable change in other current liabilities. 2002 2001 2000 Net cash used in investing activities (in thousands) $ (1,681,467 ) $ (4,335,641 ) $ (2,204,148 ) Net cash used in investing activities decreased in 2002, compared with 2001, primarily as a result of NRG Energy terminating its acquisition program due to its financial difficulties and the receipt of cash upon the sale of assets during 2002. Net cash used in investing activities increased in 2001, compared with 2000, primarily due to additional acquisitions of electric generating facilities and increased capital expenditures and project investments. 2002 2001 2000 Net cash provided by financing activities (in thousands) $ 1,449,330 $ 4,153,546 $ 1,905,870 Net cash provided by financing activities during 2002 decreased, compared to 2001 due to constraints on NRG Energys ability to access the capital markets and the cancellation and termination of construction projects reducing the need for capital. Net cash provided by financing activities during 2001 increased compared to 2000 due to the issuance of debt and equity securities to finance asset acquisitions. 44 Table of Contents Short term borrowing as a source of short term funding is affected by access to reasonably priced capital markets. This varies based on financial performance and existing debt levels. If current debt levels are perceived to be at or higher than standard industry levels or those levels that can be sustained by current operating levels, access to reasonable short term borrowings could be limited. These factors are evaluated by credit rating agencies that review NRG Energy and its subsidiary operations on an ongoing basis. As discussed above, NRG Energys credit situation has been adversely affected by its credit ratings and is significantly limited in its access to short term funding. NRG Energys operating cash flows have been adversely affected by lower operating margins as a result of low power prices since mid 2001. Seasonal variations in demand and market volatility in prices are not unusual in the independent power sector, and NRG Energy does normally experience higher margins in peak summer periods and lower margins in non peak periods. NRG Energy has also incurred significant amounts of debt to finance its acquisitions in the past several years and the servicing of interest and principal repayments from such financing is largely dependent on domestic project cash flows. NRG Energys management has concluded that the forecasted free cash flow available to NRG after servicing project level obligations will be insufficient to service recourse debt obligations at NRG Energy. For additional information on NRG Energys short term and long term borrowing arrangements, see Item 15 Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Prospective Capital Requirements Working Capital. As of February 28, 2003, NRG Energy had cash in the following amounts: Location and Availability Amount Unrestricted cash at NRG Energy $ 394.3 million Restricted cash at U.S. subsidiaries $ 249.5 million Restricted cash at Non U.S. subsidiaries $ 17.1 million Cash on deposit with vendors and suppliers $ 40.8 million Total $ 701.7 million NRG Energy anticipates that these cash resources, in addition to operating cash flows and net proceeds from asset sales, will be adequate to meet its corporate operating and capital expenditure needs going forward. However, NRG Energy does not anticipate having any cash available in 2003 to meet debt service on its corporate level notes and loans. NRG Energy is in negotiations with certain lenders who are considering making credit available to NRG Energy and or its subsidiaries through a debtor in possession facility in the event NRG Energy and or its subsidiaries becomes a debtor under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Other than a potential debtor in possession facility, or entering into a negotiated recapitalization of its debt obligations, NRG Energy does not contemplate access to any new financing in 2003. Capital Expenditures. NRG Energys management forecasts capital expenditures, which includes refurbishments and environmental compliance, to total approximately $475 million to $525 million in the years 2003 through 2007. NRG Energy anticipates funding its ongoing capital requirements through committed debt facilities, operating cash flows, and existing cash. NRG Energys capital expenditure program is subject to continuing review and modification. The timing and actual amount of expenditures may differ significantly based upon plant operating history, unexpected plant outages, changes in the regulatory environment, the availability of cash and restructuring efforts. Project Finance. Substantially all of NRG Energys operations are conducted by project subsidiaries and project affiliates. NRG Energys cash flow and ability to service corporate level indebtedness when due is dependent upon receipt of cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from NRG Energys projects and other subsidiaries. NRG Energy has generally financed the acquisition and development of its projects under financing arrangements to be repaid solely from each of its projects cash flows, which are typically secured by the plants physical assets and NRG Energys equity interests in the project company. In August 2002, NRG Energy suspended substantially all of its acquisition and development activities indefinitely, pending a 45 Table of Contents comprehensive restructuring of NRG Energy. The debt agreements of NRG Energys subsidiaries and project affiliates generally restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to NRG Energy. As of December 31, 2002, Loy Yang, Energy Center Kladno, LSP Energy (Batesville), NRG South Central, and NRG Northeast Generating do not currently meet the minimum debt service coverage ratios required for these projects to make payments to NRG Energy. In addition, NRG Energys subsidiaries, including LSP Kendall, NRG McClain, NRG Mid Atlantic, NRG South Central and NRG Northeast Generating are in default on their various debt instruments, resulting in dividend payment restrictions. Off Balance Sheet Items As of December 31, 2002, NRG Energy does not have any significant relationships with structured finance or special purpose entities that provide liquidity, financing or incremental market risk or credit risk. In March 2000, an NRG Energy sponsored non consolidated pass through trust issued $250 million of 8.70% certificates due March 15, 2005. Each certificate represents a fractional undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the trust. Interest is payable on the certificates semi annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year through 2005. The sole assets of the trust consist of 160 million principal amount 7.97% Reset Senior Notes due March 15, 2020 issued by NRG Energy. Interest is payable semi annually on the Reset Senior Notes on March 15 and September 15 through March 15, 2005, and then at intervals and interest rates established in a remarketing process. If the Reset Senior Notes are not remarketed on March 15, 2005, they must be mandatorily redeemed by NRG Energy on such date. NRG Energy has numerous investments of generally less then 50% interests in energy and energy related entities that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting as disclosed in Item 15 Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. NRG Energys pro rata share of non recourse debt held by unconsolidated affiliates was approximately $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2002. In the normal course of business NRG Energy may be asked to loan funds to these entities on both a long and short term basis. Such transactions are generally accounted for as accounts payables and receivables to/from affiliates and notes receivables from affiliates and if appropriate, bear market based interest rates. For additional information regarding amounts accounted for as notes receivables to affiliates see Item 15 Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments NRG Energy has a variety of contractual obligations and other commercial commitments that represent prospective cash requirements in addition to its capital expenditure programs. The following is a summarized table of contractual obligations. See additional discussion in Item 15 Notes 13, 14 and 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Payments Due by Period as of December 31, 2002 After Contractual Cash Obligations Total Short Term 1 3 Years 4 5 Years 5 Years (In thousands) Long term debt $ 8,385,867 $ 7,193,237 $ 147,162 $ 145,761 $ 899,707 Capital lease obligations 574,531 26,855 53,338 53,012 441,326 Operating leases 80,556 11,514 21,067 18,030 29,945 Total contractual cash obligations $ 9,040,954 $ 7,231,606 $ 221,567 $ 216,803 $ 1,370,978 46 Table of Contents Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period as of December 31, 2002 Total Amounts After Other Commercial Commitments Committed Short Term 1 3 Years 4 5 Years 5 Years (In thousands) Lines of credit $ 1,000,000 $ 1,000,000 Stand by letters of credit 110,677 110,677 Guarantees 1,587,022 992,280 94,467 210,941 289,334 Total commercial commitments $ 2,697,699 $ 2,102,957 $ 94,467 $ 210,941 $ 289,334 Interdependent Relationships NRG Energy does not have any significant interdependent relationships. Since it is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy there are certain related party transactions that take place in the normal course of business. For additional information regarding NRG Energys related party transactions see Item 15 Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions. Environmental Matters Domestic Environmental Regulatory Matters The construction and operation of power projects are subject to stringent environmental and safety protection and land use laws and regulation in the United States. These laws and regulations generally require lengthy and complex processes to obtain licenses, permits and approvals from federal, state and local agencies. If such laws and regulations become more stringent and NRG Energys facilities are not exempted from coverage, NRG Energy could be required to make extensive modifications to further reduce potential environmental impacts. Also, NRG Energy could be held responsible under environmental and safety laws for the cleanup of pollutant releases at its facilities or at off site locations where it has sent wastes. NRG Energy and its subsidiaries strive to exceed the standards of compliance with applicable environmental and safety regulations. Nonetheless, NRG Energy expects that future liability under or compliance with environmental and safety requirements could have a material effect on its operations or competitive position. It is not possible at this time to determine when or to what extent additional facilities or modifications of existing or planned facilities will be required as a result of possible changes to environmental and safety regulations, regulator interpretations or enforcement policies. In general, the effect of future laws or regulations is expected to require the addition of pollution control equipment or the imposition of restrictions on NRG Energys operations. NRG Energy establishes accruals where reasonable estimates of probable environmental and safety liabilities are possible. NRG Energy adjusts the accruals when new remediation responsibilities are discovered and probable costs become estimable, or when current remediation estimates are adjusted to reflect new information. For more information on Environmental Matters see Item 15 Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. U.S. Federal Regulatory Initiatives Several federal regulatory and legislative initiatives are being undertaken in the U.S. to further limit and control pollutant emissions from fossil fuel fired combustion units. Although the exact impact of these initiatives is not known at this time, all of NRG Energys power plants will be affected in some manner by the expected changes in federal environmental laws and regulations. In Congress, legislation has been proposed that would impose annual caps on U.S. power plant emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2), mercury, and, in some instances, carbon dioxide (CO2). NRG Energy is currently participating in the debates around such legislative proposals as a member of the Electric Power Supply Association. Federal legislation relating to NOx, SO2 and mercury is likely in the next two years. The prospects for passage of the legislation 47 Table of Contents relating to CO2 is more uncertain. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) is scheduled to propose in December 2003 and finalize in December 2004 rules governing mercury emissions from power plants. In support of this schedule, USEPA and critical stakeholders, some of which are aligned with NRG Energys interests, are presently conducting a thorough review of existing power plant mercury emissions data. Since these mercury rules have not yet been proposed and legislation has not yet supplanted them, it is not possible for NRG Energy to determine the extent to which the rules will affect its domestic operations. USEPA has finalized federal rules governing ozone season NOx emissions across the eastern United States. These ozone season rules will be implemented in two phases. The first phase of restrictions will occur in the Ozone Transport Commission region during the 2003 and subsequent ozone seasons; all of NRG Energys existing, wholly owned generating units in the Northeast and Mid Atlantic regions are included in this part of the program. The second phase of NOx reductions will extend to states within the Ozone Transport Assessment Group (OTAG) region and restrict 2004 and subsequent ozone season NOx emissions in most states east of the Mississippi River. These rules require one NOx allowance to be held for each ton of NOx emitted from any fossil fuel fired stationary boiler, combustion turbine, or combined cycle system that (i) at any time on or after January 1, 1995, served a generator with a nameplate capacity greater than 25 MWe and sold any amount of electricity or (ii) has a maximum design heat input greater than 250 mmBtu/hr. NRG Energys facilities that are subject to this rule in the Northeast and Mid Atlantic Regions have been allocated NOx emissions allowances, but NRG Energy expects that those allowances may not be sufficient for the anticipated operation of these facilities. Where insufficient allowances exist, NRG Energy must purchase NOx allowances from sources holding excess allowances. The need to purchase these additional NOx allowances could have a material affect on NRG Energys operations in these regions. During the first quarter of 2002, USEPA proposed new rules governing cooling water intake structures at existing power facilities. These rules are scheduled to be finalized by February 16, 2004. The proposed rules specify certain location, design, construction, and capacity standards for cooling water intake structures at existing power plants using the largest amounts of cooling water. These rules will require implementation of the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impacts unless a facility shows that such standards would result in very high costs or little environmental benefit. The proposed rules would require NRG Energy facilities that withdraw water in amounts greater than 50 million gallons per day to submit with wastewater permit applications certain surveys, plans, operational measures, and restoration measures that combined would act to minimize adverse environmental impacts. These anticipated cooling water intake structure rules could have a material effect on NRG Energys operations. Other Federal initiatives that could affect NRG Energy and that would govern regional haze, fine particulate matter, and ozone are underway, but under extended compliance implementation timeframes ranging from 2009 and beyond. Regional U.S. Regulatory Initiatives West Coast Region The El Segundo and Long Beach Generating Stations are both regulated by the South Coast Air Quality Management Districts (SCAQMD) Regional Clean Air Incentives Market (RECLAIM) program. This program, which regulates NOx emissions in the Los Angeles area, was amended on May 11, 2001, and mandated major changes with respect to air emissions control at power generation facilities in southern California. New RECLAIM Rule 2009 requires that all existing power generation facilities meet Best Available Retrofit Control Technology (BARCT) for NOx emissions from all utility boilers by January 1, 2003, and for all peaking units by January 1, 2004. Under the new rule, existing power generation facilities were required to submit compliance plans by September 1, 2001, listing how each unit at the stations would meet BARCT by the deadlines. El Segundos compliance plan did not propose additional NOx controls to meet BARCT since Units 3 & 4 are already equipped with acceptable SCR technology (first installed on Unit 4 in 1995 and on Unit 3 in 2001). Further, NRG Energy is planning to decommission Units 1 & 2 so that it can build a new 621 MW combined cycle plant. SCAQMD approved the El Segundo Rule 2009 Compliance Plan on October 17, 2002, indicating that the SCRs on Units 3 & 4 meet BARCT and requiring 48 Table of Contents that Units 1 & 2 be retired on or before December 31, 2002. SCAQMD approved the Long Beach Generating Station Rule 2009 Compliance Plan on April 25, 2002, which proposed modifications to the Long Beach NOx control system by December 31, 2002, and specified a new NOx emission concentration limit of 16.6 parts per million. The Long Beach plant completed all control system modifications and demonstrated compliance with 16.6 parts per million limit before the December 31, 2002 deadline. Therefore, all Long Beach and El Segundo units have met the Rule 2009 BARCT requirement, and NRG Energy does not at this time anticipate additional material capital expenditures associated with the amended RECLAIM rules. Eastern Region Final rules implementing changes in air regulations in the states of Massachusetts and Connecticut were promulgated in 2000. The Connecticut rules required that existing facilities reduce their emissions of SO2 in two steps, the first of which took place on January 1, 2002. The second SO2 milestone will occur on January 1, 2003. The NRG Energy plants in Connecticut have operated in compliance with the first phase rules and are now operating in compliance with the second phase rules. Connecticuts rules governing emissions of NOx were also modified in 2000 to restrict the average, non ozone season NOx emission rate to 0.15 pound per million Btu heat input. NRG Energy plans to comply with the new NOx rules, in part, through selective firing of natural gas, use of selective non catalytic reduction (SNCR) technology presently installed at its Norwalk Harbor and Middletown Power Stations, improved combustion controls, use of emission reduction credits, and purchase of allowances. In 2002, the Connecticut legislature passed a law further tightening air emission standards by eliminating in state emissions credit trading subsequent to January 1, 2005 as a means of meeting Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) regulatory standards for SO2 emissions from older power plants. The termination of SO2 emissions trading in Connecticut by 2005 could have a material effect on NRG Energys operations in that state. The new Massachusetts rules set forth schedules under which six existing coal fired power plants in state were required to meet stringent emission limits for NOx, SO2, mercury, and CO2. The state has reserved the issue of control of carbon monoxide and particulate matter emissions for future consideration. On February 25th, 2003, NRG Energy received from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (MADEP) a permit to install natural gas reburn technology to meet the NOx and SO2 limits specified in the new rule at its Somerset Generating Station. NRG Energy is projected to incur total capital expenditures of approximately $5.4 million to implement the reburn technology at the Somerset Station, of which about $3.0 million remains to be spent during 2003. MADEP is evaluating the technological and economic feasibility of controlling and eliminating emissions of mercury from the combustion of solid fossil fuel in Massachusetts. Within six months of completing the feasibility evaluation, MADEP must propose emission standards for mercury, with a proposed compliance date of October 1, 2006. NRG Energy believes it can comply with any future mercury reductions required by the rules through achieving early reductions of mercury via early implementation of the natural gas reburn technology and with its January 1, 2010 commitment to shutdown Somerset Stations existing boiler. NRG Energy is still considering its options with respect to how it will address MADEPs CO2 emission standards. Such options include using early reductions of CO2 achieved through early implementation of the natural gas reburn technology or by filing a legal challenge with respect to MADEPs legal authority to regulate CO2 emissions. New York proposed rules reducing allowable SO2 and NOx emissions from large, fossil fuel fired combustion units in New York State on February 20, 2002 (6NYCRR Part 237: Acid Deposition Reduction NOx Budget Trading Program and Part 238: Acid Deposition Reduction SO2 Budget Trading Program). As proposed, these rules would affect every NRG Energy generator in state. NRG Energy provided testimony on the proposed rules in public hearings conducted in Buffalo and Albany on April 4, 2002, and May 20, 2002, respectively. In addition, NRG Energy filed written comments on the proposed rules on May 28, 2002. NRG Energys comments focused on (i) material changes in electric markets that had occurred since the conduct of studies upon which the Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) had based their proposal, (ii) the need to increase the quantity of upwind allowances for use in offsetting in state emissions, and (iii) the disproportionately minimal reduction in in state acid deposition that could be expected from the significant emissions reductions proposed. NRG Energy has received a pre publication version of the rules that will be 49 Table of Contents considered by the New York State DECs Environmental Board at the Boards March 26, 2003 meeting. Indications are that the rules will provide for increased use of upwind SO2 and NOx reductions and will continue to allow for the use of early emission reductions. NRG Energys strategy for complying with the new rules will be to generate early reductions of SO2 and NOx associated with fuel switching and use such reductions to extend the timeframe for implementing technological controls, which could include the addition of flue gas desulfurization (FGD) and selective catalytic reduction (SCR) equipment. NRG Energy anticipates that it could incur capital expenditures up to $300 million in the 2008 through 2012 timeframe to implement upgrades and modifications to its plants in New York to meet new state and federal regulatory requirements if NRG cannot address such requirements through use of compliant fuels and or plantwide applicability limits. While no material impending rule changes affecting NRG Energys existing facilities have been formally proposed. Delaware is considering in 2003 whether or not to develop Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards for mercury. In support of this effort, the State is beginning to test large combustion sources for mercury emissions. In addition, the State is establishing Total Maximum Daily Loading (TMDL) standards for mercury in its watersheds. NRG is participating as a stakeholder in such policy making efforts along with the Governors Energy Task Force, legislators and the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control (DNREC) to ensure that any rules promulgated adequately consider impacts on NRGs in state sources. Central Region The Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality has promulgated State Implementation Plan revisions to bring the Baton Rouge ozone non attainment area into compliance with National Ambient Air Quality Standards. NRG Energy participated in development of the revisions, which require the reduction of NOx emissions at the gas fired Big Cajun I Power Station and coal fired Big Cajun II Power Station to 0.1 pounds NOx per million Btu heat input and 0.21 pounds NOx per million Btu heat input, respectively. This revision of the Louisiana air rules would appear to constitute a change in law covered by agreement between Louisiana Generating LLC and the electric cooperatives allowing the costs of added combustion controls to be passed through to the cooperatives. The capital cost of combustion controls required at the Big Cajun II Generating Station to meet the States NOx regulations will total about $10.0 million each for Units 1 & 2. Unit 3 has already made such changes. Domestic Site Remediation Matters Under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of any facility, including an electric generating facility, may be required to investigate and remediate releases or threatened releases of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products located at the facility, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and remediation costs incurred by the party in connection with any releases or threatened releases. These laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of or caused the presence of the hazardous substances, and courts have interpreted liability under such laws to be strict (without fault) and joint and several. The cost of investigation, remediation or removal of any hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products could be substantial. Although NRG Energy has been involved in on site contamination matters, to date, NRG Energy has not been named as a potentially responsible party with respect to any off site waste disposal matter. West Coast Region The Asset Purchase Agreements for the Long Beach, El Segundo, Encina, and San Diego gas turbine generating facilities provide that Southern California Edison and San Diego Gas & Electric retain liability and indemnify NRG Energy for existing soil and groundwater contamination that exceeds remedial thresholds in place at the time of closing. NRG Energy and its business partner conducted Phase I and Phase II Environmental Site Assessments at each of these sites for purposes of identifying such existing contamination 50 Table of Contents and provided the results to the sellers. Southern California Edison and San Diego Gas & Electric have agreed to address contamination identified by these studies and are undertaking corrective action at the Encina and San Diego gas turbine generating sites. Spills and releases of various substances have occurred at these sites since establishing the historical baseline, all but one of which has been remediated in accordance with existing laws. A recent oil leak in underground piping at the El Segundo Generating Station contaminated soils adjacent to and underneath the Unit 1 powerhouse. NRG Energy excavated and disposed of contaminated soils that could be removed in accordance with existing laws. NRG Energy filed a request with the Regional Water Quality Control Board to allow contaminated soils to remain underneath the building foundation until the building is demolished. Eastern Region Coal ash is produced as a by product of coal combustion at the Dunkirk, Huntley, and Somerset Generating Stations. NRG Energy attempts to direct its coal ash to beneficial uses. Even so, significant amounts of ash are landfilled at on and off site locations. At Dunkirk and Huntley, ash is disposed at landfills owned and operated by NRG Energy. No material liabilities outside the costs associated with closure, post closure care and monitoring are expected at these facilities. NRG Energy maintains financial assurance to cover costs associated with closure, post closure care and monitoring activities. In the past, NRG Energy has provided financial assurance via financial test and corporate guarantee. NRG Energy must re establish financial assurance via an instrument requiring complete collateralization of closure and post closure related costs, currently estimated at approximately $5.8 million. NRG Energy is required to provide an alternative instrument to provide such financial assurance on or before April 30, 2003. NRG must also maintain financial assurance for closing interim status RCRA facilities at the Devon, Middletown, Montville and Norwalk Harbor Generating Stations. Previously, NRG Energy has provided financial assurance via financial test. NRG Energy must re establish financial assurance via an instrument requiring complete collateralization of closure and post closure related costs. NRG Energy is required to provide an alternative instrument to provide such financial assurance on or before April 30, 2003. Historical clean up liabilities were inherited as a part of acquiring the Somerset, Devon, Middletown, Montville, Norwalk Harbor, Arthur Kill and Astoria Generating Stations. NRG Energy has recently satisfied clean up obligations associated with the Ledge Road property (inherited as part of the Somerset acquisition). Site contamination liabilities arising under the Connecticut Transfer Act at the Devon, Middletown, Montville and Norwalk Harbor Stations have been identified and are currently being refined as part of on going site investigations. NRG Energy does not expect to incur material costs associated with completing the investigations at these Stations or future work to cover and monitor landfill areas pursuant to the Connecticut requirements. Remedial liabilities at the Arthur Kill Generating Station have been established in discussions between NRG Energy and the New York State DEC and are expected to cost on the order of $1.0 million; for contingency purposes, NRG Energy has budgeted $2 million to complete its Arthur Kill remedial obligations. Remedial investigations are on going at the Astoria Generating Station. At this time, NRG Energys long term cleanup liability at this site is not expected to exceed $2.5 million; for contingency purposes, NRG Energy has budgeted $4.3 million to complete its Astoria remedial obligations. NRG Energy is responsible for the costs associated with closure, post closure care and monitoring of the ash landfill owned and operated by NRG Energy on the site of the Indian River Generating Station. No material liabilities outside such costs are expected. Financial assurance to provide for closure and post closure related costs is currently maintained by a trust fund collateralized in the amount of approximately $6.6 million. Central Region Liabilities associated with closure, post closure care and monitoring of the ash ponds owned and operated on site at the Big Cajun II Generating Station are addressed through the use of a trust fund maintained by NRG Energy (one of the instruments allowed by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality for providing financial assurance for expenses associated with closure and post closure care of the ponds). The 51 Table of Contents current value of the trust fund is approximately $4.5 million and NRG Energy is making annual payments to the fund in the amount of about $116,000. International Environmental Matters Most of the foreign countries in which NRG Energy owns or may acquire or develop independent power projects have environmental and safety laws or regulations relating to the ownership or operation of electric power generation facilities. These laws and regulations are typically significant for independent power producers because they are still changing and evolving. In particular, NRG Energys international power generation facilities will likely be affected by evolving emissions limitations and operational requirements imposed by the Kyoto Protocol and country based restrictions pertaining to global climate change concerns. NRG Energy retains appropriate advisors in foreign countries and seeks to design its international development and acquisition strategy to comply with and take advantage of opportunities presented by each countrys environmental and safety laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that changes in such laws or regulations will not adversely effect NRG Energys international operations. Australia The most significant environmental issue for the Australian NRG businesses is the response to global climate change. Climate change issues are considered a long term issue (e.g., 2010 and beyond), and the Federal Governments response to date has included a number of initiatives, all of which have had no impact or minimal impact on NRG Energys current operations. The Australian Government has stated that Australia will achieve its Kyoto target of 108% of 1990 levels for the 2008 to 2012 reporting period but that it will not ratify the Kyoto Protocol. Each Australian State Government is considering implementing a number of climate change initiatives that will vary considerably state to state. NRG Energy currently expects that climate change initiatives will not have a material impact on NRG Energys businesses in Australia. MIBRAG/ Schkopau, Germany CO2 emissions trading is supposed to start in 2005, but NRG Energy cannot quantify the possible effect of this trading on its operations in Germany at this time because implementation details are still being negotiated among businesses, lobbyists, and the regulatory authorities. Fundamental issues such as grandfathering existing plants or availability of credits for plants previously closed or upgraded are still unsettled. Given the uncertainty regarding the emissions trading program, NRG Energy cannot estimate at this time the possible effect such requirements would have on its future operations. Proposed changes in sections 13 and 17 of the German Emission Control Directive are expected to tighten emission limits for plants firing conventional fuels, and for those co firing waste products. As with CO2 emissions trading, these changes are currently being vigorously debated with issues such as exemptions based on size or purpose of plants and grandfathering remaining undecided. The European Unions Groundwater Directive and Mine Wastewater Management Directive are in the rule making stage with the final outcome still under debate. Given the uncertainty regarding the possible outcome of the on going debate on these directives, NRG Energy cannot quantify at this time the possible effect such requirements would have on its future coal mining operations in Germany. UK NRG Energys Enfield Generating Station uses state of the art combined cycle technology and is set to fire natural gas as its primary fuel. Currently the facility complies with all conditions in its environmental permits and its operation is not under challenge by any governmental or non governmental parties. India NRG Energys Kondapalli Generating Station is in compliance with its environmental permits, is not being challenged by any parties on environmental grounds, has incurred no fines or penalties associated with 52 Table of Contents violations of operating conditions, and there are no capital costs anticipated for maintaining the Station in compliance with existing consents or rules. To NRG Energys knowledge, no regulatory proposals that would materially affect the Stations operation are pending or proposed. Recent Accounting Developments In June 2001, FASB issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. This statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. SFAS No. 143 requires an entity to recognize the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. Upon initial recognition of a liability for an asset retirement obligation, an entity shall capitalize an asset retirement cost by increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset by the same amount as the liability. SFAS No. 143 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. NRG Energy has not completed its analysis of SFAS No. 143. NRG Energy will complete its analysis in 2003 and in accordance with the accounting guidance, be required to restate prior quarterly statements to the extent the impact of the adoption is material. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections, that supersedes previous guidance for the reporting of gains and losses from extinguishment of debt and accounting for leases, among other things. SFAS No. 145 requires that only gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt that meet the requirements for classification as Extraordinary Items, as prescribed in Accounting Practices Board Opinion No. 30, should be disclosed as such in the financial statements. Previous guidance required all gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt to be classified as Extraordinary Items. This portion of SFAS No. 145 is effective for fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002, with restatement of prior periods required. In addition, SFAS No. 145 amends SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, as it relates to accounting by a lessee for certain lease modifications. Under SFAS No. 13, if a capital lease is modified in such a way that the change gives rise to a new agreement classified as an operating lease, the assets and obligation are removed, a gain or loss is recognized and the new lease is accounted for as an operating lease. Under SFAS No. 145, capital leases that are modified so the resulting lease agreement is classified as an operating lease are to be accounted for under the sale leaseback provisions of SFAS No. 98, Accounting for Leases. These provisions of SFAS No. 145 are effective for transactions occurring after May 15, 2002. SFAS No. 145 will be applied as required. Adoption of SFAS No. 145 is not expected to have a material impact on NRG Energy. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, (SFAS No. 146), SFAS No. 146 addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies EITF Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). SFAS No. 146 applies to costs associated with an exit activity that does not involve an entity newly acquired in a business combination or with a disposal activity covered by SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. The provisions of SFAS No. 146 are effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002, with early application encouraged. SFAS No. 146 will be applied as required. In December 2002, FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123. This Statement amends FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. In addition, this Statement amends the disclosure requirements of Statement 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. The provisions of 53 Table of Contents SFAS No. 148 are effective for financial statements for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002 and for interim periods beginning after December 15, 2002. In November 2002, The FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others. The initial recognition and initial measurement provisions of this interpretation are applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002, irrespective of the guarantors fiscal year end. The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. The interpretation addresses the disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial statements about its obligations under guarantees. The interpretation also clarifies the requirements related to the recognition of a liability by a guarantor at the inception of the guarantee for the obligations the guarantor has undertaken in issuing the guarantee. In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN No. 46). FIN No. 46 requires an enterprises consolidated financial statements to include subsidiaries in which the enterprise has a controlling interest. Historically, that requirement has been applied to subsidiaries in which an enterprise has a majority voting interest, but in many circumstances the enterprises consolidated financial statements do not include the consolidation of variable interest entities with which it has similar relationships but no majority voting interest. Under FIN No. 46 the voting interest approach is not effective in identifying controlling financial interest. The new rule requires that for entities to be consolidated that those assets be initially recorded at their carrying amounts at the date the requirements of the new rule first apply. If determining carrying amounts as required is impractical, then the assets are to be measured at fair value the first date the new rule applies. Any difference between the net amount of any previously recognized interest in the newly consolidated entity should be recognized as the cumulative effect of an accounting change. FIN No. 46 becomes effective in the third quarter of 2003. NRG Energy is currently evaluating this standard and is presently unable to determine its impact. California NRG Energys California generation assets include a 50% interest in the West Coast Power partnership with Dynegy. In March 2001, the California Power Exchange (PX) filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, and in April 2001, the Pacific Gas & Electric Company (PG&E) also filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11. PG&Es filing delayed collection of receivables owed to the Crockett facility. In September 2001, PG&E filed a proposed plan of reorganization. Under the terms of the proposed plan, which is subject to challenge by interested parties, unsecured creditors such as NRG Energys California affiliates would receive 60% of the amounts owed upon approval of the plan. The remaining 40% would be paid in negotiable debt with terms from 10 to 30 years. The California PXs ability to repay its debt is dependent on the extent to which it receives payments from PG&E and Southern California Edison Company (SCE). During the fourth quarter of 2002, West Coast Power recorded an approximately $117.0 million charge to write off the remaining amounts owed to it by the California PX and ISO. NRG Energys share of this charge was approximately $58.5 million (pre tax). Certain Trading Activities The tables below disclose the trading activities that include non exchange traded contracts accounted for at fair value. Specifically, these tables disaggregate realized and unrealized changes in fair value; identifies changes in fair value attributable to changes in valuation techniques; disaggregates estimated fair values at December 31, 2002 based on whether fair values are determined by quoted market prices or more subjective means; and indicates the maturities of contracts at December 31, 2002. 54 Table of Contents Trading Activity (Gains/(Losses), in thousands) Fair Value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the period $ 72,236 Contracts realized or otherwise settled during the period (119,061 ) Other changes in fair values 77,465 Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period $ 30,640 Sources of Fair Value (Gains/(Losses), in thousands) Fair Value of Contracts at Period End Maturity Maturity Total Less than Maturity Maturity in excess Fair 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years of 5 Years Value Prices actively quoted $ 5,825 $ (7,558 ) $ (1,908 ) $ (3,641 ) Prices based on models & other valuation methods $ 61,300 $ 52,560 $ (22,977 ) $ (56,602 ) $ 34,281 $ 67,125 $ 45,002 $ (22,977 ) $ (58,510 ) $ 30,640 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk NRG Energy uses a variety of financial instruments to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on its international project cash flows, interest rates on its cost of borrowing and energy and energy related commodities prices. Currency Exchange Risk NRG Energy is also subject to currency risks associated with foreign denominated distributions from international investments. In the normal course of business, NRG Energy receives distributions denominated in Australian Dollar, British Pound and Euro. Upon completion of the Itiquira plant in Brazil, NRG Energy is also subject to currency risk with the Brazilian Real. NRG Energy engages in a strategy of hedging foreign denominated cash flows through a program of matching currency inflows and outflows, and to the extent required, fixing the U.S. Dollar equivalent of net foreign denominated distributions with currency forward and swap agreements with highly credit worthy financial institutions. NRG Energy has 160 million in long term debt due 2020 which is subject to market fluctuations. As of December 31, 2002, NRG Energy had two foreign currency exchange contracts with notional amounts of $3.0 million. If the contracts had been discontinued on December 31, 2002, NRG Energy would have owed the counter parties approximately $0.3 million. Interest Rate Risk NRG Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates when entering into variable rate debt obligations to fund certain power projects. Exposure to interest rate fluctuations may be mitigated by entering into derivative instruments known as interest rate swaps, caps, collars and put or call options. These contracts reduce exposure to interest rate volatility and result in primarily fixed rate debt obligations when taking into account the combination of the variable rate debt and the interest rate derivative instrument. NRG Energys risk management policy allows the company to reduce interest rate exposure from variable rate debt obligations. During 2002, as a result of the various defaults under certain loan agreements, NRG Energys counter parties have terminated interest rate swaps with NRG Energy, Brazos Valley LP and NRG Finance Company I LLC. Until NRG Energy successfully restructures outstanding debt and returns to credit quality, NRG Energy will not seek to manage interest rate risk through the use of financial derivatives. 55 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2002, NRG Energy had various interest rate swap agreements with notional amounts totaling approximately $1.7 billion. If the swaps had been discontinued on December 31, 2002, NRG Energy would have owed the counter parties approximately $41.0 million. Based on the investment grade rating of the counter parties, NRG Energy believes that its exposure to credit risk due to nonperformance by the counter parties to its hedging contracts is insignificant. NRG Energy and its subsidiaries have both long and short term debt instruments that subject it to the risk of loss associated with movements in market interest rates. As of December 31, 2002, a 100 basis point change in the benchmark rate on NRG Energys variable rate debt would impact net income by approximately $39.3 million. As of December 31, 2001, a 100 basis point change in the benchmark rate on NRG Energys variable rate debt would have impacted net income by approximately $16.6 million. Commodity Price Risk NRG Energy is exposed to commodity price variability in electricity, emission allowances and natural gas, oil and coal used to meet fuel requirements. To manage earnings volatility associated with these commodity price risks, NRG Energy enters into financial instruments, which may take the form of fixed price, floating price or indexed sales or purchases, and options, such as puts, calls, basis transactions and swaps. NRG Energy utilizes an undiversified Value at Risk (VAR) model to estimate a maximum potential loss in the fair value of its commodity portfolio including generation assets, load obligations and bilateral physical and financial transactions. The key assumptions for the NRG Energy VAR model include (1) a lognormal distribution of price returns (2) three day holding period and (3) a 95% confidence interval. The volatility estimate is based on the implied volatility for at the money call options. This model encompasses the following generating regions: Entergy, NEPOOL, NYPP, PJM, WSCC, SPP and Main. The estimated maximum potential three day loss in fair value of its commodity portfolio, calculated using the VAR model is as follows: (In millions) Year end December 31, 2002 $ 118.6 Average 76.2 High 124.4 Low 42.0 Year end December 31, 2001 71.7 Average 78.8 High 126.6 Low 58.6 Year end December 31, 2000 116.0 Average 80.0 High 125.0 Low 50.0 NRG Power Marketing has risk management policies in place to measure and limit market and credit risk associated with NRGs power marketing activities. These policies do not permit speculative or directional trading. An independent department within NRG Power Marketing is responsible for the enforcement of such policies. NRG Energy is currently in the process of reviewing and revising these policies to reflect changes in industry dynamics and the NRG Energy reorganization. Credit Risk NRG Energy is exposed to credit risk in its risk management activities. Credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a counter party of its contractual obligations. NRG Energy actively manages its counter party credit risk. NRG Energy has an established credit policy in place to minimize 56 Table of Contents overall credit risk. Important elements of this policy include ongoing financial reviews of all counter parties, established credit limits, as well as monitoring, managing, and mitigating credit exposure. 
 
