FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20030723161749.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
     In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Release No. 33-8216, the following information, which is intended to be furnished under Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," is instead being furnished under Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
     On July 23, 2003, QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2003. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents financial information excluding the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, which would otherwise be required by GAAP. The Company presents such non-GAAP information to facilitate evaluation by management, investors and analysts of its ongoing core operating businesses, including QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT), QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) and QUALCOMM Wireless and Internet (QWI). QSI results relate to strategic investments for which the Company has exit strategies of varying durations. The Company's management believes that the information excluding QSI presents a more representative measure of the operating and liquidity performance of the Company because it excludes the effect of fluctuations in value of investments that are unrelated to the Company's operational performance. The financial information excluding QSI should be considered in addition, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM results and results excluding QSI are presented in the press release.
     The attached press release also presents cash flow information including marketable securities and excluding the QSI segment. The Company's management uses this non-GAAP presentation to analyze increases and decreases in certain of its liquid assets, comprised of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Management views certain marketable debt securities as liquid assets available to fund operations, which result from cash management strategies designed to increase yields. However, these instruments do not meet the definition of cash equivalents in accordance with Statement of Financial Standards No. 95, "Statement of Cash Flows" and must be excluded from the GAAP statements of cash flows. Since the GAAP statements of cash flows reconcile the Company's beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents balances, the purchases and sales of marketable securities are presented as inflows and outflows. For internal analysis of the Company's cash position, management does not view these transactions as inflows and outflows from the business, but as cash management transactions. If required, such investments could be settled relatively quickly as additional cash resources are needed. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is a helpful measure of the Company's liquidity. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM cash flow and cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities excluding the QSI segment are presented in the press release.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1 QUALCOMM Contact: Julie Cunningham Sr. Vice President, Investor Relations 1-(858) 658-4224 (ph) 1-(858) 651-9303 (fax) e-mail: juliec@qualcomm.com QUALCOMM ANNOUNCES THIRD QUARTER FISCAL 2003 RESULTS REVENUES $922 MILLION, EPS $0.23 REVENUES $891 MILLION, EPS $0.33 EXCLUDING QSI SEGMENT SAN DIEGO - July 23, 2003 - QUALCOMM Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) today announced its third quarter fiscal 2003 results ended June 29, 2003. Revenues were $922 million in the third fiscal quarter, up 20 percent year-over-year. Third quarter net income was $192 million, compared to a loss of $14 million year-over-year. Earnings per share were $0.23, compared to a loss of $0.02 per share year-over-year. Revenues excluding the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment were $891 million in the third fiscal quarter, up 24 percent year-over-year. Net income excluding the QSI segment was $267 million, up 38 percent year-over-year. Earnings per share excluding the QSI segment were $0.33, up 38 percent year-over-year. Detailed reconciliations between total QUALCOMM results and results excluding QSI are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on our Investor Relations web page at www.qualcomm.com. "Our business generates excellent positive cash flows at the same time revenues and earnings continue to grow. As a result, our Board approved a 40 percent increase in cash dividends to return value to our shareholders," said Dr. Irwin Mark Jacobs, chairman and CEO of QUALCOMM. "During the third quarter, we announced several new multimode chips and the industry-leading MSM7xxx family of chips to further strengthen our product road map and support our customers." "The China and India markets are gaining momentum, and we are encouraged by the performance of CDMA operators in the Americas, Japan and South Korea. During the quarter, Reliance Infocomm launched the first CDMA2000 1X nationwide commercial service in India, bringing advanced 3G wireless voice and data services to more than 250 cities. Reliance, Tata and the other CDMA operators in India totaled over three million subscribers at the end of June. China Unicom launched its prepaid service in several cities. VIVO in Brazil and China Unicom launched commercial - more -
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 2 of 18 BREW(TM) services, and BellSouth International has announced plans to commercially launch BREW in Latin America. Verizon Wireless in the U.S. reported impressive data revenues with its BREW-based Get It Now(sm) service. We believe these events, along with initial deployments of WCDMA in Japan and Europe, will set the stage for CDMA to capture a greater share of the total wireless market over the next year," Jacobs said. Research and development (R&D) expenses were $136 million, including $1 million for QSI, in the third fiscal quarter, up 15 percent year-over year. The increase in R&D expenses compared to the year ago quarter was primarily related to QCT new product development efforts. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $117 million, including $8 million for QSI, in the third fiscal quarter, down 23 percent year-over-year. The decrease in SG&A expense compared to the year ago quarter was primarily due to reduced expenses at Vesper, including the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. Our fiscal 2003 effective income tax rate is now estimated to be 45 percent, compared to 22 percent in fiscal 2002. The change in the estimated 2003 effective tax rate from 43 percent used in the second quarter of fiscal 2003 results in a 48 percent effective tax rate in the third quarter of fiscal 2003. Excluding the QSI segment, our fiscal 2003 effective tax rate estimate remains at 33 percent, compared to 35 percent in fiscal 2002. QUALCOMM STRATEGIC INITIATIVES The QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment includes our strategic investments and related income and expenses. Vesper losses before taxes were $20 million in the third fiscal quarter compared to $35 million in the year ago quarter. The balance of the net loss before taxes in QSI was $7 million for the third fiscal quarter compared to $250 million in the year ago quarter. The third quarter of fiscal 2003 net loss included asset impairment charges related to the valuation of our Australian wireless licenses, other-than-temporary losses on investments, our share of equity losses from our investment in Inquam and impairment of a note receivable. Significant offsetting gains included the realization of value of a portion of our Auction Discount Voucher transferred to two wireless operators, realized interest income from our Pegaso investment and realized gains on the sale of marketable securities.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 3 of 18 BUSINESS OUTLOOK The following statements are forward-looking and actual results may differ materially. Please see Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the end of this news release for a description of certain risk factors and QUALCOMM's annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a more complete description of risks. FOURTH QUARTER FISCAL 2003 - Based on the current business outlook, we anticipate that revenues excluding the QSI segment in the fourth fiscal quarter will increase by approximately 2-6 percent year-over-year. We anticipate that earnings per share excluding the QSI segment will be approximately $0.27-$0.29 in the fourth fiscal quarter, compared to $0.31 in the year ago quarter. This estimate assumes shipments of approximately 19-21 million MSM phone chips during the quarter. - Based on the current business outlook, we anticipate that total QUALCOMM revenues in the fourth quarter will increase by approximately 2-6 percent year-over-year. We anticipate that total QUALCOMM earnings per share will be approximately $0.19-$0.21 in the fourth fiscal quarter, including an estimated $0.08 loss per share attributed to the QSI segment, compared to $0.23 per share in the year ago quarter. Due to their nature, certain income and expense items such as realized gains or losses, gains or losses on derivatives, income related to the use of our FCC Auction Discount Voucher and asset impairments cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, the Company excludes such items from its business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if the Company incurs any such income or expense items. FISCAL 2003 - Based on the current business outlook, we anticipate that revenues excluding the QSI segment will grow by approximately 31-33 percent year-over-year and earnings per share excluding the QSI segment to be in the range of $1.40-$1.42 for fiscal 2003, up 43-45 percent year-over-year. We estimate the CDMA phone market to be 103-108 million units in calendar 2003, and we estimate a decrease of approximately five percent in average selling prices of CDMA phones for fiscal 2003, upon which royalties are calculated.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 4 of 18 - Based on the current business outlook, we anticipate that total QUALCOMM revenues will grow by approximately 30-31 percent year-over-year and total QUALCOMM earnings per share to be in the range of $0.84-$0.86 for fiscal 2003, up 91-95 percent year-over-year, including an estimated $0.56 loss per share attributed to the QSI segment. Due to their nature, certain income and expense items such as realized gains or losses, gains or losses on derivatives, income related to the use of our FCC Auction Discount Voucher and asset impairments cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, the Company excludes such items from its business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if the Company incurs any such income or expense items. CASH AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES QUALCOMM's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $5.0 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2003, compared to $4.4 billion on March 30, 2003, $3.9 billion on December 29, 2002 and $3.2 billion on September 29, 2002. We have invested $158 million in net stock repurchases and have paid $79 million in cash dividends since the inception of these programs in February 2003. QSI businesses required funding of $40 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2003, consistent with the second quarter of fiscal 2003. Collection of finance receivables from our Pegaso investment totaled $285 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2003. Detailed reconciliations between total QUALCOMM cash and cash equivalents and cash and cash equivalents including marketable securities and excluding the QSI segment are included at the end of this news release.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 5 of 18 RESULTS OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS THE FOLLOWING TABLES PRESENT SEGMENT INFORMATION (IN THOUSANDS): THIRD QUARTER - FISCAL YEAR 2003 SECOND QUARTER - FISCAL YEAR 2003 THIRD QUARTER - FISCAL YEAR 2002 NINE MONTHS - FISCAL YEAR 2003 NINE MONTHS - FISCAL YEAR 2002
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 6 of 18 (1) Reconciling items related to revenues consist primarily of other non-reportable segment revenues less intersegment eliminations. Reconciling items related to earnings before taxes consist primarily of corporate expenses, charges that are not allocated to the segments for management reporting purposes, unallocated net investment income, non-reportable segment results, interest expense and the elimination of intercompany profit. (2) Starting in fiscal 2003, the Company no longer records goodwill amortization, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards No. 142. In the third quarter of fiscal 2002, goodwill amortization and other adjustments included $61.5 million of amortization of goodwill, $4.0 million of amortization of intangible assets and $2.3 million of payroll expenses on stock option exercises, offset by $1.0 million of credits related to the reduction of reserves established in connection with the Globalstar business and $0.2 million of credits and $0.1 million of revenues related to the sale of the terrestrial-based CDMA wireless infrastructure business. In the first nine months of fiscal 2002, goodwill amortization and other adjustments included $183.8 million of amortization of goodwill, $10.1 million of amortization of intangible assets and $5.4 million of payroll expenses on stock option exercises, offset by $3.1 million of credits related to the reduction of reserves established in connection with the Globalstar business and $0.3 million of credits and $0.1 million of revenue related to the sale of the terrestrial-based CDMA wireless infrastructure business. With the adoption of FAS 142 in 2003 and given the immateriality of the other adjustments, the Company no longer makes these adjustments to its results excluding QSI in fiscal 2003. (3) The sum of the earnings per share amounts may not equal total earnings per share due to rounding. N/M - Not Meaningful BUSINESS SEGMENT HIGHLIGHTS QUALCOMM CDMA TECHNOLOGIES (QCT) - Shipped approximately 23 million MSM(TM) phone chips, 97 percent of which were 3G CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO, to customers worldwide during the third fiscal quarter, compared to approximately 28 million shipped in the second fiscal quarter and approximately 16 million units shipped in the year ago quarter. - Shipped CSM infrastructure chips for 3G CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO to support more than 2.2 million equivalent voice channels, compared to 1.5 million in the second fiscal quarter and approximately 4 million in the year ago quarter. Equivalent voice channels are provided rather than actual chip shipments because our CSM infrastructure chips currently support from eight to 32 voice channels per chip. - Shipped samples of the MSM6500(TM) chipset and system software. The MSM6500 chipset supports CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO and GSM/GPRS standards, allowing roaming between third-generation (3G) and second-generation (2G) networks. The MSM6500 solution will help accelerate the adoption of feature-rich multimedia applications on wireless consumer devices. - Announced several chipset and system software products, including: - MSM6025(TM) - a cost-effective solution to drive CDMA2000 1X adoption in new markets worldwide.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 7 of 18 - MSM6275(TM) - a high-performance solution delivering High Speed Downlink Packet Access (HSDPA), a next-generation feature of the WCDMA (UMTS) standard, as well as roaming on GSM and GPRS systems. - CSM6700(TM) and MSM6700(TM) - solutions supporting integrated voice and simultaneous high-speed packet data with support for CDMA2000 through Revision D and 1xEV-DO. - MSM7xxx family - a new generation of powerful dual-Central Processing Unit (CPU) single chip solutions to address the growing need for more cost-effective, high-performance solutions that drive full-featured third-generation (3G) multimedia handsets for consumers and high data rate devices for enterprise customers. QUALCOMM TECHNOLOGY LICENSING (QTL) - Signed a total of 14 CDMA license agreements during the third fiscal quarter, including ten new licenses and four amendments to existing license agreements. These royalty-bearing license agreements enable manufacturers to develop, make and sell products based on QUALCOMM's extensive CDMA patent portfolio. - Reported that licensees around the world are participating in the growing 3G CDMA market: - Thirty-five subscriber licensees reported sales of CDMA2000 1X products and nine subscriber licensees reported sales of WCDMA products through the third fiscal quarter. - Fifteen infrastructure licensees reported sales of CDMA2000 1X products and eight infrastructure licensees reported sales of WCDMA products through the third fiscal quarter. QUALCOMM WIRELESS & INTERNET GROUP (QWI) QUALCOMM INTERNET SERVICES (QIS) - Announced several operator developments, including U.S. Cellular's commercial launch of BREW-based service across its CDMA2000 network; KTF, a leading wireless operator in South Korea, renewed its contract to offer its wireless application download service based on the BREW platform; and China Unicom launched commercial BREW-enabled services in Guangdong and Shanghai.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 8 of 18 - Announced two additional operators have signed agreements to launch BREW-based wireless data services, BellSouth International in Latin America and Midwest Wireless in the U.S. BellSouth International plans to roll-out BREW-based services in nine BellSouth operating companies in Latin America. - Hosted the third annual BREW 2003 Developers Conference in San Diego, April 28-30, 2003. A number of announcements and demonstrations were made at the conference, including: - Verizon Wireless announced that in just six months consumers have downloaded 8.5 million Get It Nowsm games, ring tones, entertainment applications and more. Verizon Wireless also announced it has sold more than 3.2 million BREW-enabled handsets to date and expects to sell more than eight million of these handsets by the end of 2003. Verizon Wireless reported average incremental revenue per active Get It Nowsm user of more than $7.50 monthly, not including additional airtime revenues. - esmertec demonstrated the world's first implementation of MIDP (Mobile Information Device Profile) 2.0 functionality with its Mobile Foundation Java(TM) virtual machine (JVM) as an extension to the BREW platform. - Rocket Mobile demonstrated the industry's first Multimedia Messaging Services (MMS) message exchange between CDMA and GSM/GPRS networks with its RocketMMS(TM) client, and also unveiled RocketMMS Extension, which enables BREW developers to create applications that take advantage of MMS technologies. - Demonstrated with QUALCOMM's QChat push-to-talk (PTT) technology an initial call set-up performance of less than two seconds over CDMA2000 infrastructure and handsets between dormant mobiles. QUALCOMM's QChat solution uses voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) technologies to enable ubiquitous, efficient and virtually instantaneous PTT functionality on wireless devices based on CDMA2000 and other CDMA 3G networks. QUALCOMM WIRELESS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS(R) (QWBS) - Shipped approximately 8,400 OmniTRACS(R) units and related products in the third quarter, consistent with the second fiscal quarter. This brings the cumulative total to nearly 479,000 units shipped worldwide.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 9 of 18 - Introduced several enhancements to the FleetAdvisor(R) and TrackingAdvisor(R) software for private fleet customers. These enhancements enable improved productivity and customer service, reduced operational costs, and improved operational efficiency. - Commercially released GlobalTRACS(TM) equipment management system in April 2003; announced an agreement with ACME Lift Company to deploy GlobalTRACS on its fleet of large aerial work platforms. QUALCOMM STRATEGIC INITIATIVES (QSI) - Announced a commitment to invest up to $100 million, as part of our $500 million total commitment to QUALCOMM Ventures, in early- to mid-stage Chinese companies engaged in the development and commercialization of CDMA-based products, applications and services. CONFERENCE CALL QUALCOMM's third quarter fiscal 2003 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on July 23, 2003 beginning at 2:30 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time on the Company's web site at: www.qualcomm.com. This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at www.qualcomm.com immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on July 23, 2003 beginning at approximately 4:30 p.m. (PDT) through July 28, 2003 at 4:30 p.m. (PDT). To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 633-8284 and international callers may dial (402) 977-9140. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 21153017. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at www.qualcomm.com for two weeks following the live call. QUALCOMM Incorporated (www.qualcomm.com) is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on the Company's CDMA digital technology. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., QUALCOMM is included in the S&P 500
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 10 of 18 Index and is a 2003 FORTUNE 500(R) company traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market(R) under the ticker symbol QCOM. NOTE REGARDING USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The Company presents financial information excluding the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment to facilitate evaluation by management, investors and analysts of its ongoing core operating businesses, including QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT), QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) and QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet (QWI). QSI results relate to strategic investments for which the Company has exit strategies of varying durations. Management believes that the information excluding QSI presents a more representative measure of the operating and liquidity performance of the Company because it excludes the effect of fluctuations in value of investments that are unrelated to the Company's operational performance. The financial information excluding QSI should be considered in addition, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM results and results excluding QSI and between total QUALCOMM cash flow and cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities excluding the QSI segment are presented herein. NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: changing global economic conditions, particularly in the telecommunications and Internet-related industries and the resulting uncertainty in forecasting future results; timing and receipt of license fees and royalties; integrated circuit inventory and order levels; the Company's ability to execute additional 3G licenses; the scale-up, acceptance and operations of CDMA systems, including CDMA2000 1xEV-DO and systems in new markets such as China and India; the ability to sustain or improve operational efficiency and profitability; decreases in the rate of growth in CDMA-based wireless data and Internet access or the CDMA subscriber population; strategic investments, loans, acquisitions or divestitures the Company has or may pursue; the value realized on the sale of the Vesper Companies' business or assets; changes in the fair values of marketable securities and derivative instruments held; the development, deployment and
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 11 of 18 commercial acceptance of evolving CDMA technology standards; developments in current or future litigation; customer receivables and performance guarantees; component shortages; and international business activities, as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in the Company's SEC reports. ### QUALCOMM(R), QCT(R) QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions(R), OmniTRACS(R), MSM(TM), MSM6500(TM), MSM6025(TM), MSM6275(TM), CSM6700(TM), MSM6700(TM), FleetAdvisor(R), TrackingAdvisor(R), MPVc(R), GlobalTRACS(TM) and BREW(TM) are trademarks and/or service marks of QUALCOMM Incorporated. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 12 of 18 QUALCOMM INCORPORATED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS THIS SCHEDULE IS TO ASSIST THE READER IN RECONCILING FROM RESULTS EXCLUDING QSI TO TOTAL QUALCOMM RESULTS (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) (UNAUDITED) (a) Includes $29 million in interest income related to cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities, which are not part of the Company's strategic investment portfolio. (b) Includes $20 million loss, net of minority interest, of Vesper Holdings from March 1, 2003 through May 31, 2003 due to the Company's practice of consolidating foreign subsidiaries one month in arrears. (c) The estimated fiscal year 2003 effective tax rate for operations excluding QSI and total QUALCOMM are 33% and 45%, respectively. The change in the estimated 2003 effective tax rate for total QUALCOMM from 43% used in the second quarter of fiscal 2003 results in a 48% effective tax rate in the third quarter of fiscal 2003. (d) Includes $30 million interest income, $21 million other-than-temporary losses on investments, $21 million equity losses in investees and $18 million realized gains on marketable securities. (e) The sum of the earnings per share amounts may not equal total earnings per share due to rounding.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 13 of 18 QUALCOMM INCORPORATED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS THIS SCHEDULE IS TO ASSIST THE READER IN RECONCILING FROM RESULTS EXCLUDING QSI TO TOTAL QUALCOMM RESULTS (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) (UNAUDITED) (a) Includes $83 million in interest income related to cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities, which are not part of the Company's strategic investment portfolio. (b) Includes $212 million loss, net of minority interest, of Vesper Holdings from September 1, 2002 through May 31, 2003 due to the Company's practice of consolidating foreign subsidiaries one month in arrears. (c) The estimated fiscal year 2003 effective tax rate for operations excluding QSI and total QUALCOMM are 33% and 45%, respectively. (d) Includes $111 million other-than-temporary losses on investments, $110 million equity losses in investees, $45 million interest income, $37 million minority interest in loss of consolidated subsidiaries and $23 million realized gains on marketable securities. (e) The sum of the earnings per share amounts may not equal total earnings per share due to rounding.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 14 of 18 QUALCOMM INCORPORATED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES THIS SCHEDULE IS TO ASSIST THE READER IN RECONCILING CASH FLOWS FROM CASH CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES EXCLUDING QSI TO TOTAL QUALCOMM CASH FLOWS (IN THOUSANDS) (UNAUDITED) (a) See detail following the nine month cash flow schedule
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 15 of 18 QUALCOMM INCORPORATED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES THIS SCHEDULE IS TO ASSIST THE READER IN RECONCILING CASH FLOWS FROM CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES EXCLUDING QSI TO TOTAL QUALCOMM CASH FLOWS (IN THOUSANDS) (UNAUDITED) (b) See detail on the following page.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 16 of 18 QUALCOMM INCORPORATED SUPPLEMENTAL DETAIL TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES (IN THOUSANDS) (UNAUDITED) (c) The Company's management uses this non-GAAP presentation to analyze increases and decreases in certain of its liquid assets, comprised of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Management views certain marketable debt securities as liquid assets available to fund operations, which result from cash management strategies designed to increase yields. However, these instruments do not meet the definition of cash equivalents in accordance with Statement of Financial Standards No. 95, "Statement of Cash Flows" and must be excluded from the GAAP statements of cash flows. Since the GAAP statements of cash flows reconcile the Company's beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents balances, the purchases and sales of marketable securities are presented as inflows and outflows. For internal analysis of the Company's cash position, management does not view these transactions as inflows and outflows from the business, but as cash management transactions. If required, such investments could be settled relatively quickly as additional cash resources are needed. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is a helpful measure of the Company's liquidity.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 17 of 18 QUALCOMM INCORPORATED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) (UNAUDITED) (a) Includes the consolidated Vesper Holdings balance sheet at May 31, 2003. The Company consolidates foreign subsidiaries one month in arrears. (b) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not allocated to the Company's segments. A valuation allowance was provided on all net deferred tax assets of investments that are consolidated by QSI, including Vesper, because of uncertainty regarding their realization.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2003 Results Page 18 of 18 QUALCOMM INCORPORATED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) (UNAUDITED) (a) The diluted share base excludes the potential dilutive effect of common share equivalents related to outstanding stock options, calculated using the treasury stock method, as these shares are anti-dilutive.


