FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20040721170148.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Exhibits.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 21, 2004 QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended June 27, 2004. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents financial information excluding the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, which would otherwise be required by GAAP. The Company presents such non-GAAP information to facilitate evaluation by management, investors and analysts of its ongoing core operating businesses, including QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT), QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) and QUALCOMM Wireless and Internet (QWI). QSI results relate to strategic investments for which the Company has exit strategies of varying durations. The Company's management believes that the information excluding QSI presents a more representative measure of the operating and liquidity performance of the Company because it excludes the effect of fluctuations in the values of investments that are unrelated to the Company's operational performance. The financial information excluding QSI should be considered in addition, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM results and results excluding QSI are presented in the press release.
     The attached press release also presents cash flow information excluding QSI and including marketable securities. The Company's management uses this non-GAAP presentation to analyze increases and decreases in certain of its liquid assets, comprised of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Management views certain marketable securities as liquid assets available to fund operations, which result from cash management strategies designed to increase yields. However, these instruments do not meet the definition of cash equivalents in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95, "Statement of Cash Flows" and must be excluded from the GAAP statements of cash flows. Since the GAAP statements of cash flows reconcile the Company's beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents balances, the purchases and sales of marketable securities are presented as inflows and outflows. For internal analysis of the Company's cash position, management does not view these transactions as inflows and outflows from the business, but as cash management transactions. If required, such investments could be settled relatively quickly as additional cash resources are needed. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is a helpful measure of the Company's liquidity. The cash flow information excluding QSI and including marketable securities should be considered in addition, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM cash flow and cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities excluding the QSI segment are presented in the press release.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE QUALCOMM Contact: Bill Davidson Vice President, Investor Relations 1-(858) 658-4813 (ph) 1-(858) 651-9303 (fax) e-mail: ir@qualcomm.com QUALCOMM ANNOUNCES THIRD QUARTER FISCAL 2004 RESULTS REVENUES $1.3 BILLION, EPS $0.58 REVENUES $1.3 BILLION, EPS $0.57 EXCLUDING QSI SEGMENT SAN DIEGO - July 21, 2004 - QUALCOMM Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) today announced its results for its third fiscal quarter ended June 27, 2004. Revenues were $1.3 billion in the third quarter of fiscal 2004, up 50 percent year-over-year and 10 percent sequentially. The third quarter fiscal 2004 net income was $486 million, up 154 percent year-over-year and unchanged sequentially. The third quarter diluted earnings per share were $0.58, up 152 percent year-over-year and unchanged sequentially. The third quarter fiscal 2004 net income excluding the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment was $483 million, up 81 percent year-over-year and nine percent sequentially. The third quarter fiscal 2004 diluted earnings per share excluding the QSI segment were $0.57, up 73 percent year-over-year and eight percent sequentially. Detailed reconciliations between total QUALCOMM results and results excluding QSI are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on our Investor Relations web page at www.qualcomm.com. "The CDMA market continues to exhibit impressive growth as more subscribers are enjoying the benefits of third generation CDMA networks throughout the world," said Dr. Irwin Mark Jacobs, chairman and CEO of QUALCOMM. "Record demand for our chipsets and stronger than expected WCDMA sales are driving higher revenues and earnings. Twenty-one device manufacturers have selected QUALCOMM's chipsets and system software for their WCDMA deployments. This is the largest customer base in the industry to work with a single WCDMA wireless chipset provider. This quarter, WCDMA royalties accounted for 25 percent of total third party royalties. Based on new and expanding networks and attractive subscriber equipment entering the market, and with increasing competition among 3G operators, we expect WCDMA revenue to constitute a growing portion of our financial results." -more-
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 2 of 20 "3G CDMA continues its rapid expansion around the world, with over 117 million subscribers now utilizing this 3G service following a rapid transition from 2G. In South Korea, over 7 million subscribers have further upgraded to 1xEV-DO, demonstrating a large consumer market for broadband wireless data, especially multimedia downloads and advanced games. In the U. S., with first Verizon Wireless and more recently Sprint PCS deploying 1xEV-DO, and now AT&T Wireless launching WCDMA in four markets, we will soon have three nationwide operators as well as a number of regional operators offering third generation wireless services to the enterprise and consumer markets. The experience first gained with CDMA2000 advanced services and devices will benefit all 3G operators, ensuring the availability of attractive applications and devices and supporting evaluation of different marketing strategies. QUALCOMM continues to work closely with all 3G operators to support the successful rollout of CDMA worldwide. We continue a heavy investment in research and development to ensure the availability of the services and devices requested by operators, to reduce their costs, and to further increase the support provided by BREW." Revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2004 grew $449 million compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2003, including a $236 million increase in QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT) segment revenues and a $194 million increase in QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) segment revenues. QCT sold approximately 35 million Mobile Station Modem(TM) (MSM(TM)) phone chips in the third quarter of fiscal 2004, compared to 23 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2003. QTL revenues increased over the prior year due primarily to greater phone sales at higher average selling prices by our licensees. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, our licensees reported CDMA phone sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2004 of approximately 38 million units, compared to 26 million units reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2003. Research and development (R&D) expenses were $194 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2004, up 43 percent from the third quarter of fiscal 2003, largely attributable to increases in costs related to integrated circuit products and corporate initiatives to support multimedia applications, high-speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork products, including CDMA2000 1xEV-DO/1xEV-DV, GSM1x and WCDMA (UMTS).
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 3 of 20 Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $162 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2004, up 40 percent from the third quarter of fiscal 2003, largely attributable to increases in employee related expenses, a charitable grant to an educational institution for the primary purpose of furthering the study of engineering and math, and legal fees. Our fiscal 2004 annual effective income tax rates from continuing operations are estimated to be approximately 29 percent and 30 percent for total QUALCOMM and QUALCOMM excluding QSI, respectively. The QUALCOMM rate is lower than the QUALCOMM rate excluding QSI because of capitial losses tax effected in QSI. In the second quarter fiscal 2004 our annual effective income tax rate from continuing operations was estimated to be approximately 30 percent for both total QUALCOMM and QUALCOMM excluding QSI. In the third quarter fiscal 2004 our tax rates from continuing operations were 27 percent for total QUALCOMM and 28 percent for QUALCOMM excluding QSI. The 27 percent third quarter fiscal 2004 tax rate from continuing operations was reduced by approximately $26 million related to the filing of our 2003 federal tax return in June 2004, partially offset by a $14 million adjustment to our forecast of our ability to utilize capital losses. In fiscal 2003, our actual effective income tax rates from continuing operations were approximately 34 percent and 33 percent, for total QUALCOMM and QUALCOMM excluding QSI, respectively. The lower estimated annual effective tax rates as compared to the prior fiscal year are largely due to higher foreign earnings expected in fiscal 2004 which are subject to a lower rate. QUALCOMM STRATEGIC INITIATIVES The QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment includes our strategic investments and related income and expenses. Our QSI operator investment activities continue to decrease as planned. With the sale of TowerCo in the second quarter of fiscal 2004, we no longer have any investment interest in the Vesper Operating Companies in Brazil. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, QSI's results consisted primarily of $18 million in equity losses, most of which related to our investment in Inquam, partially offset by $11 million in realized investment gains and investment income, and $5 million in other income resulting primarily from the transfer of a portion of our FCC Auction Discount Voucher to a wireless operator. STOCK SPLIT
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 4 of 20 On July 13, 2004, QUALCOMM's Board of Directors declared a two-for-one stock split of the Company's Common Stock to be effected in the form of a stock dividend. The non-taxable stock dividend will be distributed on August 13, 2004 to stockholders of record on July 23, 2004. Per share numbers presented herein are on a pre-stock split basis. QUARTERLY CASH DIVIDEND On July 13, 2004, we announced a 40 percent increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.10 to $0.14 per share of common stock. The new dividend rate will be effective for the quarterly dividend payable on September 24, 2004 to stockholders of record at the close of business on August 27, 2004. This dividend will increase the annual dividend rate to $0.56 per share of common stock. BUSINESS OUTLOOK The following statements are forward-looking and actual results may differ materially. Please see Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this release for a description of certain risk factors and QUALCOMM's annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a more complete description of risks. Due to their nature, certain income and expense items such as realized investment gains or losses, income related to the use of our FCC Auction Discount Voucher and asset impairments cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, the Company excludes such items from its business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if the Company incurs any such income or expense items. FOURTH QUARTER FISCAL 2004 Based on the current business outlook, we anticipate that revenues excluding the QSI segment in the fourth fiscal quarter will increase 57-65 percent year-over-year and increase approximately 2-7 percent sequentially. We anticipate that earnings per share excluding the QSI segment will be approximately $0.54-$0.57 in the fourth fiscal quarter, compared to $0.29 in the year ago quarter. This estimate assumes shipments of approximately 36-38 million MSM phone chips during the quarter. Based on the current business outlook, we anticipate that total QUALCOMM revenues in the fourth fiscal quarter will increase approximately 57-65 percent year-over-year and 2-7 percent sequentially. We anticipate that total QUALCOMM earnings per share will be approximately $0.53-
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 5 of 20 $0.56 in the fourth fiscal quarter, including an estimated $0.01 loss per share attributed to the QSI segment, compared to a $0.07 gain per share in the year ago quarter. FISCAL 2004 Based on the current business outlook, we are increasing our guidance for fiscal 2004. We now anticipate that revenues excluding the QSI segment will grow by approximately 33-35 percent year-over-year and earnings per share excluding the QSI segment to be in the range of $2.15-$2.18 for fiscal 2004, compared to $1.42 last fiscal year. We estimate the CDMA phone market to be 161-168 million units in calendar 2004, and we estimate average selling prices of CDMA phones for fiscal 2004, upon which royalties are calculated, to increase to approximately $209, compared to our prior estimate of $195. Based on the current business outlook, we anticipate that total QUALCOMM revenues will grow by approximately 33-35 percent year-over-year and total QUALCOMM earnings per share to be in the range of $2.12-$2.15 for fiscal 2004, compared to $1.01 last fiscal year, including an estimated $0.03 loss per share attributed to the QSI segment for fiscal 2004. CASH AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES QUALCOMM's cash, cash equivalents and both current and noncurrent marketable securities totaled approximately $7.0 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2004, compared to $5.4 billion on September 28, 2003, and $5.0 billion on June 29, 2003. We paid $81 million in cash dividends, or $0.10 per share, in the third quarter of fiscal 2004. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, cash transfers from QSI were offset by cash transfers to QSI, resulting in net cash transfers from QSI of zero. Detailed reconciliations between total QUALCOMM cash flow and cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities excluding the QSI segment are included in this news release.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 6 of 20 RESULTS OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS The following tables, which present segment information, have been adjusted to reflect the SnapTrack reorganization (Note 1) and discontinued operations (Note 3) (dollars in thousands, except per share data): THIRD QUARTER - FISCAL YEAR 2004 SECOND QUARTER - FISCAL YEAR 2004 THIRD QUARTER - FISCAL YEAR 2003 NINE MONTHS - FISCAL YEAR 2004 NINE MONTHS - FISCAL YEAR 2003
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 7 of 20 (1) During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company reorganized its wholly-owned subsidiary, SnapTrack, Inc. (SnapTrack), a developer of wireless position location technology. The Company previously presented all of the revenues and operating results of SnapTrack in the QCT segment. As a result of the reorganization of SnapTrack, revenues and operating results related to SnapTrack's server software business (software for location-based services and applications) became part of the QIS division in the QWI segment. Revenues and operating results related to SnapTrack's client business (the gpsOne(TM) technology that is embedded within the integrated circuit products) remain with the QCT segment. Prior period segment information has been adjusted to conform to the new segment presentation. (2) Reconciling items related to revenues consist primarily of other non-reportable segment revenues less intersegment eliminations. Reconciling items related to earnings before taxes consist primarily of corporate expenses, charges that are not allocated to the segments for management reporting purposes, unallocated net investment income, non-reportable segment results, interest expense and the elimination of intercompany profit. (3) During fiscal 2004, the Company sold its consolidated subsidiaries, the Vesper Operating Companies and TowerCo, and returned personal mobile service (SMP) licenses to Anatel, the telecommunications regulatory agency in Brazil. The results of operations of the Vesper Operating Companies and TowerCo, including gains and losses realized on the sales transactions and the SMP licenses, are presented as discontinued operations. The Company's statements of operations and cash flows for all prior periods have been adjusted to present the discontinued operations. (4) The sum of the earnings per share amounts may not equal total earnings per share due to rounding. * As adjusted as described in the notes above. N/M - Not Meaningful BUSINESS SEGMENT HIGHLIGHTS QUALCOMM CDMA TECHNOLOGIES (QCT) - Shipped approximately 35 million MSM phone chips to customers worldwide during the third quarter of fiscal 2004, compared to approximately 23 million units in the third quarter of fiscal 2003 and approximately 32 million units in the second quarter of fiscal 2004. - Shipped CSM(TM) infrastructure chips for 3G CDMA2000 1X and 1xEV-DO to support approximately 4.6 million equivalent voice channels, compared to approximately 2.2 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2003 and approximately 5.7 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2004. Equivalent voice channels are provided rather than actual chip shipments because our CSM infrastructure chips currently support eight to 32 voice channels per chip. - Addressed the strong demand for chipsets by adding capacity at existing suppliers, as well as evaluated potential new suppliers to supplement future needs. - Announced the on-time sample shipment of the first chips from the Enhanced Multimedia Platform. The MSM6150(TM) chipset for CDMA2000 1X and the MSM6550(TM) chipset for CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO and GSM/GPRS deliver significantly increased processing capacity and optimized audio, video, camera and graphics capabilities. These high-performance, fully integrated single-chip solutions are optimized to drive demand for data-intensive wireless multimedia. - Announced the MSM6280(TM) chipset solution, supporting peak data rates of 7.2 Mbps, to enable higher data rates in support of advanced data services for High Speed Downlink
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 8 of 20 Packet Access (HSDPA), a next-generation feature of the WCDMA (UMTS) standard. Samples of the MSM6280 are expected to ship in the second half of 2005. - Announced the Convergence Platform consisting of three chipset solutions: MSM7200(TM), MSM7500(TM) and MSM7600(TM). These chipsets will enable the incorporation of consumer electronic functionality in wireless devices including high-fidelity entertainment, interactive 3D gaming, a six mega pixel camera interface and 30 frames per second camcorder quality video recording and playback. - Announced several new multimedia products and developments, including: - CMix(TM), a handset messaging technology based on QUALCOMM's market-proven Compact Media Extensions(TM) multimedia software. - Licensing of Q3D(TM) and QXpander(R) technologies from QSound Labs, Inc., a leading developer of audio and voice software solutions for a 3D audio experience. - Announced several new cost effective radioOne(TM) Zero Intermediate Frequency (ZIF) products and enhancements, including: - The RFR6135 receive RF chip, a fully integrated radioOne ZIF solution for CDMA2000 1X and 1xEV-DO to optimize handset designs for high-band market requirements. - On-time sample shipping of the single-band RFR6122(TM) and RFT6122(TM) radioOne ZIF chips, the wireless industry's first CDMA2000 1X devices developed with RF CMOS (Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor) process technology. - Expansion of the RFR6155(TM) device, QUALCOMM's first dual-band RF CMOS receive chip for CDMA2000 1X, and the RFT6150(TM) transmit device for dual-band roaming capabilities. - The radioOne RFR6275(TM) diversity receive chip to increase network capacity and deliver higher speed data rates for HSDPA. QUALCOMM TECHNOLOGY LICENSING (QTL) - Reported that licensees around the world are participating in the growing 3G CDMA market: - Forty-two subscriber licensees reported sales of CDMA2000 1X products and 11 subscriber licensees reported sales of WCDMA (UMTS) products during the second quarter of fiscal 2004.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 9 of 20 - Twelve infrastructure licensees reported sales of CDMA2000 1X products and 11 infrastructure licensees reported sales of WCDMA (UMTS) products during the second quarter of fiscal 2004. - WCDMA (UMTS) royalties contributed approximately 25 percent of total royalties reported by licensees in the third quarter for sales in the second quarter of fiscal 2004. QUALCOMM WIRELESS & INTERNET GROUP (QWI) QUALCOMM INTERNET SERVICES (QIS) - Hosted the BREW(R) 2004 Developers Conference in San Diego, attracting more than 1,600 industry professionals including BREW developers, publishers, operators and handset manufacturers from around the world. Currently, 32 wireless operators are offering BREW services in 22 countries and BREW-based application downloads exceeded 140 million worldwide. - Tata Teleservices in India announced the completion of its deployment of BREW-based wireless services and became the first operator in the world to launch QUALCOMM's BREWChat(R) push-to-chat services. - Announced that Yahoo!(R) Mobile joined the growing global community of BREW publishers. As a BREW Publisher, Yahoo! Mobile plans to create and offer wireless versions of its products, such as Yahoo! Messenger for Mobile, to millions of subscribers. - Introduced enhancements to the BREW solution, including: - Value billing capabilities that allow wireless operators to further monetize BREW applications by offering customers additional purchase opportunities within the context of content and applications on their BREW-enabled devices. - The newly released BREW 3.1 client software and BREW UI Toolkit which include enhancements and new tools designed to simplify and scale the creation of a fully customized user interface (UI) that works across multiple devices. QUALCOMM WIRELESS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS(R) (QWBS) - Shipped approximately 12,400 OmniTRACS(R) units and related products in the third quarter of fiscal 2004, compared to approximately 8,400 in the third quarter of fiscal 2003 and 11,200 in the second quarter of fiscal 2004. This brings the cumulative total number of OmniTRACS and related product shipments to over 523,000 units shipped worldwide.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 10 of 20 - Announced the availability of QTRACS(R) Web, a new Web-based interface to the EutelTRACS(TM) mobile communications system, a satellite-based mobile communications and tracking system that provides real-time messaging and position reporting between European fleets and their operations centers. CONFERENCE CALL QUALCOMM's third quarter fiscal 2004 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on July 21, 2004 beginning at 2:30 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time on the Company's web site at: www.qualcomm.com. This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at www.qualcomm.com immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on July 21, 2004 beginning at approximately 4:30 p.m. (PDT) through July 26, 2004. To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 633-8284 and international callers may dial (402) 977-9140. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 21199227. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at www.qualcomm.com for two weeks following the live call. QUALCOMM Incorporated (www.qualcomm.com) is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on the Company's CDMA digital technology. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., QUALCOMM is included in the S&P 500 Index and is a 2003 FORTUNE 500(R) company traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market(R) under the ticker symbol QCOM. NOTE REGARDING USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The Company presents financial information excluding the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment to facilitate evaluation by management, investors and analysts of its ongoing core operating businesses, including QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT), QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) and QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet (QWI). QSI results relate to
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 11 of 20 strategic investments for which the Company has exit strategies of varying durations. Management believes that the information excluding QSI presents a more representative measure of the operating and liquidity performance of the Company because it excludes the effect of fluctuations in the values of investments that are unrelated to the Company's operational performance. The Company presents cash flow information excluding QSI and including marketable securities. The Company's management uses this non-GAAP presentation to analyze increases and decreases in certain of its liquid assets, comprised of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Management views certain marketable securities as liquid assets available to fund operations, which result from cash management strategies designed to increase yields. However, these instruments do not meet the definition of cash equivalents in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95, "Statement of Cash Flows" and must be excluded from the GAAP statements of cash flows. Since the GAAP statements of cash flows reconcile the Company's beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents balances, the purchases and sales of marketable securities are presented as inflows and outflows. For internal analysis of the Company's cash position, management does not view these transactions as inflows and outflows from the business, but as cash management transactions. If required, such investments could be settled relatively quickly as additional cash resources are needed. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is a helpful measure of the Company's liquidity. The financial information excluding QSI should be considered in addition, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM results and results excluding QSI and between total QUALCOMM cash flow and cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities excluding the QSI segment are presented herein. NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of development, deployment and commercial acceptance of CDMA based networks and CDMA based technology, including CDMA2000 1X and WCDMA (UMTS), both domestically and internationally; our dependence on major customers and licensees;
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 12 of 20 fluctuations in the demand for CDMA based products, services or applications; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic loans, investments and transactions the we have or may pursue; dependence on third party manufacturers and suppliers; our ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; developments in current and future litigation as well as other risks detailed from time-to-time in the Company's SEC reports. ### QUALCOMM(R), Mobile Station Modem(TM), MSM(TM), gpsOne(TM), CSM(TM), MSM6150(TM), MSM6550(TM), MSM6280(TM), MSM7200(TM), MSM7500(TM), MSM7600(TM), CMix(TM), Compact Media Extensions(TM), radioOne(TM), RFR6135(TM), RFR6122(TM), RFT6122(TM), RFR6155(TM), RFT6150(TM), RFR6275(TM), BREW(R), BREWChat(R), QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions(R), OmniTRACS(R), QTRACS(R) and EutelTRACS(TM) are trademarks and/or service marks of QUALCOMM Incorporated. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 13 of 20 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS THIS SCHEDULE IS TO ASSIST THE READER IN RECONCILING FROM RESULTS EXCLUDING QSI TO TOTAL QUALCOMM RESULTS (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) (UNAUDITED) (a) Includes $38 million in interest income related to cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, which are not part of the Company's strategic investment portfolio. (b) The fiscal year 2004 estimated effective tax rate for continuing operations for total QUALCOMM and QUALCOMM excluding QSI are approximately 29% and 30%, respectively. (c) Includes $18 million equity in losses of investees, partially offset by $7 million in realized gains on investments, $2 million in interest income and $2 million in gains on derivatives. (d) The sum of the earnings per share amounts may not equal total earnings per share due to rounding.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 14 of 20 QUALCOMM INCORPORATED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS THIS SCHEDULE IS TO ASSIST THE READER IN RECONCILING FROM RESULTS EXCLUDING QSI TO TOTAL QUALCOMM RESULTS (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) (UNAUDITED) (a) Includes $118 million in interest income related to cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, which are not part of the Company's strategic investment portfolio. (b) The results of operations related to the Vesper Operating Companies, TowerCo and the SMP licenses, including gains and losses realized on sales transactions, are presented as discontinued operations. (c) The fiscal year 2004 estimated effective tax rate for continuing operations for total QUALCOMM and QUALCOMM excluding QSI are approximately 29% and 30%, respectively. (d) Includes $54 million equity in losses of investees and $1 million in other-than-temporary losses on marketable securities, partially offset by $14 million in interest income, $12 million in realized gains on investments and $3 million gain on derivatives. (e) The sum of the earnings per share amounts may not equal total earnings per share due to rounding.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 15 of 20 QUALCOMM INCORPORATED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES THIS SCHEDULE IS TO ASSIST THE READER IN RECONCILING CASH FLOWS FROM CASH CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES EXCLUDING QSI TO TOTAL QUALCOMM CASH FLOWS (IN THOUSANDS) (UNAUDITED) (a) See detail following the nine month cash flow.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 16 of 20 QUALCOMM INCORPORATED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES THIS SCHEDULE IS TO ASSIST THE READER IN RECONCILING CASH FLOWS FROM CASH CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES EXCLUDING QSI TO TOTAL QUALCOMM CASH FLOWS (IN THOUSANDS) (UNAUDITED) (b) See detail on the following page.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 17 of 20 SUPPLEMENTAL DETAIL TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES (IN THOUSANDS) (UNAUDITED)
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 18 of 20 QUALCOMM INCORPORATED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) (UNAUDITED) ASSETS (a) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not allocated to the Company's segments. Net deferred tax assets and liabilities, if any, of subsidiaries that are consolidated by QSI are reflected as QSI assets and liabilities.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 19 of 20 QUALCOMM INCORPORATED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) (UNAUDITED) (a) As adjusted to present results related to Vesper, TowerCo and SMP licenses as discontinued operations.
QUALCOMM Announces Third Quarter Fiscal 2004 Results Page 20 of 20 QUALCOMM INCORPORATED PRIOR PERIOD SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE THIS SCHEDULE IS PROVIDED SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSES OF RECONCILING NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES RELATED TO PRIOR PERIODS (UNAUDITED) (a) The results of operations related to the Vesper Operating Companies, TowerCo and the SMP licenses, including gains and losses realized on sales transactions, are presented as discontinued operations. (b) The second quarter of fiscal 2004, estimated annual effective tax rate for continuing operations for both total QUALCOMM and QUALCOMM excluding QSI was approximately 30%. (c) The fiscal year 2003 effective tax rates for continuing operations for total QUALCOMM and QUALCOMM excluding QSI were approximately 34% and 33%, respectively. (d) The sum of the earnings per share amounts may not equal total earnings per share due to rounding. Revenues and earnings excluding the QSI segment, including for forward looking periods, are calculated as total QUALCOMM revenues and earnings less revenues and earnings attributed to the QSI segment. No other adjustments are made.


