FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20050720162125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 20, 2005, QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended June 26, 2005. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial measurements which are used by management to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results, and the Company believes that pro forma reporting represents relevant and useful information that is widely used by analysts, investors, and other interested parties in our industry.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial information excluding the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment,to facilitate evaluation of its ongoing core operating businesses, including QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT), QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) and QUALCOMM Wireless and Internet (QWI). QSI results relate to strategic investments for which the Company has exit strategies of varying durations. The Company's management believes that the information excluding QSI presents a more representative view of the operating and liquidity performance of the Company because it excludes the effect of fluctuations in value of investments that are unrelated to the Company's operational performance.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial results as though the new method of recording royalties, based solely on reports from licensees, had been in effect for prior periods to facilitate evaluation by management, investors and analysts of the results for these periods on a comparable basis to the Company's current results, current guidance and future periods. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is useful in evaluating performance on a consistent and comparable basis.
     The attached press release presents pro forma results for fiscal 2005 excluding one-time tax benefits related to fiscal 2004 to provide management, as well as investors, a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is useful in evaluating performance on a consistent and comparable basis.
     The attached press release presents pro forma cash flow information including marketable securities. The Company's management uses this non-GAAP presentation to analyze increases and decreases in certain of its liquid assets, comprised of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Management views certain marketable securities as liquid assets available to fund operations, which result from cash management strategies designed to increase yields. However, these instruments do not meet the definition of cash equivalents in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95, "Statement of Cash Flows" and must be excluded from the GAAP statements of cash flows. Since the GAAP statements of cash flows reconcile the Company's beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents balances, the purchases and sales of marketable securities are presented as inflows and outflows. For internal analysis of the Company's cash position, management does not view these transactions as inflows and outflows from the business, but as cash management transactions. If required, such investments could be settled relatively quickly as additional cash resources are needed. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is a helpful measure of the Company's liquidity.
     The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, pro forma is not a term defined by GAAP and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and total QUALCOMM cash flow and QUALCOMM pro forma changes in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are presented in the press release.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
SAN DIEGO  July 20, 2005  QUALCOMM Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM), a pioneer and innovator of Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) and other advanced wireless technologies, today announced results for its third fiscal quarter ended June 26, 2005.
Total QUALCOMM Third Quarter Results:
Pro Forma Defined
Consistent with the second quarter of 2005, pro forma results exclude the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment and one-time tax benefits recorded in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2005, and are presented as if the "New Method" of recording royalties had been in use in the prior year.
1
 
-more-
 
QUALCOMM Pro Forma Third Quarter Results:
Detailed reconciliations between total QUALCOMM results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and cash flows are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on our Investor Relations web page at .
www.qualcomm.com
"We are pleased to increase our fiscal year earnings projections, primarily as a result of greater shipments of higher priced WCDMA handsets reflected in our June results. Volume shipments of WCDMA and 1xEV-DO MSMs have increased substantially year-over-year and sequentially, and we look forward to further increases in the quarters ahead. We are projecting continued acceleration in WCDMA and 1xEV-DO shipments toward the end of 2005 and beyond as exciting new handsets in a broad range of price points enable operators to address a larger segment of their subscriber base," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, CEO of QUALCOMM.
"QUALCOMM's third generation (3G) products and technologies have helped create a wireless value chain that has grown revenues for QUALCOMM and our partners: wireless content providers, application developers, manufacturers and wireless operators. With the launch of MSM7500, we are providing our partners with an even more powerful hardware platform to build new services that will change the way consumers think about their wireless phone."
"We have increased our research and development investment year-over-year to capitalize on the opportunities afforded by the continued and significant transition to 3G. Our efforts have resulted in
 
extensive enhancements to fundamental CDMA performance through the development and use of inventions related to diversity receivers, interference cancellation, equalizers, and multi-carrier radios. In addition, we have continued our long history of innovation by developing compelling new technologies, such as 1xEV-DO Gold Multicast, Platinum Multicast and the FLO air interface, that can greatly improve the efficient use of operators' spectrum and enable multimedia services to be made available to the mass market at affordable prices. QUALCOMM remains focused on bringing new services and features to market through innovation in technologies, products and services, and driving down the costs of this innovation through integration in our chips."
Cash and Marketable Securities
QUALCOMM's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $7.9 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2005, compared to $7.6 billion on September 26, 2004 and $7.0 billion on June 27, 2004. During the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we paid cash dividends of $147 million and repurchased shares of stock at a net cost of $723 million.
Research and Development
Research and development expenses were $259 million in the third fiscal quarter, up 34 percent year-over-year and 3 percent sequentially, largely attributable to increased headcount related to development of integrated circuit products and initiatives to support lower cost solutions, multimedia applications, high-speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork products, including CDMA2000 1xEV-DO, WCDMA and HSDPA. R&D expenses include $13 million attributable to MediaFLO USA in the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, as compared to $7 million in the prior year quarter.
Selling, General and Administrative
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $150 million in the third fiscal quarter, down 4 percent year-over-year and 3 percent sequentially.
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2005 effective income tax rate for total QUALCOMM is now estimated to be approximately 22 percent, compared to our previous estimate of approximately 24 percent. The decrease in our estimated annual effective tax rate for total QUALCOMM is primarily the result of
 
our increased ability to use capital loss carryforwards as well as an election to compute our California tax on the basis of our U.S. operations only. Since these benefits were recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, the rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2005 of approximately 18% for total QUALCOMM is lower than the estimated annual effective tax rate. Our fiscal 2005 pro forma effective tax rate is estimated to be approximately 28 percent, consistent with our previous estimate. For fiscal 2005 pro forma presentation we excluded $0.01 diluted earnings per share, for the benefit related to the California tax election attributable to fiscal 2004.
QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI)
The QSI segment includes our strategic investments and related income and expenses. The third quarter of fiscal 2005 results consisted primarily of a $48 million gain on our minority investment in a wireless publisher and $10 million of other income, partially offset by $22 million of operating expenses primarily related to MediaFLO USA and $7 million in equity in losses of investees. Total QUALCOMM results for the third quarter of fiscal 2005 include $0.05 diluted earnings per share for the QSI segment, compared to break-even QSI results in the third quarter of fiscal 2004.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward-looking and actual results may differ materially. Please see Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the end of this news release for a description of certain risk factors and QUALCOMM's annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a more complete description of risks. Due to their nature, certain income and expense items such as realized investment gains or losses in QSI and asset impairments cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, the Company excludes forecasts of such items from its business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if the Company incurs any such income or expense items.
A pro forma outlook is provided consistent with the presentation of pro forma results provided elsewhere herein. Total QUALCOMM outlook for fiscal 2005 is compared to total QUALCOMM results for fiscal 2004 which reflect only partial economic performance of the Company's licensing business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 due to the prospective change to the New Method during that period.
 
Our updated guidance, compared to our prior guidance, reflects an increase in the midpoint of our pro forma earnings per share estimates of $0.02 for fiscal 2005. In addition, we are decreasing the estimate for calendar 2005 handset shipments by approximately 5 percent which is largely attributable to our expectations that the sale of WCDMA handsets in Europe in the second half of the calendar year will be less than previously estimated for the year. Our handset shipment forecast will be discussed in more detail during our third quarter conference call. This call is scheduled for 2:30pm (PDT) on Wednesday July 20, 2005. Refer to conference call dial-in information included at the end of this press release.
 
The following estimates are approximations and are based on the current business outlook:
FISCAL YEAR
 
FOURTH QUARTER
CALENDAR YEAR handset estimates
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding
 
The following tables, which present segment information, have been adjusted to reflect the 2005 segment presentation (Note 1), as well as to present QTL results for fiscal year 2004 as if the New Method of recognizing QTL revenues had been in effect for the entire year (Note 4.) GAAP equivalents and reconciliations for fiscal 2004 periods are included at the end of this news release (dollars in millions, except per share data):
Results of Business Segments
Third Quarter - Fiscal Year 2005
Second Quarter - Fiscal Year 2005
Third Quarter - Fiscal Year 2004
Nine Months - Fiscal Year 2005
Nine Months - Fiscal Year 2004
 
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
Business Segment Information
QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT)
 
QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL)
 
QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet Group (QWI)
     
QUALCOMM Internet Services (QIS)
     
QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions
(QWBS)
QUALCOMM's third quarter fiscal 2005 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on July 20, 2005 beginning at 2:30 p.m. (PDT) on the Company's web site at: This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on July 20, 2005 beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. (PDT) through August 4, 2005 at 5:00 p.m. (PDT). To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 633-8284 and international callers may dial (402) 977-9140. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number
Conference Call
www.qualcomm.com.
www.qualcomm.com
 
21245566. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at for two weeks following the live call.
www.qualcomm.com
Editor's Note: if you would like additional information on QUALCOMM, please view the QUALCOMM press room at
http://www.qualcomm.com/press/index.html .
QUALCOMM Incorporated () is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on CDMA and other advanced technologies. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., QUALCOMM is included in the S&P 500 Index and is a 2005 FORTUNE 500 company traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol QCOM.
www.qualcomm.com
Pro forma financial measurements are used by management to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results, and the Company believes that pro forma reporting represents relevant and useful information that is widely used by analysts, investors, and other interested parties in our industry. The Company presents pro forma financial information excluding the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment to facilitate evaluation of its ongoing core operating businesses, including QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT), QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) and QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet (QWI). QSI results relate to strategic investments for which the Company has exit strategies of varying durations. Management believes that the information excluding QSI presents a more representative view of the operating and liquidity performance of the Company because it excludes the effect of fluctuations in value of investments that are unrelated to the Company's operational performance.
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents pro forma financial results as though the New Method of recording royalties had been in effect for prior periods to facilitate evaluation by management, investors and analysts of the results for these periods on a comparable basis to the Company's current results, current guidance and future periods. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating performance on a consistent and comparable basis.
The Company presents pro forma results for fiscal 2005 excluding one-time tax benefits related to fiscal 2004 to provide management, as well as investors, a clearer understanding of its ongoing tax
 
rate and after tax earnings. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating performance on a consistent and comparable basis.
The Company's management uses pro forma cash flow information including marketable securities to analyze increases and decreases in certain of its liquid assets, comprised of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Management views certain marketable securities as liquid assets available to fund operations, which result from cash management strategies designed to increase yields. However, these instruments do not meet the definition of cash equivalents in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95, "Statement of Cash Flows" and must be excluded from the GAAP statements of cash flows. Since the GAAP statements of cash flows reconcile the Company's beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents balances, the purchases and sales of marketable securities are presented as inflows and outflows. For internal analysis of the Company's cash position, management does not view these transactions as inflows and outflows from the business, but as cash management transactions. If required, such investments could be settled relatively quickly as additional cash resources are needed. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is a helpful measure of the Company's liquidity.
The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, pro forma is not a term defined by GAAP and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and total QUALCOMM cash flow and QUALCOMM pro forma changes in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are presented herein.
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of development, deployment and commercial acceptance of CDMA based networks and CDMA based technology, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO and WCDMA, both domestically and internationally; our dependence on major customers and licensees; fluctuations in the demand for CDMA based products, services or applications; foreign
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
currency fluctuations; strategic loans, investments and transactions the Company has or may pursue; our dependence on third party manufacturers and suppliers; our ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; developments in current and future litigation, as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in the Company's SEC reports.
QUALCOMM, QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions, Mobile Station Modem, MSM, FLO, MediaFLO, gpsOne, CSM, QUALCOMM Single Chip, QSC, MSM6500, MSM6250, MSM6550, MSM7500, BREW, uiOne, TruckMAIL, OmniTRACS, OmniExpress, GlobalTRACS, T2, LINQand Untethered TrailerTRACS are trademarks and/or service marks of QUALCOMM Incorporated. CDMA2000is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


