FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20051102164318.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
           On November 2, 2005, QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended September 25, 2005. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
           The attached press release presents pro forma financial measurements which are used by management to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results, and the Company believes that pro forma reporting represents relevant and useful information that is widely used by analysts, investors, and other interested parties in its industry.
           The attached press release presents pro forma financial information excluding the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, to facilitate evaluation of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT), QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) and QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet (QWI). QSI results relate to strategic investments for which the Company has exit strategies of varying durations. The Company's management believes that the information excluding QSI presents a more representative view of the operating and liquidity performance of the Company because it excludes the effect of fluctuations in the values of investments that are unrelated to the Company's operational performance.
           The attached press release presents pro forma financial results as though the method of recording royalties in fiscal 2005 (referred to as the new method), based solely on reports from licensees, had been in effect throughout fiscal 2004 to facilitate evaluation by management, investors and analysts of the results for fiscal 2004 on a comparable basis to the Company's current results, current guidance and future periods. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is useful in evaluating its performance on a consistent and comparable basis.
           The attached press release presents pro forma results for fiscal 2005 excluding one-time tax benefits related to fiscal 2004 to facilitate an understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is useful in evaluating its performance on a consistent and comparable basis.
           The attached press release presents pro forma financial information for fiscal 2006 excluding share-based compensation under FAS 123R to facilitate evaluation by management, investors and other interested parties in its industry of core business operating results. The Company's management uses this pro forma presentation to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results because share-based compensation is not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. The Company believes that this presentation is also useful to evaluate performance on a basis that is consistent and comparable with periods prior to the adoption of FAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.
           The attached press release presents pro forma cash flow information including marketable securities. The Company's management uses this non-GAAP presentation to analyze increases and decreases in certain of its liquid assets, comprised of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Management views certain marketable securities as liquid assets available to fund operations, which result from cash management strategies designed to increase yields. However, these marketable securities do not meet the definition of cash equivalents in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95, "Statement of Cash Flows" and must be excluded from the GAAP statements of cash flows. Since the GAAP statements of cash flows reconcile the Company's beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents balances, the purchases and sales of marketable securities are presented as inflows and outflows. For internal analysis of the Company's cash position, management does not view these transactions as inflows and outflows from the business, but as cash management transactions. If required, most of such investments could be settled relatively quickly as additional cash resources are needed. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is a helpful measure of the Company's liquidity.
           The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, pro forma is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and total QUALCOMM cash flow and QUALCOMM pro forma changes in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are presented in the press release.
Table of Contents
     
Item 9.01.
Exhibits.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SAN DIEGO  November 2, 2005  QUALCOMM Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) today announced results for its fourth quarter and fiscal 2005 year ended September 25, 2005.
Total QUALCOMM Results
1
:
Fourth Quarter
Fiscal 2005
 
-more-
 
Pro Forma Defined
Pro forma results exclude the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment for all periods presented, and one-time tax benefits related to fiscal 2004 that were recorded in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2005. Pro forma results for fiscal 2004 are presented as if the "New Method" of recording royalties had been in use throughout that year.
1
QUALCOMM Pro Forma Results:
Fourth Quarter
Fiscal 2005
Detailed reconciliations between total QUALCOMM results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and cash flows are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on our Investor Relations web page at .
www.qualcomm.com
 
"Our record financial results reflect the accelerating migration to CDMA throughout the world," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chief executive officer of QUALCOMM. "As of September 2005, there were approximately 159 operators offering third generation services in 71 countries with over 200 million subscribers."
"We aggressively increased our R&D investment in fiscal 2005. QUALCOMM consistently leads the market with innovative wireless solutions benefiting suppliers, operators and consumers. A significant result is that QUALCOMM's WCDMA/HSDPA solutions have been selected by more than 30 handset manufacturers around the world and a number of very exciting wireless devices based on our chipsets will be introduced by the end of this year. In addition, our CDMA2000 1xEV-DO solutions power more than 120 commercially available devices around the world, as existing networks are expanded and new networks are launched. Our pioneering work in DO has been adapted to create HSDPA, and QUALCOMM is recognized as a leading innovator in both of these technologies. The multimedia capabilities of our Launchpad suite of software and our BREW applications platform have seen tremendous uptake over the past year as operators have increasingly focused on data as a source for new revenue streams. We recently demonstrated MediaFLO working over-the-air and we remain optimistic about a significant commercial launch next year. The technical superiority of our MediaFLO technology will enable the delivery of high quality video to the mass market."
"Looking forward, we anticipate 2006 to be yet another strong growth year with new CDMA handset shipments growing approximately 30% year-over-year. The wireless market continues to evolve at a rapid pace and QUALCOMM will continue increasing R&D investments in fiscal 2006 to capture the many opportunities ahead and maintain or extend our leadership position in the market."
Cash and Marketable Securities
QUALCOMM's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $8.7 billion at the end of fiscal 2005, compared to $7.9 billion on June 26, 2005 and $7.6 billion on September 26, 2004. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company recognized approximately $43 million of investment income related to put options sold in connection with our stock repurchase program
 
which, if exercised, will require us to repurchase an additional 11.5 million shares for $411 million. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we made the decision to repatriate approximately $0.5 billion of qualifying foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
Research and Development
Research and development (R&D) expenses were $271 million in the fourth fiscal quarter and $1.0 billion in fiscal 2005, up 30 and 40 percent year-over-year, respectively. Increases in R&D are primarily due to additional engineering resources for the development of integrated circuit products and other initiatives to support lower-cost phones, multimedia applications, high-speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork products and technologies, including CDMA2000 1xEV-DO, WCDMA, HSDPA, GSM/GPRS/EDGE and OFDMA, and the development of our FLO (Forward Link Only) technology, MediaFLO Media Distribution System (MDS) and iMoD display products. R&D expenses included $16 million in the fourth quarter and $49 million in fiscal 2005 attributable to the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment for MediaFLO USA, as compared to $8 million in the prior year quarter and $25 million in fiscal 2004.
Selling, General and Administrative
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $178 million in the fourth fiscal quarter and $631 million in fiscal 2005, up 29 and 15 percent year-over-year, respectively. Increases in fourth quarter and fiscal 2005 SG&A expenses compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 are largely attributable to increases in legal and patent related expenses, headcount growth and the offsetting effect of other income in the prior year periods that reduced SG&A expenses. SG&A expenses included $10 million of expenses in the fourth quarter and $20 million of expenses in fiscal 2005 attributable to the QSI segment, as compared to $3 million of income in the prior year quarter and $4 million of income in fiscal 2004.
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2005 effective income tax rate for total QUALCOMM is 24 percent, compared to our previous estimate of approximately 22 percent. Our fiscal 2005 pro forma effective tax rate is 30 percent, compared to our previous estimate of 28 percent. The increase in our annual effective tax rates as compared to our previous estimates for total QUALCOMM and QUALCOMM pro forma is primarily the result of $35 million additional tax expense related to our decision to repatriate on a
 
one-time basis approximately $0.5 billion of qualifying foreign earnings in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. With this additional tax expense, the rates for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 are 32% for total QUALCOMM and 33% for QUALCOMM pro forma.
QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment includes our strategic investments and related income and expenses. The fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 results consisted of $26 million of operating expenses primarily related to MediaFLO USA and $4 million in equity in losses of investees, partially offset by $3 million in realized gains on investments. Total QUALCOMM results for the fourth quarter and fiscal 2005 include break-even and $0.06 diluted earnings per share for the QSI segment, respectively, compared to $0.03 and $0.01 earnings per share in the year-ago comparable periods.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward-looking and actual results may differ materially. Please see Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the end of this news release for a description of certain risk factors and QUALCOMM's annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a more complete description of risks. Due to their nature, certain income and expense items such as realized investment gains or losses in QSI and asset impairments cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, the Company excludes forecasts of such items from its business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if the Company incurs any such income or expense items.
The following business outlook for total QUALCOMM includes the effects of the Company's adoption of SFAS No.123R, Share-Based Payment (FAS 123R) in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, which requires the expensing of share-based payment programs. A pro forma outlook is provided consistent with the presentation of pro forma results provided elsewhere herein and excludes share-based compensation. The total QUALCOMM and QUALCOMM pro forma outlook summary is detailed herein.
Fiscal 2006 earnings per share include a decrease of approximately $0.18 per share for total QUALCOMM related to a preliminary estimate of share-based compensation expense, and a decrease of approximately $0.03 per share due to the ELATA acquisition which closed in August and the anticipated Flarion acquisition which is expected to close in the first half of fiscal 2006. The expiration of royalty-sharing obligations under two agreements, one in fiscal 2005 and the other in fiscal 2006,
 
will contribute to an increase in our royalty revenues in fiscal 2006 and beyond. In fiscal 2006, we expect the termination of these royalty sharing obligations to contribute approximately $290 to $310 million to our fiscal 2006 revenue and pretax earnings. We also expect a tax rate for fiscal 2006 of approximately 24 percent for total QUALCOMM and approximately 27 percent for QUALCOMM pro forma.
Our handset shipment forecast will be discussed in more detail during our fourth quarter conference call. This call is scheduled for 2:30pm (on Wednesday November 2, 2005. Refer to conference call dial-in information included at the end of this press release.
PST)
 
The following estimates are approximations and are based on the current business outlook:
FIRST QUARTER
*Shipments in Sept. quarter, reported in Dec. quarter
FISCAL YEAR
*Shipments in Sep. to June quarters, reported in Dec. to Sep. quarters
CALENDAR YEAR handset estimates
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding
 
The following tables, which present segment information, have been adjusted to reflect the 2005 segment presentation (Note 1), as well as to present QTL results for fiscal year 2004 as if the New Method of recognizing QTL revenues had been in effect for the entire year (Note 3.) GAAP equivalents and reconciliations for fiscal 2004 periods are included at the end of this news release (dollars in millions, except per share data):
Results of Business Segments
Fourth Quarter  Fiscal Year 2005
Third Quarter  Fiscal Year 2005
First Quarter  Fiscal Year 2005
Fourth Quarter  Fiscal Year 2004
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2005
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2004
 
 
*    As adjusted as described in the notes above.
N/M  Not Meaningful
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
Business Segment Information
QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT)
 
QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL)
QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet Group (QWI)
     
QUALCOMM Internet Services (QIS)
 
QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions (QWBS)
Other
 
QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI)
     
MediaFLO USA
Conference Call
QUALCOMM's fourth quarter fiscal 2005 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on November 2, 2005 beginning at 2:30 p.m. (PST) on the Company's web site at: . This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on November 2, 2005 beginning at approximately 4:30 p.m. (PST) through November 17, 2005 at 4:30 p.m. (PST). To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 633-8284 and international callers may dial (402) 977-9140. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 21245580. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at for two weeks following the live call.
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
 
Editor's Note: if you would like additional information on QUALCOMM, please view the QUALCOMM press room at .
http://www.qualcomm.com/press/index.html
QUALCOMM Incorporated () is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on CDMA and other advanced technologies. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., QUALCOMM is included in the S&P 500 Index and is a 2005 FORTUNE 500 company traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol QCOM.
www.qualcomm.com
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Pro forma financial measurements are used by management to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results, and the Company believes that pro forma reporting represents relevant and useful information that is widely used by analysts, investors and other interested parties in its industry. The Company presents pro forma financial information excluding the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment to facilitate evaluation of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT), QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) and QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet (QWI). QSI results relate to strategic investments for which the Company has exit strategies of varying durations. Management believes that the information excluding QSI presents a more representative view of the operating and liquidity performance of the Company because it excludes the effect of fluctuations in the values of investments that are unrelated to the Company's operational performance.
The Company presents pro forma financial results for fiscal 2004 as though the New Method of recording royalties had been in effect throughout fiscal 2004 to facilitate evaluation by management, investors and analysts of the results for fiscal 2004 on a comparable basis to the Company's current results, current guidance and future periods. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its performance on a consistent and comparable basis.
The Company presents pro forma results for fiscal 2005 excluding one-time tax benefits related to fiscal 2004 to facilitate an understanding of its ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its performance on a consistent and comparable basis.
The Company present pro forma financial results for fiscal 2006 excluding share-based compensation under FAS 123R to facilitate evaluation by management, investors and other interested parties in its industry of core business operating results. The Company's management uses this pro forma presentation to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results because share-based compensation is not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. The Company believes that this presentation is also useful to evaluate performance on a basis that is consistent and comparable with periods prior to the adoption of FAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.
 
The Company's management uses pro forma cash flow information including marketable securities to analyze increases and decreases in certain of its liquid assets, comprised of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Management views certain marketable securities as liquid assets available to fund operations, which result from cash management strategies designed to increase yields. However, these marketable securities do not meet the definition of cash equivalents in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95, "Statement of Cash Flows" and must be excluded from the GAAP statements of cash flows. Since the GAAP statements of cash flows reconcile the Company's beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents balances, the purchases and sales of marketable securities are presented as inflows and outflows. For internal analysis of the Company's cash position, management does not view these transactions as inflows and outflows from the business, but as cash management transactions. If required, most of such investments could be settled relatively quickly as additional cash resources are needed. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is a helpful measure of the Company's liquidity.
The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, pro forma is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and total QUALCOMM cash flow and QUALCOMM pro forma changes in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are presented herein.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of development, deployment and commercial acceptance of CDMA-based networks and CDMA-based technology, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO and WCDMA, both domestically and internationally; our dependence on major customers and licensees; fluctuations in the demand for CDMA-based products, services or applications; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic loans, investments and transactions the Company has or may pursue; our dependence on third party manufacturers and suppliers; our ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; the Flarion acquisition; developments in current and future litigation, as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in the Company's SEC reports.
QUALCOMM, QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions, Mobile Station Modem, MSM, FLO, Clipcasting, MediaFLO, MSM6500, MSM6550, PM6620, PM6630, PM6640, BREW, uiOne, iMoD, TruckMAIL, OmniTRACS, OmniExpress, GlobalTRACS, T2, LINQ and Untethered TrailerTRACS are trademarks and/or service marks of QUALCOMM Incorporated. CDMA2000is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)   See detail on the following pages.
 
 
(b)   See detail on the following page.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QTL revenues as reported under GAAP and using the New Method are presented to illustrate the difference between the Prior Method used for royalties prior to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 and the New Method implemented starting in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004.
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.


