FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20060125161930.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On January 25, 2006, QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its first quarter ended December 25, 2005. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial information that excludes the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, estimated share-based compensation, tax benefits related to prior years, and acquired in-process R&D expense. Pro forma financial measures used by the Company's management include pro forma revenues, pro forma cost of equipment and services revenues, pro forma R&D expenses, pro forma SG&A expenses, pro forma total operating expenses, pro forma operating income (loss), pro forma net investment income, pro forma income before income taxes, pro forma income tax expense, pro forma effective tax rate, pro forma diluted earnings per share, pro forma operating cash flow, and pro forma free cash flow. Pro forma information is used by management to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results, and the Company believes that pro forma reporting represents relevant and useful information that is widely used by analysts, investors, and other interested parties in its industry.
     The Company uses pro forma financial information excluding QSI and share-based compensation to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results because the effects of fluctuations in the value of investments and share-based compensation are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance, and share-based compensation is not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. QSI results relate to strategic investments for which the Company has exit strategies of varying durations. The Company believes that financial data excluding the QSI segment and the estimate of share-based compensation provides investors with meaningful information about the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies, QUALCOMM Technology Licensing and QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet. This presentation is also useful to investors in evaluating performance on a basis that is consistent and comparable with periods prior to the adoption of FAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.
     The attached press release presents pro forma results excluding certain tax benefits related to prior years to provide management, as well as investors, a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is useful in evaluating its performance on a consistent and comparable basis.
     The Company presents pro forma financial information for fiscal 2006 excluding acquired in-process R&D expense to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating performance because acquired in-process R&D expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses. Management believes that this presentation is useful to evaluate performance on a consistent and comparable basis.
     The attached press release presents pro forma cash flow information including marketable securities. The Company's management uses this non-GAAP presentation to analyze increases and decreases in certain of its liquid assets, comprised of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Management views certain marketable securities as liquid assets available to fund operations, which result from cash management strategies designed to increase yields. However, these marketable securities do not meet the definition of cash equivalents in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95, "Statement of Cash Flows." Since the GAAP statements of cash flows reconcile the Company's beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents balances, the purchases and sales of marketable securities are presented as inflows and outflows. For purposes of internal analysis of the Company's cash position, management does not view these transactions as inflows and outflows from the business, but as cash management transactions. If required, most of such investments could be settled relatively quickly as additional cash resources are needed. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is a helpful measure of the Company's liquidity.
Table of Contents
     The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and 2005, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management and investors use this measure to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
     The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principals (GAAP). In addition, pro forma is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and total QUALCOMM (GAAP) cash flow and QUALCOMM pro forma changes in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are presented in the press release.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
QUALCOMM Contact: Bill Davidson Vice President, Investor Relations 1-(858) 658-4813 (ph) 1-(858) 651-9303 (fax) e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  January 25, 2006  QUALCOMM Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) today announced results for its first quarter of fiscal 2006 ended December 25, 2005.
Total QUALCOMM (GAAP) First Quarter Results:
Total QUALCOMM results are reported in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
QUALCOMM Pro Forma First Quarter Results:
Pro forma results exclude the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, estimated share-based compensation and tax benefits related to prior years.
-more-
 
Detailed reconciliations between total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and cash flows are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on our Investor Relations web page at
www.qualcomm.com.
"We delivered record first quarter revenue and strong year-over-year growth led by demand for our chips," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, CEO of QUALCOMM. "I'm pleased to see continued execution on our product roadmaps as we partner with manufacturers, operators and developers to bring new innovations to market. In emerging wireless markets like China and India, demand for low-end CDMA phones is increasing; in more established markets like the United States, South Korea, Japan and Europe, subscribers continue to migrate and upgrade to feature rich 3G devices and services."
"Looking forward, we expect continued growth of CDMA2000 1xEV-DO products in North America, Japan, South Korea and Latin America. We remain encouraged by the consumer uptake of WCDMA services in Japan and Europe, and will continue working closely with operators during their ongoing WCDMA and HSDPA network deployment and optimization efforts. We remain well positioned to capitalize on the growth of 3G, thanks to the extensive value chain of partnerships that exists to rapidly bring new innovations to consumers and enterprise customers."
"QUALCOMM has a proven history of bringing the most advanced wireless technologies to market for large-scale deployments. The recent closure of the Flarion acquisition enhances QUALCOMM's strong position in OFDMA and further demonstrates our commitment to consistently add to our intellectual property (IP) portfolio through internal research and development and acquisition. Our research and development activities combined with our unique business model help enable our partners to supply wireless products and services with new features and functionality that drive incremental revenue growth for the industry."
 
Cash and Marketable Securities
QUALCOMM's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $9.4 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2006, compared to $8.7 billion at the end of the prior quarter and $8.0 billion a year ago. On January 12, 2006, we announced a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per common share, payable on March 24, 2006 to stockholders of record on February 24, 2006.
Estimated Share-Based Compensation
In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we adopted revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Share-Based Payment (FAS 123R), which requires that share-based compensation be recorded in our financial statements. Historically, this had been identified in the footnote disclosures to our financial statements in accordance with FAS 123. We have implemented FAS 123R using the modified prospective method. Under this method, prior periods are not revised for comparative purposes. Our share-based compensation is estimated utilizing a lattice binomial option valuation model and has been classified in the appropriate categories of our operating expenses. However, estimated share-based compensation is not allocated to our business segments because we do not consider it relevant when evaluating the operating performance of our business segments, and is also excluded from QUALCOMM pro forma results. Total QUALCOMM (GAAP) net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 included estimated share-based compensation of $82 million, net of tax, or $0.05 per share.
Research and Development
Pro forma research and development (R&D) expenses increased 25 percent year-over-year, primarily due to additional engineering resources for the development of integrated circuit products and other initiatives to support low-cost phones, multimedia applications, high-speed wireless access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork products and technologies, including CDMA2000, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA, HSDPA, GSM/GPRS/EDGE and OFDMA, and the development of our iMoD display
 
products. QSI R&D expenses increased year-over-year primarily due to increased expenses related to MediaFLO USA.
Selling, General and Administrative
Pro forma selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 17 percent year-over-year, largely attributable to increases in employee related expenses to support our growing worldwide customer base, and professional fees related to legal and patent activities. QSI SG&A expenses increased year-over-year primarily due to increased expenses related to MediaFLO USA.
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2006 effective income tax rate is estimated to be approximately 22 percent, compared to 24 percent in fiscal 2005. Our fiscal 2006 QUALCOMM pro forma effective tax rate is estimated to be approximately 26 percent, compared to 30 percent in fiscal 2005. The decrease in our fiscal 2006 estimated annual effective tax rates compared to our fiscal 2005 tax rates for both total QUALCOMM (GAAP) and QUALCOMM pro forma is primarily the result of projected increased foreign earnings in 2006 taxed at a lower rate. A benefit of approximately $0.03 per share was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 related to the expected impact of prior year tax audits completed during the quarter. This benefit reduced the rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 for total QUALCOMM (GAAP) to approximately 16 percent. For fiscal 2006 QUALCOMM pro forma presentation we excluded this $0.03 diluted earnings per share benefit to provide a clearer understanding of our ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings.
QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment includes our strategic investments and related income and expenses. Total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 include $0.01 loss per share for the QSI segment compared to $0.02 diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The
 
first quarter fiscal 2006 QSI results include $28 million of operating expenses, primarily related to MediaFLO USA, and $20 million of equity in losses of investees.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward-looking and actual results may differ materially. Please see "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this news release for a description of certain risk factors and QUALCOMM's annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a more complete description of risks. Due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment gains or losses in QSI, gains and losses on certain derivative instruments or asset impairments, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, the Company excludes forecasts of such items from its business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if the Company incurs any such income or expense items.
Although estimated share-based compensation is included in the business outlook for total QUALCOMM (GAAP), actual estimated share-based compensation recorded under FAS 123R may vary materially from the business outlook as the methodology used to calculate this estimate is dependent on a variety of assumptions which are subject to market fluctuations and other variable factors. A pro forma business outlook is provided below consistent with the presentation of pro forma results provided elsewhere herein and also excludes in-process R&D expense related to acquisitions completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2006.
We continue to expect strong revenue, earnings and cash flow growth in 2006 and are reaffirming our fiscal 2006 revenue and earnings guidance for total QUALCOMM (GAAP), QUALCOMM pro forma and our 2006 calendar year handset guidance.
 
The following estimates are approximations and are based on the current business outlook:
SECOND QUARTER
FISCAL YEAR
CALENDAR YEAR Handset Estimates
 
(dollars in millions, except per share data):
Results of Business Segments
First Quarter  Fiscal Year 2006
Fourth Quarter  Fiscal Year 2005
First Quarter  Fiscal Year 2005
Second Quarter  Fiscal Year 2005
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2005
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
Business Segment Information
QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT)
QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL)
 
QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet Group (QWI)
     
QUALCOMM Internet Services (QIS)
     
QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions
(QWBS)
 
QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI)
     
MediaFLO USA
Other
Conference Call
QUALCOMM's first quarter fiscal 2006 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on January 25, 2006 beginning at 2:30 p.m. Pacific Standard Time on the Company's web site at: . This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on January 25, 2006 beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. (PST) through February 8, 2006 at 5:30 p.m. (PST). To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 642-1687 and international callers may dial (706) 645-9291. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 4046245. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at for two weeks following the live call.
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
 
Editor's Note: If you would like additional information on QUALCOMM, please view the QUALCOMM press room at
http://www.qualcomm.com/press/index.html.
QUALCOMM Incorporated () is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on the Company's CDMA digital technology. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., QUALCOMM is included in the S&P 500 Index and is a 2005 FORTUNE 500 company traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol QCOM.
www.qualcomm.com
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents pro forma financial information that excludes the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, estimated share-based compensation, tax benefits related to prior years, and acquired in-process R&D expense. Pro forma financial measures used by the Company's management include pro forma revenues, pro forma cost of equipment and services revenues, pro forma R&D expenses, pro forma SG&A expenses, pro forma total operating expenses, pro forma operating income (loss), pro forma net investment income, pro forma income before income taxes, pro forma income tax expense, pro forma effective tax rate, pro forma diluted earnings per share, pro forma operating cash flow, and pro forma free cash flow. Pro forma information is used by management to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results, and the Company believes that pro forma reporting represents relevant and useful information that is widely used by analysts, investors and other interested parties in its industry.
The Company's management uses pro forma financial information excluding QSI and share-based compensation to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results because the effects of fluctuations in the value of investments and share-based compensation are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance, and share-based compensation is not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. QSI results relate to strategic investments for which the Company has exit strategies of varying durations. The Company believes that financial data excluding the QSI segment and the estimate of share-based compensation provides investors with meaningful information about the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies, QUALCOMM Technology Licensing and QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet. This presentation
 
is also useful to investors in evaluating performance on a basis that is consistent and comparable with periods prior to the adoption of FAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.
The Company presents pro forma results excluding certain tax benefits related to prior years to provide management, as well as investors, a clearer understanding of its ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating performance on a consistent and comparable basis.
The Company presents pro forma financial information for fiscal 2006 excluding acquired in-process R&D expense to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating performance because acquired in-process R&D expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses. Management believes that this presentation is useful to evaluate performance on a consistent and comparable basis.
The Company's management uses pro forma cash flow information including marketable securities to analyze increases and decreases in certain of its liquid assets, comprised of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Management views certain marketable securities as liquid assets available to fund operations, which result from cash management strategies designed to increase yields. However, these marketable securities do not meet the definition of cash equivalents in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95, "Statement of Cash Flows." Since the GAAP statements of cash flows reconcile the Company's beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents balances, the purchases and sales of marketable securities are presented as inflows and outflows. For purposes of internal analysis of the Company's cash position, management does not view these transactions as inflows and outflows from the business, but as cash management transactions. If required, most of such investments could be settled relatively quickly as additional cash resources are needed. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is a helpful measure of the Company's liquidity.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and 2005, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating
 
performance and financial strength. In addition, management and investors use this measure to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, pro forma is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and total QUALCOMM (GAAP) cash flow and QUALCOMM pro forma changes in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are presented herein.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of development, deployment and commercial acceptance of CDMA-based networks and CDMA-based technology, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA, and HSDPA both domestically and internationally; our dependence on major customers and licensees; fluctuations in the demand for CDMA-based products, services or applications; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic loans, investments and transactions the Company has or may pursue; our dependence on third party manufacturers and suppliers; our ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; developments in current and future litigation, the development, deployment and commercial acceptance of the MediaFLO USA network and FLO technology; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in the Company's SEC reports.
QUALCOMM, Mobile Station Modem, MSM, FLO , MediaFLO , MSM6275, OmniTRACS, EutelTRACS, TruckMAIL, OmniExpress, GlobalTRACS, T2 Untethered TrailerTRACS and BREW are trademarks and/or service marks of QUALCOMM Incorporated. CDMA2000 is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


