FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20060313164634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Long-Term Incentive Plan
     At the annual stockholder meeting held on March 7, 2006, the stockholders of QUALCOMM Incorporated (QUALCOMM or the Company) approved the QUALCOMM 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (2006 LTIP). The 2006 LTIP will replace the Company's 2001 Stock Option Plan and the 2001 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan and their predecessor plans and will be the source of shares issued under the Executive Retirement Matching Contribution Plan (ERMCP).
     The purpose of the 2006 LTIP is to advance the interests of the Company and its stockholders by providing employees, non-employee directors, and other eligible participants with stock-based financial incentives to align participants' interests with the interests of the stockholders in the long-term growth and success of the Company.
     The 2006 LTIP permits the award of various forms of incentive awards, including stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance units, deferred compensation awards and other stock-based awards. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has the authority to determine the type of incentive award, as well as the terms and conditions of the award, under the 2006 LTIP.
     As of December 19, 2005, a maximum of 290,284,432 shares of QUALCOMM common stock (subject to adjustment for changes in capital structure, stock dividends, or other similar events) are reserved for use under the 2006 LTIP. Shares of QUALCOMM common stock covered by incentive awards previously granted under the predecessor plans may be reused or added back to the 2006 LTIP under certain circumstances. The 2006 LTIP also contains other limits with respect to the terms of different types of incentive awards and with respect to the number of shares subject to awards that can be granted to an employee during any fiscal year.
     The 2006 LTIP is described in detail in the Company's 2006 proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the annual meeting of stockholders held on March 7, 2006. This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 2006 LTIP filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1. The forms of grant notice and stock option agreement are filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
Grant of Stock Options to Non-Employee Directors
     As indicated above, the 2006 LTIP replaced the Company's 2001 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan. Effective upon stockholder approval of the 2006 LTIP, the Company granted each of the 11 Non-Employee Directors an option to purchase 18,000 shares of QUALCOMM common stock at an exercise price of $47.24 per share, which was equal to the fair market value of the Company's stock on March 7, 2006 (the date of grant). The options vest and become exercisable over a five year period. During the first year, ten percent of the options vest at the six month anniversary of the date of grant and thereafter 1/60th of the total options vest on a monthly basis.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     On March 7, 2006, after due approval by the Board of Directors and receipt of the requisite vote of the Company's stockholders earlier that day, the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment to the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the Amendment) that eliminated the classified Board of Directors (which had provided for directors to serve staggered terms of three years with approximately one-third of the Board being subject to election each year) and eliminated cumulative voting in the election of directors. This description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment filed herewith as Exhibit 99.3.
     In addition, on March 7, 2006, the Board of Directors approved a Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (the New Restated Certificate), which integrated the provisions of the Company's prior Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as it had been amended, including by the Amendment. This description of the New Restated Certificate set forth herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the New Restated Certificate filed herewith as Exhibit 99.4. The New Restated Certificate was filed with the Delaware Secretary of State shortly after the filing of the Amendment.
     Also on March 7, 2006, the Board of Directors adopted Amended and Restated Bylaws (the Restated Bylaws) of the Company, effective after the filing of the Amendment, to supersede and replace the existing Bylaws of the Company. The Restated Bylaws include, among other things, revisions that reflect the changes to the Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the classified Board of Directors and to eliminate cumulative voting. The Restated Bylaws also authorize written consents of the Board of Directors to be effected by electronic transmission. This description of the Restated Bylaws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Restated Bylaws filed herewith as Exhibit 99.5.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
1.
ESTABLISHMENT, PURPOSE AND TERM OF PLAN.
     1.1 The QUALCOMM Incorporated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the ) is hereby adopted December 5, 2005, subject to approval by the stockholders of the Company (the date of such approval, the ). The Plan is a restatement of the Company's 2001 Stock Option Plan. The Plan is also a successor to the Company's 1991 Stock Option Plan and the Company's 2001 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan and its predecessor plan (the ) and the source of shares for the Company's Executive Retirement Matching Contribution Plan .
Establishment
.
"Plan"
"Effective Date"
"
Prior Plans
"
("
ERMCP
")
     1.2 The purpose of the Plan is to advance the interests of the Participating Company Group and its stockholders by providing an incentive to attract and retain the best qualified personnel to perform services for the Participating Company Group, by motivating such persons to contribute to the growth and profitability of the Participating Company Group, by aligning their interests with interests of the Company's stockholders, and by rewarding such persons for their services by tying a significant portion of their total compensation package to the success of the Company. The Plan seeks to achieve this purpose by providing for Awards in the form of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock Awards, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Restricted Stock Units, Deferred Compensation Awards and other Stock-Based Awards as described below. The Plan is also a source for the issuance of shares pursuant to the ERMCP.
Purpose
.
     1.3 . The Plan shall continue in effect until the earlier of its termination by the Board or the date on which all of the shares of Stock available for issuance under the Plan have been issued and all restrictions on such shares under the terms of the Plan and the agreements evidencing Awards granted under the Plan have lapsed. However, Awards shall not be granted later than ten (10) years from the Effective Date. The Company intends that the Plan comply with Section 409A of the Code (including any amendments to or replacements of such section), and the Plan shall be so construed.
Term of Plan
2.
DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION.
     2.1 Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have their respective meanings set forth below:
Definitions.
          (a) means (i) an entity, other than a Parent Corporation, that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediary entities, controls the Company or (ii) an entity, other than a Subsidiary Corporation, that is controlled by the Company directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediary entities. For this purpose, the term "control" (including the term "controlled by") means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the relevant entity, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; or shall have such other meaning assigned such term for the purposes of registration on Form S-8 under the Securities Act.
"Affiliate
"
          (b) means any Option, SAR, Restricted Stock Award, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Restricted Stock Unit or Deferred Compensation Award or other Stock-Based Award granted under the Plan or an award of shares pursuant to the ERMCP.
"Award
"
          (c) means a written agreement between the Company and a Participant setting forth the terms, conditions and restrictions of the Award granted to the Participant.
"Award Agreement"
          (d) ""
Board
means the Board of Directors of the Company.
          (e) shall mean an Ownership Change Event or a series of related Ownership Change Events (collectively, a ) wherein the stockholders of the Company
A
"Change in Control"
"
Transaction
"
 
immediately before the Transaction do not retain immediately after the Transaction, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of the Company's voting stock immediately before the Transaction, direct or indirect beneficial ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company or, in the case of a Transaction described in Section 2.1(z)(iii), the corporation or other business entity to which the assets of the Company were transferred (the ), as the case may be. The Board shall determine in its discretion whether multiple sales or exchanges of the voting securities of the Company or multiple Ownership Change Events are related. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a Change in Control shall not include a Spinoff Transaction.
"
Transferee
"
          (f) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any applicable regulations promulgated thereunder.
Code
          (g) "" means the Compensation Committee or other committee of the Board duly appointed to administer the Plan and having such powers as shall be specified by the Board. If no committee of the Board has been appointed to administer the Plan, the Board shall exercise all of the powers of the Committee granted herein, and, in any event, the Board may in its discretion exercise any or all of such powers. The Committee shall have the exclusive authority to administer the Plan and shall have all of the powers granted herein, including, without limitation, the power to amend or terminate the Plan at any time, subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable limitations imposed by law.
Committee
          (h) "means QUALCOMM Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, or any Successor.
Company
"
          (i) "" means a person engaged to provide consulting or advisory services (other than as an Employee or a member of the Board) to a Participating Company.
Consultant
          (j) "" means an award of Stock Units granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 11 of the Plan.
Deferred Compensation Award
          (k) "" means a member of the Board or of the board of directors of any Participating Company.
Director
          (l) "means the Participant has been determined by the long-term disability insurer of the Participating Company Group as eligible for disability benefits under the long-term disability plan of the Participating Company Group or the Participant has been determined eligible for Supplemental Security Income benefits by the Social Security Administration of the United States of America; provided, however that with respect to Nonemployee Director Awards, "Disability" means the Participant has been determined eligible for supplemental Security Income benefits by the Social Security Administration of the United States of America and also means the inability of the Participant, in the opinion of a qualified physician acceptable to the Company, to perform the duties of the Participant's position with the Participating Company Group because of sickness or other physical or mental incapacity.
Disability
"
          (m) "" means a credit, made at the discretion of the Committee or as otherwise provided by the Plan, to the account of a Participant in an amount equal to the cash dividends paid on one share of Stock for each share of Stock represented by an Award held by such Participant.
Dividend Equivalent
          (n) "" means any person treated as an employee (including an Officer or a member of the Board who is also treated as an employee) in the records of a Participating Company and, with respect to any Incentive Stock Option granted to such person, who is an employee for purposes of Section 422 of the Code; provided, however, that neither service as a member of the Board nor payment of a director's fee shall be sufficient to constitute employment for purposes of the Plan. The Company shall determine in good faith and in the exercise of its discretion whether an individual has become or has ceased to be an Employee and the effective date of such individual's employment or termination of employment, as the case may be. For purposes of an individual's rights, if any, under the Plan as of the time of the Company's determination,
Employee
 
all such determinations by the Company shall be final, binding and conclusive, notwithstanding that the Company or any court of law or governmental agency subsequently makes a contrary determination.
          (o) "" the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
means
          (p) "" means, as of any date, the value of a share of Stock or other property as determined by the Committee, in its discretion, or by the Company, in its discretion, if such determination is expressly allocated to the Company herein, subject to the following:
Fair Market Value
          (i) Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, if, on such date, the Stock is listed on a national or regional securities exchange or market system, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be the closing price of a share of Stock as quoted on such national or regional securities exchange or market system constituting the primary market for the Stock on the last trading day prior to the day of determination, as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such other source as the Company deems reliable.
          (ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its discretion, determine the Fair Market Value on the basis of the closing, high, low or average sale price of a share of Stock or the actual sale price of a share of Stock received by a Participant, on such date, the preceding trading day, the next succeeding trading day or an average determined over a period of trading days; provided, however, that the Fair Market Value shall not be less that the Fair Market Value determined under Section 2.1(p)(i). The Committee may vary its method of determination of the Fair Market Value as provided in this Section for different purposes under the Plan.
          (iii) If, on such date, the Stock is not listed on a national or regional securities exchange or market system, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be as determined by the Committee in good faith without regard to any restriction other than a restriction which, by its terms, will never lapse.
          (q) "" means an Option intended to be (as set forth in the Award Agreement) and which qualifies as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
Incentive Stock Option
          (r) "" means an Officer, a Director or any other person whose transactions in Stock are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
Insider
          (s) "" means any entity in which any Participating Company has an ownership interest and which the Committee shall designate as a Non-Control Affiliate.
Non-Control Affiliate
          (t) "" means a Director who is not an Employee.
Nonemployee Director
          (u) "" means an Option not intended to be (as set forth in the Award Agreement) an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
Nonstatutory Stock Option
          (v) "" means the date on which a Participant has attained the age of sixty (60) years and has completed ten years of continuous Service; provided, however, that with respect to Nonemployee Director Awards, "Normal Retirement Age" means the date on which a Participant has attained the age of seventy (70) years and has completed nine years of continuous Service.
Normal Retirement Age
          (w) "" means any person designated by the Board as an officer of the Company.
Officer
          (x) "" means the right to purchase Stock at a stated price for a specified period of time granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan. An Option may be either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
Option
 
          (y) means the date of expiration of the Option's term as set forth in the Award Agreement.
"Option Expiration Date"
          (z) shall be deemed to have occurred if any of the following occurs with respect to the Company: (i) the direct or indirect sale or exchange in a single or series of related transactions by the stockholders of the Company of more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting stock of the Company; (ii) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is a party; (iii) the sale, exchange, or transfer of all or substantially all, as determined by the Board in its discretion, of the assets of the Company; or (iv) a liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
An
"Ownership Change Event"
          (aa) "" means any present or future "parent corporation" of the Company, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
Parent Corporation
          (bb) "" means any eligible person who has been granted one or more Awards.
Participant
          (cc) "" means the Company or any Parent Corporation, Subsidiary Corporation or Affiliate.
Participating Company
          (dd) "" means, at any point in time, all entities collectively which are then Participating Companies.
Participating Company Group
          (ee) "" means an Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units.
Performance Award
          (ff) "" means, for any Performance Award, a formula or table established by the Committee pursuant to Section 9.3 of the Plan which provides the basis for computing the value of a Performance Award at one or more threshold levels of attainment of the applicable Performance Goal(s) measured as of the end of the applicable Performance Period.
Performance Award Formula
          (gg) "" means a performance goal established by the Committee pursuant to Section 9.3 of the Plan.
Performance Goal
          (hh) "" means a period established by the Committee pursuant to Section 9.3 of the Plan at the end of which one or more Performance Goals are to be measured.
Performance Period
          (ii) "" means a bookkeeping entry representing a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9 of the Plan to receive a payment equal to the value of a Performance Share, as determined by the Committee, based on performance.
Performance Share
          (jj) "" means a bookkeeping entry representing a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9 of the Plan to receive a payment equal to the value of a Performance Unit, as determined by the Committee, based upon performance.
Performance Unit
          (kk) "" means an Award of Restricted Stock.
Restricted Stock Award
          (ll) "or "" means a bookkeeping entry representing a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10 or Section 11 of the Plan, respectively, to receive a share of Stock on a date determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 10 or Section 11, as applicable, and the Participant's Award Agreement.
Restricted Stock Unit"
Stock Unit
          (mm) "" means the period established in accordance with Section 8.4 of the Plan during which shares subject to a Restricted Stock Award are subject to Vesting Conditions.
Restriction Period
 
          (nn) "" means Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, as amended from time to time, or any successor rule or regulation.
Rule 16b-3
          (oo) "" or "" means a bookkeeping entry representing, for each share of Stock subject to such SAR, a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 7 of the Plan to receive payment in any combination of shares of Stock or cash of an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR over the exercise price.
SAR
Stock Appreciation Right
          (pp) "" means Section 162(m) of the Code.
Section 162(m)
          (qq) "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
          (rr) "" means
Service
          (i) a Participant's employment or service with the Participating Company Group, whether in the capacity of an Employee, a Director or a Consultant. A Participant's Service shall not be deemed to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Participant renders Service to the Participating Company Group or a change in the Participating Company for which the Participant renders such Service, provided that there is no interruption or termination of the Participant's Service. Furthermore, only to such extent as may be provided by the Company's leave policy, a Participant's Service with the Participating Company Group shall not be deemed to have terminated if the Participant takes any military leave, sick leave, or other leave of absence approved by the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a leave of absence shall be treated as Service for purposes of vesting only to such extent as may be provided by the Company's leave policy. The Participant's Service shall be deemed to have terminated either upon an actual termination of Service or upon the entity for which the Participant performs Service ceasing to be a Participating Company; except that if the entity for which Participant performs Service is a Subsidiary Corporation and ceases to be a Participating Company as a result of the distribution of the voting stock of such Subsidiary Corporation to the shareholders of the Company, Service shall not be deemed to have terminated as a result of such distribution. Subject to the foregoing, the Company, in its discretion, shall determine whether the Participant's Service has terminated and the effective date of such termination.
          (ii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, a Participant's Service shall not be deemed to have terminated merely because the Participating Company for which the Participant renders Service ceases to be a member of the Participating Company Group by reason of a Spinoff Transaction, nor shall Service be deemed to have terminated upon resumption of Service from the Spinoff Company to a Participating Company. For all purposes under this Plan, a Participant's Service shall include Service, whether in the capacity of an Employee, Director or a Consultant, for the Spinoff Company provided a Participant was employed by the Participating Company Group immediately prior to the Spinoff Transaction. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company's auditors determine that the provisions or operation of the preceding two sentences would cause the Company to incur a compensation expense and provided further that in the absence of the preceding two sentences no such compensation expense would be incurred, then the two preceding sentences shall be without force or effect, and the vesting and exercisability of each outstanding Option and any shares acquired upon the exercise thereof shall be determined under any other applicable provision of the Plan or the Option Agreement evidencing such Option.
          (ss) means a Participating Company which ceases to be such as a result of a Spinoff Transaction.
"Spinoff Company"
          (tt) means a transaction in which the voting stock of an entity in the Participating Company Group is distributed to the shareholders of a parent corporation as defined by Section 424(e) of the Code, of such entity.
"Spinoff Transaction"
          (uu) "" means the common stock of the Company, as adjusted from time to time in accordance with Section 4.2 of the Plan.
Stock
 
          (vv) "" means any award that is valued in whole or in part by reference to, or is otherwise based on, the Stock, including dividends on the Stock, but not limited to those Awards described in Sections 6 through 11 of the Plan.
Stock-Based Awards
          (ww) "" means any present or future "subsidiary corporation" of the Company, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
Subsidiary Corporation
          (xx) means a corporation into or with which the Company is merged or consolidated or which acquires all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and which is designated by the Board as a Successor for purposes of the Plan.
"Successor"
          (yy) "" means a Participant who, at the time an Option is granted to the Participant, owns stock possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of a Participating Company (other than an Affiliate) within the meaning of Section 422(b)(6) of the Code.
Ten Percent Owner
          (zz) "" mean those conditions established in accordance with Section 8.4 or Section 10.2 of the Plan prior to the satisfaction of which shares subject to a Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award, respectively, remain subject to forfeiture or a repurchase option in favor of the Company upon the Participant's termination of Service.
Vesting Conditions
     2.2 . Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of the Plan. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Use of the term "or" is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
Construction
3.
ADMINISTRATION.
     3.1 . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. All questions of interpretation of the Plan or of any Award shall be determined by the Committee, and such determinations shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Plan or such Award.
Administration by the Committee
     3.2 . Any Officer shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, determination or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the Officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, determination or election.
Authority of Officers
     3.3 With respect to participation by Insiders in the Plan, at any time that any class of equity security of the Company is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, the Plan shall be administered in compliance with the requirements, if any, of Rule 16b-3.
Administration with Respect to Insiders.
     3.4 While the Company is a "publicly held corporation" within the meaning of Section 162(m), the Board may establish a Committee of "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) to approve the grant of any Award which might reasonably be anticipated to result in the payment of employee remuneration that would otherwise exceed the limit on employee remuneration deductible for income tax purposes pursuant to Section 162(m).
Committee Complying with Section 
162(m)
.
     3.5 In addition to any other powers set forth in the Plan and subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have the full and final power and authority, in its discretion:
Powers of the Committee
.
          (a) to determine the persons to whom, and the time or times at which, Awards shall be granted and the number of shares of Stock or units to be subject to each Award;
          (b) to determine the type of Award granted and to designate Options as Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options;
 
          (c) to determine the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock or other property;
          (d) to determine the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to each Award (which need not be identical) and any shares acquired pursuant thereto, including, without limitation, (i) the exercise or purchase price of shares purchased pursuant to any Award, (ii) the method of payment for shares purchased pursuant to any Award, (iii) the method for satisfaction of any tax withholding obligation arising in connection with Award, including by the withholding or delivery of shares of Stock, (iv) the timing, terms and conditions of the exercisability or vesting of any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto, (v) the Performance Award Formula and Performance Goals applicable to any Award and the extent to which such Performance Goals have been attained, (vi) the time of the expiration of any Award, (vii) the effect of the Participant's termination of Service on any of the foregoing, and (viii) all other terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to any Award or shares acquired pursuant thereto not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan;
          (e) to determine whether an Award will be settled in shares of Stock, cash, or in any combination thereof;
          (f) to approve one or more forms of Award Agreement;
          (g) to amend, modify, extend, cancel or renew any Award or to waive any restrictions or conditions applicable to any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto;
          (h) to accelerate, continue, extend or defer the exercisability or vesting of any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto, including with respect to the period following a Participant's termination of Service;
          (i) without the consent of the affected Participant and notwithstanding the provisions of any Award Agreement to the contrary, to unilaterally substitute at any time a Stock Appreciation Right providing for settlement solely in shares of Stock in place of any outstanding Option, provided that such Stock Appreciation Right covers the same number of shares of Stock and provides for the same exercise price (subject in each case to adjustment in accordance with Section 4.2) as the replaced Option and otherwise provides substantially equivalent terms and conditions as the replaced Option, as determined by the Committee;
          (j) to prescribe, amend or rescind rules, guidelines and policies relating to the Plan, or to adopt sub-plans or supplements to, or alternative versions of, the Plan, including, without limitation, as the Committee deems necessary or desirable to comply with the laws or regulations of or to accommodate the tax policy, accounting principles or custom of, foreign jurisdictions whose citizens may be granted Awards;
          (k) to correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award Agreement and to make all other determinations and take such other actions with respect to the Plan or any Award as the Committee may deem advisable to the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan or applicable law; and
          (l) to delegate to any proper Officer the authority to grant one or more Awards, without further approval of the Committee, to any person eligible pursuant to Section 5, other than a person who, at the time of such grant, is an Insider; provided, however, that (i) the exercise price per share of each such Option shall be equal to the Fair Market Value per share of the Stock on the effective date of grant, and (ii) each such Award shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the appropriate standard form of Award Agreement approved by the Committee and shall conform to the provisions of the Plan and such other guidelines as shall be established from time to time by the Committee.
     3.6 . In addition to such other rights of indemnification as they may have as members of the Board or the Committee or as officers or employees of the Participating Company Group, members of the Board or the Committee and any officers or employees of the Participating Company Group to whom authority to act for the Board, the Committee or the Company is delegated shall be
Indemnification
 
indemnified by the Company against all reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees, actually and necessarily incurred in connection with the defense of any action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with any appeal therein, to which they or any of them may be a party by reason of any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan, or any right granted hereunder, and against all amounts paid by them in settlement thereof (provided such settlement is approved by independent legal counsel selected by the Company) or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding, except in relation to matters as to which it shall be adjudged in such action, suit or proceeding that such person is liable for gross negligence, bad faith or intentional misconduct in duties; provided, however, that within sixty (60) days after the institution of such action, suit or proceeding, such person shall offer to the Company, in writing, the opportunity at its own expense to handle and defend the same.
     3.7 . Any dispute or claim concerning any Awards granted (or not granted) pursuant to this Plan and any other disputes or claims relating to or arising out of the Plan shall be fully, finally and exclusively resolved by binding arbitration conducted pursuant to the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association in San Diego, California. By accepting an Award, Participants and the Company waive their respective rights to have any such disputes or claims tried by a judge or jury.
Arbitration
     3.8 Without the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the shares of Stock cast in person or by proxy at a meeting of the stockholders of the Company at which a quorum representing a majority of all outstanding shares of Stock is present or represented by proxy, the Committee shall not approve a program providing for either (a) the cancellation of outstanding Options or SARs and the grant in substitution therefore of new Options or SARs having a lower exercise price or (b) the amendment of outstanding Options or SARs to reduce the exercise price thereof. This paragraph shall not be construed to apply to the issuance or assumption of an Award in a transaction to which Code section 424(a) applies, within the meaning of Section 424 of the Code.
Repricing Prohibited.
4.
SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN.
     4.1 Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan shall be 226,239,821 and shall consist of authorized but unissued or reacquired shares of Stock or any combination thereof. The share reserve, determined at any time, shall be reduced by the number of shares subject to Prior Plan Options and shares issued under the ERMCP. Any shares of Stock subject to Prior Plan Option shall again be available for issuance under the Plan only if the Prior Plan Option is terminated or cancelled but not if it expires. Any shares of Stock that are subject to Awards of Options or SARs without a related Dividend Equivalent shall be counted against the limit as one (1) share for every one (1) share granted. Any shares of Stock that are subject to Awards (other than Options or SARs without a related Dividend Equivalent) shall be counted against this limit as two (2) shares for every one (1) share granted. If an outstanding Award, excluding Prior Plan Options, for any reason expires or is terminated or canceled without having been exercised or settled in full, or if shares of Stock acquired pursuant to an Award subject to forfeiture or repurchase, and shares issued under the ERMCP, are forfeited to the Company, the shares of Stock allocable to the terminated portion of such Award or such forfeited shares of Stock shall again be available for issuance under the Plan. Any shares of Stock that again become available for shares pursuant to this Section 4.1 shall be added back as one (1) share if such shares were subject to Options without a Dividend Equivalent or SARs granted under the Plan or under a Prior Plan and as two (2) shares if such shares were subject to Awards (other than Options without a Dividend Equivalent or SARs) granted under the Plan or a Prior Plan. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein: (i) shares of Stock tendered in payment of an Option shall not be added to the aggregate plan limit described above; (ii) shares of Stock withheld by the Company to satisfy any tax withholding obligation shall not be added to the aggregate plan limit described above; (iii) shares of Stock that are repurchased by the Company with Option proceeds shall not be added to the aggregate plan limit described above; and (iv) all shares of Stock covered by an SAR, to the extent that it is exercised and settled in shares of Stock, and whether or not shares of Stock are actually issued to the Participant upon exercise of the SAR, shall be considered issued or transferred pursuant to the Plan.
Maximum Number of Shares Issuable.
     4.2 Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, in the event of any change in the Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation,
Adjustments for Changes in Capital Structure
.
 
recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of payment of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company in a form other than Stock (excepting normal cash dividends) that has a material effect on the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the number and kind of shares subject to the Plan and to any outstanding Awards, in the Award limits set forth in Section 5.4, and in connection with the ERMCP, and in the exercise or purchase price per share under any outstanding Award in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants' rights under the Plan. For purposes of the foregoing, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as "effected without receipt of consideration by the Company." If a majority of the shares which are of the same class as the shares that are subject to outstanding Awards are exchanged for, converted into, or otherwise become (whether or not pursuant to an Ownership Change Event) shares of another corporation (the "), the Committee may unilaterally amend the outstanding Options to provide that such Options are exercisable for New Shares. In the event of any such amendment, the number of shares subject to, and the exercise price per share of, the outstanding Awards shall be adjusted in a fair and equitable manner as determined by the Board, in its discretion. Any fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section 4.2 shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number. The Committee in its sole discretion, may also make such adjustments in the terms of any Award to reflect, or related to, such changes in the capital structure of the Company or distributions as it deems appropriate, including modification of Performance Goals, Performance Award Formulas and Performance Periods. The adjustments determined by the Committee pursuant to this Section 4.2 shall be final, binding and conclusive.
New Shares"
5.
ELIGIBILITY AND AWARD LIMITATIONS.
     5.1 Awards may be granted only to Employees, Consultants and Directors. For purposes of the foregoing sentence, "Employees," "Consultants"and "Directors" shall include prospective Employees, prospective Consultants and prospective Directors to whom Awards are offered to be granted in connection with written offers of an employment or other service relationship with the Participating Company Group; provided, however, that no Stock subject to any such Award shall vest, become exercisable or be issued prior to the date on which such person commences Service.
Persons Eligible for Awards.
     5.2 . Awards other than Nonemployee Director Awards are granted solely at the discretion of the Committee. Eligible persons may be granted more than one Award. However, eligibility in accordance with this Section shall not entitle any person to be granted an Award, or, having been granted an Award, to be granted an additional Award.
Participation
     5.3 Incentive Stock Option Limitations.
          (a) An Incentive Stock Option may be granted only to a person who, on the effective date of grant, is an Employee of the Company, a Parent Corporation or a Subsidiary Corporation (each being an ""). Any person who is not an Employee of an ISO-Qualifying Corporation on the effective date of the grant of an Option to such person may be granted only a Nonstatutory Stock Option. An Incentive Stock Option granted to a prospective Employee upon the condition that such person become an Employee of an ISO-Qualifying Corporation shall be deemed granted effective on the date such person commences Service with an ISO-Qualifying Corporation, with an exercise price determined as of such date in accordance with Section 6.1.
Persons Eligible
.
ISO-Qualifying Corporation
          (b) To the extent that options designated as Incentive Stock Options (granted under all stock option plans of the Participating Company Group, including the Plan) become exercisable by a Participant for the first time during any calendar year for stock having a Fair Market Value greater than One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000), the portion of such options which exceeds such amount shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options. For purposes of this Section, options designated as Incentive Stock Options shall be taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the Fair Market Value of stock shall be determined as of the time the option with respect to such stock is granted. If the Code is amended to provide for a limitation different from that set forth in this Section, such different limitation shall be deemed incorporated herein effective as of the date and with respect to such Options as required or permitted by such amendment to the Code. If an Option is treated as an Incentive Stock Option in part and as a Nonstatutory Stock Option in part by reason of the limitation set forth in this Section, the
Fair Market Value Limitation
.
 
Participant may designate which portion of such Option the Participant is exercising. In the absence of such designation, the Participant shall be deemed to have exercised the Incentive Stock Option portion of the Option first. Upon exercise, shares issued pursuant to each such portion shall be separately identified.
     5.4 .
Award Limits
          (a) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan pursuant to the exercise of Incentive Stock Options shall not exceed 226,239,821 the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan pursuant to all Awards other than Incentive Stock Options shall be the number of shares determined in accordance with Section 4.1, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2 and further subject to the limitation set forth in Section 5.4(b) below.
Maximum Number of Shares Issuable Pursuant to Incentive Stock Options
.
          (b) Except for shares granted under the Executive Retirement Matching Contribution Plan, any Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Unit Awards and Performance Awards () which vest on the basis of the Participant's continued Service shall not provide for vesting which is any more rapid than annual pro rata vesting over a three (3) year period and any Full Value Awards which vest upon the attainment of Performance Goals shall provide for a Performance Period of at least twelve (12) months. There shall be no acceleration of vesting of such Full Value Awards except in connection with death, Disability or a Change in Control.
Limits on Full Value Awards.
"Full Value Awards"
          (c) The following limits shall apply to the grant of any Award if, at the time of grant, the Company is a "publicly held corporation" within the meaning of Section 162(m).
Section 162(m) Award Limits.
               (i) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2, no Employee shall be granted within any fiscal year of the Company one or more Options or Freestanding SARs which in the aggregate are for more than 3,000,000 shares of Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan.
Options and SARs.
               (ii) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2, no Employee shall be granted within any fiscal year of the Company one or more Restricted Stock Awards or Restricted Stock Unit Awards, subject to Vesting Conditions based on the attainment of Performance Goals, for more than 1,000,000 shares of Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan.
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
               (iii) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2, no Employee shall be granted (1) Performance Shares which could result in such Employee receiving more than 1,000,000 shares of Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan for each full fiscal year of the Company contained in the Performance Period for such Award, or (2) Performance Units which could result in such Employee receiving more than $1,000,000 for each full fiscal year of the Company contained in the Performance Period for such Award. No Participant may be granted more than one Performance Award for the same Performance Period.
Performance Awards.
6.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS
.
     Options shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock covered thereby, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Option or purported Option shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Options may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
     6.1 The exercise price for each Option shall be established in the discretion of the Committee; provided, however, that (a) the exercise price per share shall be not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the Option and (b) no Incentive Stock
Exercise Price
.
 
Option granted to a Ten Percent Owner shall have an exercise price per share less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the Option. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option (whether an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option) may be granted with an exercise price lower than the minimum exercise price set forth above if such Option is granted pursuant to an assumption or substitution for another option in a manner qualifying under the provisions of Section 424(a) of the Code.
     6.2
Exercisability and Term of Options
.
          (a) . Options shall be exercisable at such time or times, or upon such event or events, and subject to such terms, conditions, performance criteria and restrictions as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option; provided, however, that (a) no Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years after the effective date of grant of such Option, (b) no Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Owner shall be exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years after the effective date of grant of such Option, (c) no Option shall become fully vested in a period of less than three (3) years from the date of grant, other than in connection with a termination of Service or a Change in Control or in the case of an Option granted to a Nonemployee Director, and (d) no Option offered or be granted to a prospective Employee, prospective Consultant or prospective Director may become exercisable prior to the date on which such person commences Service. Subject to the foregoing, unless otherwise specified by the Committee in the grant of an Option, any Option granted hereunder shall terminate ten (10) years after the effective date of grant of the Option, unless earlier terminated in accordance with its provisions, or the terms of the Plan.
Option Vesting and Exercisability
          (b) Each Participant is responsible for taking any and all actions as may be required to exercise any Option in a timely manner, and for properly executing any documents as may be required for the exercise of an Option in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be established from time to time. By signing an Option Agreement each Participant acknowledges that information regarding the procedures and requirements for the exercise of any Option is available upon such Participant's request. The Company shall have no duty or obligation to notify any Participant of the expiration date of any Option.
Participant Responsibility for Exercise of Option
.
     6.3
Payment of Exercise Price.
          (a) Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the exercise price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased pursuant to any Option shall be made (i) in cash, by check or in cash equivalent, (ii) by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock owned by the Participant having a Fair Market Value not less than the exercise price, (iii) provided that the Participant is an Employee, and not an Officer or Director (unless otherwise not prohibited by law, including, without limitation, any regulation promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) and in the Company's sole and absolute discretion at the time the Option is exercised, by delivery of the Participant's promissory note in a form approved by the Company for the aggregate exercise price, provided that, if the Company is incorporated in the State of Delaware, the Participant shall pay in cash that portion of the aggregate exercise price not less than the par value of the shares being acquired, (iv) by such other consideration as may be approved by the Committee from time to time to the extent permitted by applicable law, or (v) by any combination thereof. The Committee may at any time or from time to time grant Options which do not permit all of the foregoing forms of consideration to be used in payment of the exercise price or which otherwise restrict one or more forms of consideration.
Forms of Consideration Authorized.
          (b)
Limitations on Forms of Consideration.
               (i) Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock to the extent such tender or attestation would constitute a violation of the provisions of any law, regulation or agreement restricting the redemption of the Company's stock.
Tender of Stock.
 
               (ii) No promissory note shall be permitted if the exercise of an Option using a promissory note would be a violation of any law. Any permitted promissory note shall be on such terms as the Committee shall determine. The Committee shall have the authority to permit or require the Participant to secure any promissory note used to exercise an Option with the shares of Stock acquired upon the exercise of the Option or with other collateral acceptable to the Company. Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, if the Company at any time is subject to the regulations promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other governmental entity affecting the extension of credit in connection with the Company's securities, any promissory note shall comply with such applicable regulations, and the Participant shall pay the unpaid principal and accrued interest, if any, to the extent necessary to comply with such applicable regulations.
Payment by Promissory Note.
     6.4
Effect of Termination of Service.
          (a) Subject to earlier termination of the Option as otherwise provided herein and unless otherwise provided by the Committee, an Option shall be exercisable after a Participant's termination of Service only during the applicable time periods provided in the Award Agreement.
Option Exercisability.
          (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless the Committee provides otherwise in the Award Agreement, if the exercise of an Option within the applicable time periods is prevented by the provisions of Section 14 below, the Option shall remain exercisable until three (3) months (or such longer period of time as determined by the Committee, in its discretion) after the date the Participant is notified by the Company that the Option is exercisable, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law.
          (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a sale within the applicable time periods of shares acquired upon the exercise of the Option would subject the Participant to suit under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Option shall remain exercisable until the earliest to occur of (i) the tenth (10th) day following the date on which a sale of such shares by the Participant would no longer be subject to such suit, (ii) the one hundred and ninetieth (190th) day after the Participant's termination of Service, or (iii) the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Participant Subject to Section 16(b).
     6.5 During the lifetime of the Participant, an Option shall be exercisable only by the Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative. Prior to the issuance of shares of Stock upon the exercise of an Option, the Option shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent permitted by the Committee, in its discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option, a Nonstatutory Stock Option shall be assignable or transferable subject to the applicable limitations, if any, described in the General Instructions to Form S-8 Registration Statement under the Securities Act.
Transferability of Options.
7.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS.
     Stock Appreciation Rights shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No SAR or purported SAR shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing SARs may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
     7.1 . SARs may be granted in tandem with all or any portion of a related Option (a ) or may be granted independently of any Option (a ). A Tandem SAR may be granted either concurrently with the grant of the related Option or at any time thereafter prior to the complete exercise, termination, expiration or cancellation of such related Option.
Types of SARs Authorized
"Tandem SAR
"
"
Freestanding SAR
"
 
     7.2 . The exercise price for each SAR shall be established in the discretion of the Committee; provided, however, that (a) the exercise price per share subject to a Tandem SAR shall be the exercise price per share under the related Option and (b) the exercise price per share subject to a Freestanding SAR shall be not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the SAR.
Exercise Price
     7.3 .
Exercisability and Term of SARs
          (a) Tandem SARs shall be exercisable only at the time and to the extent, and only to the extent, that the related Option is exercisable, subject to such provisions as the Committee may specify where the Tandem SAR is granted with respect to less than the full number of shares of Stock subject to the related Option.
Tandem SARs.
          (b) Freestanding SARs shall be exercisable at such time or times, or upon such event or events, and subject to such terms, conditions, performance criteria and restrictions as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such SAR; provided, however, that no Freestanding SAR shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years after the effective date of grant of such SAR.
Freestanding SARs.
No SAR shall become fully vested in a period of less than three (3) years from the date of grant, other than in connection with a termination of Service or a Change in Control or the case of an SAR granted to a Nonemployee Director.
     7.4 . If, on the date on which an SAR would otherwise terminate or expire, the SAR by its terms remains exercisable immediately prior to such termination or expiration and, if so exercised, would result in a payment to the holder of such SAR, then any portion of such SAR which has not previously been exercised shall automatically be deemed to be exercised as of such date with respect to such portion.
Deemed Exercise of SARs
     7.5 Subject to earlier termination of the SAR as otherwise provided herein and unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the grant of an SAR and set forth in the Award Agreement, an SAR shall be exercisable after a Participant's termination of Service only as provided in the Award Agreement.
Effect of Termination of Service.
     7.6 . During the lifetime of the Participant, an SAR shall be exercisable only by the Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative. Prior to the exercise of an SAR, the SAR shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability of SARs
8.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS.
     Restricted Stock Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Restricted Stock Award or purported Restricted Stock Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Restricted Stock Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
     8.1 Restricted Stock Awards may or may not require the payment of cash compensation for the stock. Restricted Stock Awards may be granted upon such conditions as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals described in Section 9.4. If either the grant of a Restricted Stock Award or the lapsing of the Restriction Period is to be contingent upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals, the Committee shall follow procedures substantially equivalent to those set forth in Sections 9.3 through 9.5(a).
Types of Restricted Stock Awards Authorized.
 
     8.2 . The purchase price, if any, for shares of Stock issuable under each Restricted Stock Award and the means of payment shall be established by the Committee in its discretion.
Purchase Price
     8.3 A Restricted Stock Award requiring the payment of cash consideration shall be exercisable within a period established by the Committee; provided, however, that no Restricted Stock Award granted to a prospective Employee, prospective Consultant or prospective Director may become exercisable prior to the date on which such person commences Service.
Purchase Period.
     8.4 . Shares issued pursuant to any Restricted Stock Award may or may not be made subject to Vesting Conditions based upon the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance criteria, including, without limitation, Performance Goals as described in Section 9.4, as shall be established by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award. During any Restriction Period in which shares acquired pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award remain subject to Vesting Conditions, such shares may not be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise disposed of other than as provided in the Award Agreement or as provided in Section 8.7. Upon request by the Company, each Participant shall execute any agreement evidencing such transfer restrictions prior to the receipt of shares of Stock hereunder.
Vesting and Restrictions on Transfer
     8.5 Except as provided in this Section, Section 8.4 and any Award Agreement, during the Restriction Period applicable to shares subject to a Restricted Stock Award, the Participant shall have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company holding shares of Stock, including the right to vote such shares and to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to such shares. However, in the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.2, any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant is entitled by reason of the Participant's Restricted Stock Award shall be immediately subject to the same Vesting Conditions as the shares subject to the Restricted Stock Award with respect to which such dividends or distributions were paid or adjustments were made.
Voting Rights; Dividends and Distributions.
     8.6 . Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the grant of a Restricted Stock Award and set forth in the Award Agreement, if a Participant's Service terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary (including the Participant's death or disability), then the Participant shall forfeit to the Company any shares acquired by the Participant pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participant's termination of Service in exchange for the payment of the purchase price, if any, paid by the Participant. The Company shall have the right to assign at any time any repurchase right it may have, whether or not such right is then exercisable, to one or more persons as may be selected by the Company.
Effect of Termination of Service
     8.7 . Prior to the issuance of shares of Stock pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award, rights to acquire such shares shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to a Restricted Stock Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability of Restricted Stock Award Rights
9.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERFORMANCE AWARDS.
     Performance Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Performance Award or purported Performance Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Performance Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
     9.1 Performance Awards may be in the form of either Performance Shares or Performance Units. Each Award Agreement evidencing a Performance Award shall specify the number of Performance Shares or Performance Units subject thereto, the
Types of Performance Awards Authorized.
 
Performance Award Formula, the Performance Goal(s) and Performance Period applicable to the Award, and the other terms, conditions and restrictions of the Award.
     9.2 Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in granting a Performance Award, each Performance Share shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Stock, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2, on the effective date of grant of the Performance Share. Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value determined by the Committee. The final value payable to the Participant in settlement of a Performance Award determined on the basis of the applicable Performance Award Formula will depend on the extent to which Performance Goals established by the Committee are attained within the applicable Performance Period established by the Committee.
Initial Value of Performance Shares and Performance Units.
     9.3 . In granting each Performance Award, the Committee shall establish in writing the applicable Performance Period, Performance Award Formula and one or more Performance Goals which, when measured at the end of the Performance Period, shall determine on the basis of the Performance Award Formula the final value of the Performance Award to be paid to the Participant. To the extent compliance with the requirements under Section 162(m) with respect to "performance-based compensation" is desired, the Committee shall establish the Performance Goal(s) and Performance Award Formula applicable to each Performance Award no later than the earlier of (a) the date ninety (90) days after the commencement of the applicable Performance Period or (b) the date on which 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed, and, in any event, at a time when the outcome of the Performance Goals remains substantially uncertain. Once established, the Performance Goals and Performance Award Formula shall not be changed during the Performance Period. The Company shall notify each Participant granted a Performance Award of the terms of such Award, including the Performance Period, Performance Goal(s) and Performance Award Formula.
Establishment of Performance Period, Performance Goals and Performance Award Formula
     9.4 Performance Goals shall be established by the Committee on the basis of targets to be attained () with respect to one or more measures of business or financial performance (each, a ), subject to the following:
Measurement of Performance Goals.
"
Performance Targets
"
"
Performance Measure
"
          (a) Performance Measures shall have the same meanings as used in the Company's financial statements, or, if such terms are not used in the Company's financial statements, they shall have the meaning applied pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, or as used generally in the Company's industry. Performance Measures shall be calculated with respect to the Company and each Subsidiary Corporation consolidated therewith for financial reporting purposes or such division or other business unit as may be selected by the Committee. For purposes of the Plan, the Performance Measures applicable to a Performance Award shall be calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but prior to the accrual or payment of any Performance Award for the same Performance Period and excluding the effect (whether positive or negative) of any change in accounting standards or any extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring item, as determined by the Committee, occurring after the establishment of the Performance Goals applicable to the Performance Award. Each such adjustment, if any, shall be made solely for the purpose of providing a consistent basis from period to period for the calculation of Performance Measures in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the Participant's rights with respect to a Performance Award. Performance Measures may be one or more of the following, as determined by the Committee: (i) sales revenue; (ii) gross margin; (iii) operating margin; (iv) operating income; (v) pre-tax profit; (vi) earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization; (vii) net income; (viii) expenses; (ix) the market price of the Stock; (x) earnings per share; (xi) return on stockholder equity; (xii) return on capital; (xiii) return on net assets; (xiv) economic value added; (xv) market share; (xvi) customer service; (xvii) customer satisfaction; (xviii) safety; (xix) total stockholder return; (xx) free cash flow; or (xxi) such other measures as determined by the Committee consistent with this Section 9.4(a).
Performance Measures
.
          (b) Performance Targets may include a minimum, maximum, target level and intermediate levels of performance, with the final value of a Performance Award determined under the applicable Performance Award Formula by the level attained during the applicable Performance Period. A Performance Target may be stated as an absolute value or as a value determined relative to a standard selected by the Committee
Performance Targets.
.
 
     9.5
Settlement of Performance Awards.
          (a) As soon as practicable following the completion of the Performance Period applicable to a Performance Award, the Committee shall certify in writing the extent to which the applicable Performance Goals have been attained and the resulting final value of the Award earned by the Participant and to be paid upon its settlement in accordance with the applicable Performance Award Formula.
Determination of Final Value.
          (b) In its discretion, the Committee may, either at the time it grants a Performance Award or at any time thereafter, provide for the positive or negative adjustment of the Performance Award Formula applicable to a Performance Award that is not intended to constitute "qualified performance based compensation" to a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) (a "") to reflect such Participant's individual performance in his or her position with the Company or such other factors as the Committee may determine. With respect to a Performance Award intended to constitute qualified performance-based compensation to a Covered Employee, the Committee shall have the discretion to reduce some or all of the value of the Performance Award that would otherwise be paid to the Covered Employee upon its settlement notwithstanding the attainment of any Performance Goal and the resulting value of the Performance Award determined in accordance with the Performance Award Formula.
Discretionary Adjustment of Award Formula.
Covered Employee
          (c) As soon as practicable following the Committee's determination and certification in accordance with Sections 9.5(a) and (b), payment shall be made to each eligible Participant (or such Participant's legal representative or other person who acquired the right to receive such payment by reason of the Participant's death) of the final value of the Participant's Performance Award. Payment of such amount shall be made in cash, shares of Stock, or a combination thereof as determined by the Committee.
Payment in Settlement of Performance Awards.
     9.6 . Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Performance Share Awards until the date of the issuance of such shares, if any (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). However, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Performance Share Award that the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalents with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock having a record date prior to the date on which the Performance Shares are settled or forfeited. Such Dividend Equivalents, if any, shall be credited to the Participant in the form of additional whole Performance Shares as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock. The number of additional Performance Shares (rounded to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (a) the amount of cash dividends paid on such date with respect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Performance Shares previously credited to the Participant by (b) the per share of Stock on such date. Dividend Equivalents may be paid currently or may be accumulated and paid to the extent that Performance Shares become nonforfeitable, as determined by the Committee. Settlement of Dividend Equivalents may be made in cash, shares of Stock, or a combination thereof as determined by the Committee, and may be paid on the same basis as settlement of the related Performance Share as provided in Section 9.5. Dividend Equivalents shall not be paid with respect to Performance Units. In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.2, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participant's Performance Share Award so that it represents the right to receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant would entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Performance Share Award, and all such new, substituted or additional securities or other property shall be immediately subject to the same Performance Goals as are applicable to the Award.
Voting Rights; Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions
Fair Market Value
     9.7 . Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the grant of a Performance Award and set forth in the Award Agreement, the effect of a Participant's termination of Service on the Performance Award shall be as follows:
Effect of Termination of Service
 
          (a) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the death or Disability of the Participant before the completion of the Performance Period applicable to the Performance Award, the final value of the Participant's Performance Award shall be determined by the extent to which the applicable Performance Goals have been attained with respect to the entire Performance Period and shall be prorated based on the number of months of the Participant's Service during the Performance Period. Payment shall be made following the end of the Performance Period in any manner permitted by Section 9.5.
Death or Disability.
          (b) If the Participant's Service terminates for any reason except death or Disability before the completion of the Performance Period applicable to the Performance Award, such Award shall be forfeited in its entirety; provided, however, that in the event of an involuntary termination of the Participant's Service, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may waive the automatic forfeiture of all or any portion of any such Award.
Other Termination of Service.
     9.8 Prior to settlement in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, no Performance Award shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to a Performance Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability of Performance Awards.
10.
.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARDS
     Restricted Stock Unit Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of Restricted Stock Units subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Restricted Stock Unit Award or purported Restricted Stock Unit Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Restricted Stock Units may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
     10.1 Restricted Stock Unit Awards may be granted upon such conditions as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals described in Section 9.4. If either the grant of a Restricted Stock Unit Award or the Vesting Conditions with respect to such Award is to be contingent upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals, the Committee shall follow procedures substantially equivalent to those set forth in Sections 9.3 through 9.5(a).
Grant of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
     10.2 Restricted Stock Units may or may not be made subject to Vesting Conditions based upon the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance criteria, including, without limitation, Performance Goals as described in Section 9.4, as shall be established by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award.
Vesting.
     10.3 . Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Restricted Stock Units until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). However, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Restricted Stock Unit Award that the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalents with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock having a record date prior to the date on which Restricted Stock Units held by such Participant are settled. Such Dividend Equivalents, if any, shall be paid by crediting the Participant with additional whole Restricted Stock Units as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock. The number of additional Restricted Stock Units (rounded to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (a) the amount of cash dividends paid on such date with respect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Restricted Stock Units previously credited to the Participant by (b) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on such date. Such additional Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the same terms and conditions and shall be settled in the same manner and at the same time (or as soon thereafter as practicable) as the Restricted Stock Units originally subject to the Restricted Stock Unit Award. In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or any other adjustment made upon a change in
Voting Rights, Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions
 
the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.2, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participant's Restricted Stock Unit Award so that it represents the right to receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant would entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Award, and all such new, substituted or additional securities or other property shall be immediately subject to the same Vesting Conditions as are applicable to the Award.
     10.4 Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the grant of a Restricted Stock Unit Award and set forth in the Award Agreement, if a Participant's Service terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary (including the Participant's death or disability), then the Participant shall forfeit to the Company any Restricted Stock Units pursuant to the Award which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participant's termination of Service.
Effect of Termination of Service.
     10.5 The Company shall issue to a Participant on the date on which Restricted Stock Units subject to the Participant's Restricted Stock Unit Award vest or on such other date determined by the Committee, in its discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement one (1) share of Stock (and/or any other new, substituted or additional securities or other property pursuant to an adjustment described in Section 10.3) for each Restricted Stock Unit then becoming vested or otherwise to be settled on such date, subject to the withholding of applicable taxes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if permitted by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement, the Participant may elect in accordance with terms specified in the Award Agreement to defer receipt of all or any portion of the shares of Stock or other property otherwise issuable to the Participant pursuant to this Section.
Settlement of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
     10.6 Prior to the issuance of shares of Stock in settlement of a Restricted Stock Unit Award, the Award shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to a Restricted Stock Unit Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
11.
DEFERRED COMPENSATION AWARDS.
     11.1 . This Section 11 shall not be effective unless and until the Committee determines to establish a program pursuant to this Section. The Committee, in its discretion and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, may establish one or more programs pursuant to the Plan under which:
Establishment of Deferred Compensation Award Programs
          (a) Participants designated by the Committee who are Insiders or otherwise among a select group of highly compensated Employees may irrevocably elect, prior to a date specified by the Committee, to reduce such Participant's compensation otherwise payable in cash (subject to any minimum or maximum reductions imposed by the Committee) and to be granted automatically at such time or times as specified by the Committee one or more Awards of Stock Units with respect to such numbers of shares of Stock as determined in accordance with the rules of the program established by the Committee and having such other terms and conditions as established by the Committee.
          (b) Participants designated by the Committee who are Insiders or otherwise among a select group of highly compensated Employees may irrevocably elect, prior to a date specified by the Committee, to be granted automatically an Award of Stock Units with respect to such number of shares of Stock and upon such other terms and conditions as established by the Committee in lieu of:
               (i) 
shares of Stock otherwise issuable to such Participant upon the exercise of an Option;
               (ii) 
cash or shares of Stock otherwise issuable to such Participant upon the exercise of an SAR; or
 
               (iii) 
cash or shares of Stock otherwise issuable to such Participant upon the settlement of a Performance Award or Performance Unit.
     11.2 Deferred Compensation Awards granted pursuant to this Section 11 shall be evidenced by Award Agreements in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No such Deferred Compensation Award or purported Deferred Compensation Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Deferred Compensation Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
Terms and Conditions of Deferred Compensation Awards.
          (a) Deferred Compensation Awards shall not be subject to any vesting conditions.
Vesting Conditions
.
          (b)
Terms and Conditions of Stock Units
.
               (i) Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Stock Units until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). However, a Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalents with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock having a record date prior to date on which Stock Units held by such Participant are settled. Such Dividend Equivalents shall be paid by crediting the Participant with additional whole and/or fractional Stock Units as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock. The method of determining the number of additional Stock Units to be so credited shall be specified by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement. Such additional Stock Units shall be subject to the same terms and conditions and shall be settled in the same manner and at the same time (or as soon thereafter as practicable) as the Stock Units originally subject to the Stock Unit Award. In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.2, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participant's Stock Unit Award so that it represent the right to receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant would be entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Award.
Voting Rights; Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions.
               (ii) A Participant electing to receive an Award of Stock Units pursuant to this Section 11 shall specify at the time of such election a settlement date with respect to such Award. The Company shall issue to the Participant as soon as practicable following the earlier of the settlement date elected by the Participant or the date of termination of the Participant's Service, a number of whole shares of Stock equal to the number of whole Stock Units subject to the Stock Unit Award. Such shares of Stock shall be fully vested, and the Participant shall not be required to pay any additional consideration (other than applicable tax withholding) to acquire such shares. Any fractional Stock Unit subject to the Stock Unit Award shall be settled by the Company by payment in cash of an amount equal to the Fair Market Value as of the payment date of such fractional share.
Settlement of Stock Unit Awards.
               (iii) Prior to their settlement in accordance with the provision of the Plan, no Stock Unit Award shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to a Stock Unit Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability of Stock Unit Awards.
12.
.
OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS
     In addition to the Awards set forth in Sections 6 through 11 above, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may carry out the purpose of this Plan by awarding Stock-Based Awards as it determines to be
 
in the best interests of the Company and subject to such other terms and conditions as it deems necessary and appropriate.
13.
EFFECT OF CHANGE IN CONTROL ON OPTIONS AND SARS.
     13.1 The Committee, in its sole discretion, may provide in any Award Agreement or, in the event of a Change in Control, may take such actions as it deems appropriate to provide for the acceleration of the exercisability and vesting in connection with such Change in Control of any or all outstanding Options and SARs and shares acquired upon the exercise of such Options and SARs upon such conditions and to such extent as the Committee shall determine. The previous sentence notwithstanding such acceleration shall not occur to the extent an Option or SAR is assumed or substituted with a substantially similar Award in connection with a Change in Control.
Accelerated Vesting.
     13.2 In the event of a Change in Control, the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing corporation or other business entity or parent thereof, as the case may be (the ), may, without the consent of the Participant, either assume the Company's rights and obligations under outstanding Options and SARs or substitute for outstanding Options and SARs substantially equivalent options or stock appreciation rights for the Acquiring Corporation's stock. Any Options or SARs which are neither assumed or substituted for by the Acquiring Corporation in connection with the Change in Control nor exercised as of the date of the Change in Control shall terminate and cease to be outstanding effective as of the date of the Change in Control. Notwithstanding the foregoing, shares acquired upon exercise of an Option or SAR prior to the Change in Control and any consideration received pursuant to the Change in Control with respect to such shares shall continue to be subject to all applicable provisions of the Award Agreement evidencing such Award except as otherwise provided in such Award Agreement. Furthermore, notwithstanding the foregoing, if the corporation the stock of which is subject to the outstanding Options or SARs immediately prior to an Ownership Change Event described in Section 2.1(z)(i) constituting a Change in Control is the surviving or continuing corporation and immediately after such Ownership Change Event less than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of its voting stock is held by another corporation or by other corporations that are members of an affiliated group within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Code without regard to the provisions of Section 1504(b) of the Code, the outstanding Options and SARs shall not terminate unless the Board otherwise provides in its discretion.
Assumption or Substitution.
"
Acquiring Corporation
"
     13.3 The Committee may, in its discretion, provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock or Other Type of Award that, in the event of a Change in Control, the lapsing of any applicable Vesting Condition, Restriction Period or Performance Goal applicable to the shares subject to such Award held by a Participant whose Service has not terminated prior to the Change in Control shall be accelerated and/or waived effective immediately prior to the consummation of the Change in Control to such extent as specified in such Award Agreement; provided, however, that such acceleration or waiver shall not occur to the extent an Award is assumed or substituted with a substantially equivalent Award in connection with the Change in Control. Any acceleration, waiver or the lapsing of any restriction that was permissible solely by reason of this Section 13.3 and the provisions of such Award Agreement shall be conditioned upon the consummation of the Change in Control.
Effect of Change in Control on Restricted Stock and Other Type of Awards.
14.
COMPLIANCE WITH SECURITIES LAW.
     The grant of Awards and the issuance of shares of Stock pursuant to any Award shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state and foreign law with respect to such securities and the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed. In addition, no Award may be exercised or shares issued pursuant to an Award unless (a) a registration statement under the Securities Act shall at the time of such exercise or issuance be in effect with respect to the shares issuable pursuant to the Award or (b) in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the shares issuable pursuant to the Award may be issued in accordance with the terms of an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares hereunder shall relieve the Company of any liability in
 
respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. As a condition to issuance of any Stock, the Company may require the Participant to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
15.
TAX WITHHOLDING.
15.1 The Company shall have the right to deduct from any and all payments made under the Plan, or to require the Participant, through payroll withholding, cash payment or otherwise, including by means of a Cashless Exercise or Net Exercise of an Option, to make adequate provision for, the federal, state, local and foreign taxes, if any, required by law to be withheld by the Participating Company Group with respect to an Award or the shares acquired pursuant thereto. The Company shall have no obligation to deliver shares of Stock, to release shares of Stock from an escrow established pursuant to an Award Agreement, or to make any payment in cash under the Plan until the Participating Company Group's tax withholding obligations have been satisfied by the Participant.
Tax Withholding in General.
     15.2 The Company shall have the right, but not the obligation, to deduct from the shares of Stock issuable to a Participant upon the exercise or settlement of an Award, or to accept from the Participant the tender of, a number of whole shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value, as determined by the Company, equal to all or any part of the tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group. The Fair Market Value of any shares of Stock withheld or tendered to satisfy any such tax withholding obligations shall not exceed the amount determined by the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates.
Withholding in Shares.
16.
AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF PLAN
.
     The Board or the Committee may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time. However, without the approval of the Company's stockholders, there shall be (a) no increase in the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan (except by operation of the provisions of Section 4.2), (b) no change in the class of persons eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options, and (c) no other amendment of the Plan that would require approval of the Company's stockholders under any applicable law, regulation or rule. No amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall affect any then outstanding Award unless expressly provided by the Board or the Committee. In any event, no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan may adversely affect any then outstanding Award without the consent of the Participant unless necessary to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule.
17.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
     17.1 Shares issued under the Plan may be subject to one or more repurchase options, or other conditions and restrictions as determined by the Committee in its discretion at the time the Award is granted. The Company shall have the right to assign at any time any repurchase right it may have, whether or not such right is then exercisable, to one or more persons as may be selected by the Company. Upon request by the Company, each Participant shall execute any agreement evidencing such transfer restrictions prior to the receipt of shares of Stock hereunder and shall promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares of Stock acquired hereunder for the placement on such certificates of appropriate legends evidencing any such transfer restrictions.
Repurchase Rights
.
     17.2 Each Participant shall be given access to information concerning the Company equivalent to that information generally made available to the Company's common stockholders.
Provision of Information.
     17.3 No person, even though eligible pursuant to Section 5, shall have a right to be selected as a Participant, or, having been so selected, to be selected again as a Participant. Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan shall confer on any Participant a right
Rights as Employee, Consultant or Director.
 
to remain an Employee, Consultant or Director or interfere with or limit in any way any right of a Participating Company to terminate the Participant's Service at any time. To the extent that an Employee of a Participating Company other than the Company receives an Award under the Plan, that Award shall in no event be understood or interpreted to mean that the Company is the Employee's employer or that the Employee has an employment relationship with the Company.
     17.4 . A Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by an Award until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such shares are issued, except as provided in Section 4.2 or another provision of the Plan.
Rights as a Stockholder
     17.5 The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares upon the exercise or settlement of any Award.
Fractional Shares.
     17.6 If any one or more of the provisions (or any part thereof) of this Plan shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such provision shall be modified so as to make it valid, legal and enforceable, and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions (or any part thereof) of the Plan shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability.
     17.7 Subject to local laws and procedures, each Participant may file with the Company a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any benefit under the Plan to which the Participant is entitled in the event of such Participant's death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit. Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participant's lifetime. If a married Participant designates a beneficiary other than the Participant's spouse, the effectiveness of such designation may be subject to the consent of the Participant's spouse. If a Participant dies without an effective designation of a beneficiary who is living at the time of the Participant's death, the Company will pay any remaining unpaid benefits to the Participant's legal representative.
Beneficiary Designation.
     17.8 Participants shall have the status of general unsecured creditors of the Company. Any amounts payable to Participants pursuant to the Plan shall be unfunded and unsecured obligations for all purposes, including, without limitation, Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. No Participating Company shall be required to segregate any monies from its general funds, or to create any trusts, or establish any special accounts with respect to such obligations. The Company shall retain at all times beneficial ownership of any investments, including trust investments, which the Company may make to fulfill its payment obligations hereunder. Any investments or the creation or maintenance of any trust or any Participant account shall not create or constitute a trust or fiduciary relationship between the Committee or any Participating Company and a Participant, or otherwise create any vested or beneficial interest in any Participant or the Participant's creditors in any assets of any Participating Company. The Participants shall have no claim against any Participating Company for any changes in the value of any assets which may be invested or reinvested by the Company with respect to the Plan. Each Participating Company shall be responsible for making benefit payments pursuant to the Plan on behalf of its Participants or for reimbursing the Company for the cost of such payments, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion. In the event the respective Participating Company fails to make such payment or reimbursement, a Participant's (or other individual's) sole recourse shall be against the respective Participating Company, and not against the Company. A Participant's acceptance of an Award pursuant to the Plan shall constitute agreement with this provision.
Unfunded Obligation.

 
Exhibit 99.2
(the "Company"), pursuant to its 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") hereby grants to the Optionee named below a non-qualified stock option to purchase the number of shares of the Company's common stock set forth below. This non-qualified stock option is not intended to qualify for the federal income tax benefits available to an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. This option is subject to all of the terms and conditions as set forth herein and the Stock Option Agreement (attached hereto) and the Plan which are incorporated herein in their entirety.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
1
     
Vesting Schedule
 
The Optionee acknowledges (in the form determined by the Company) receipt of, and represents that the Optionee has read, understands, accepts and agrees to the terms and conditions of the following: this Grant Notice, the Stock Option Agreement and the Plan (including, but not limited to, the binding arbitration provision in Section 3.7 of the Plan). Optionee hereby accepts the Option subject to all of its terms and conditions and further acknowledges that as of the Date of Grant, this Grant Notice, the Stock Option Agreement and the Plan set forth the entire understanding between Optionee and the Company regarding the acquisition of stock in the Company and supersedes all prior oral and written agreements pertaining to this particular option.
Additional Terms/Acknowledgments:
Note: The Optionee is solely responsible for any election to exercise the option, and the Company shall have no obligation whatsoever to provide notice to the Optionee of any matter, including, but not limited to, the date the option terminates.
Attachment: Stock Option Agreement (A12)
 
 
     Pursuant to the Grant Notice and this Stock Option Agreement, QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Company") has granted you an Option to purchase the number of shares of the Company's common stock ("Stock") indicated in the Grant Notice at the exercise price indicated in the Grant Notice. Defined terms not explicitly defined in this Stock Option Agreement but defined in the QUALCOMM Incorporated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") shall have the same definitions as in the Plan.
     The details of this Option are as follows:
     
1. 
Service and Vesting
.
           As provided in the Plan and notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to determine when your Service has terminated, including in the event of any leave of absence or part-time Service.
1.1
Service.
           Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this Agreement, this Option will vest as provided in the Grant Notice. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or this Agreement, the Company reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to suspend vesting of this Option in the event of any leave of absence or part-time Service.
1.2
Vesting.
     
2. 
Exercise of the Option
.
           You may exercise the vested portion of this Option at any time prior to the expiration of the Option by delivering a notice of exercise in such form as may be designated by the Company from time to time together with the exercise price to the Secretary of the Company, or to such other person as the Company may designate, during regular business hours and prior to the expiration of the Option, together with such additional documents as the Company may then require pursuant to the terms of the Plan.
2.1
Method of Exercise
.
           Payment of the exercise price may be by cash (or check), or pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board which, prior to the issuance of Stock, results in either the receipt of cash (or check) by the Company or the receipt of irrevocable instructions to a broker which provides for the payment of the aggregate exercise price to the Company, or a combination of the above methods, as the Company may designate from time to time.
2.2
Method Of Payment.
           By exercising this Option you agree that as a condition to any exercise of this Option, the Company may withhold from your pay and any other amounts payable to you, or require you to enter an arrangement providing for the payment by you to the Company of any tax withholding obligation of the Company arising by reason of (1) the exercise of this Option; (2) the lapse of any substantial risk of forfeiture to which the Stock is subject at the time of exercise; or (3) the disposition of Stock acquired upon such exercise.
2.3
Tax Withholding
.
           You are responsible for taking any and all actions as may be required to exercise this Option in a timely manner and for properly executing any such documents as may be required for exercise in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be established from time to time. By signing this Agreement you acknowledge that information regarding the procedures and requirements
2.4
Responsibility For Exercise.
Form A12
 
for this exercise of the Option is available to you on request. The Company shall have no duty or obligation to notify you of the expiration date of this Option.
          
2.5
Effect of Termination of Service
.
               (a) Subject to earlier termination of the Option as otherwise provided herein and unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the Grant Notice, the Option shall be exercisable after your termination of Service only during the applicable time period determined in accordance with this Section and thereafter shall terminate.
Option Exercisability
.
                    (i) If your Service terminates because of your Disability, the Option shall continue for the period of such Disability under the terms and conditions of the Option Agreement and may be exercised by you at any time during the period of Disability but in any event no later than the date of expiration of the Option's term set forth in Section 4 (the ).
Disability.
"
Option Expiration Date
"
                    (ii) If your Service terminates because of your death or because of your Disability and such termination is subsequently followed by your death, (A) the exercisability and vesting of the Option shall be accelerated effective upon your death, and (B) the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date of your death, may be exercised by your legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by reason of your death at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date of your death, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Death.
                    (iii) If your Service terminates at or after Normal Retirement Age, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date on which your Service terminated, may be exercised by you at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which your Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Normal Retirement Age.
                    (iv) If your Service ceases as a result of "Layoff" (as defined below), then, subject to your execution of a general release of claims satisfactory to the Company, (A) the exercisability and vesting of the Option shall be accelerated effective as of the date on which your Service terminated by ten percent (10%) of the shares which would otherwise be unvested on such date, and (B) the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date on which your Service terminated, may be exercised by you (or your guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of six (6) months after the date on which your Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company's auditors determine that the provisions or operation of the preceding sentence would cause the Company to incur a compensation expense and provided further that in the absence of the preceding sentence no such compensation expense would be incurred, then the preceding sentence shall be without force or effect, and the vesting and exercisability of each outstanding Option and any shares acquired upon the exercise thereof shall be determined under any other applicable provision of the Plan, the Grant Notice or this Option Agreement.
Termination After Layoff.
                    (v) If at the request of the Company, you transfer Service to a Non-Control Affiliate and your Service ceases as a result, then, subject to your execution of a general release of claims form reasonably satisfactory to the Company, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date on which your Service terminated, may be exercised by you (or your guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which your Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Termination Upon Transfer to Non-Control Affiliate.
                    (vi) If your Service ceases as a result of Termination After Change in Control (as defined below), then (A) the exercisability and vesting of the Option shall be accelerated effective as of the date on which the your Service terminated, and (B) the Option, to
Termination After Change in Control.
Form A12
 
the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date on which your Service terminated, may be exercised by you (or your guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of six (6) months after the date on which your Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
                    (vii) Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.5(a)(i) through (vi), if your Service with the Participating Company Group terminates for any reason, then to the extent unexercised and exercisable by you on the date on which your Service terminates, the Option may be exercised by you at any time prior to the expiration of thirty (30) days after the date on which your Service terminates, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Other Termination of Service.
          (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, other than termination for Cause, if the exercise of the Option within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 2.5(a) is prevented by the provisions of the Plan, the Option shall remain exercisable until three (3) months after the date you are notified by the Company that the Option is exercisable, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law.
          (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, other than termination for Cause, if a sale within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 2.5(a) of shares acquired upon the exercise of the Option would subject you to suit under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Option shall remain exercisable until the earliest to occur of (i) the tenth (10th) day following the date on which a sale of such shares by you would no longer be subject to such suit, (ii) the one hundred and ninetieth (190th) day after your termination of Service, or (iii) the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Subject to Section 16(b)
.
          (d)
Certain Definitions.
                    (i) shall mean any of the following: (1) your theft, dishonesty, or falsification of any Participating Company documents or records; (2) your improper use or disclosure of a Participating Company's confidential or proprietary information; (3) any action by you which has a detrimental effect on a Participating Company's reputation or business; (4) your failure or inability to perform any reasonable assigned duties after written notice from a Participating Company of, and a reasonable opportunity to cure, such failure or inability; (5) any material breach by you of any employment or service agreement between you and a Participating Company, which breach is not cured pursuant to the terms of such agreement; (6) your conviction (including any plea of guilty or nolo contendere) of any criminal act which impairs your ability to perform your duties with a Participating Company; or (7) violation of a material Company policy.
"Cause"
                    (ii) shall mean any one or more of the following:
"Good Reason"
                         a) without your express written consent, the assignment to you of any duties, or any limitation of your responsibilities, substantially inconsistent with your positions, duties, responsibilities and status with the Participating Company Group immediately prior to the date of the Change in Control;
                         b) without your express written consent, the relocation of the principal place of your employment or service to a location that is more than fifty (50) miles from your principal place of employment or service immediately prior to the date of the Change in Control, or the imposition of travel requirements substantially more demanding of you than such travel requirements existing immediately prior to the date of the Change in Control;
                         c) any failure by the Participating Company Group to pay, or any material reduction by the Participating Company Group of, (A) your base salary in effect immediately prior to the date of the Change in Control (unless reductions comparable in amount and duration are concurrently made for all other employees of the Participating Company Group with responsibilities, organizational level and title
Form A12
 
comparable to yours), or (B) your bonus compensation, if any, in effect immediately prior to the date of the Change in Control (subject to applicable performance requirements with respect to the actual amount of bonus compensation earned by you);
                         d) any failure by the Participating Company Group to (A) continue to provide you with the opportunity to participate, on terms no less favorable than those in effect for the benefit of any employee or service provider group which customarily includes a person holding the employment or service provider position or a comparable position with the Participating Company Group then held by you, in any benefit or compensation plans and programs, including, but not limited to, the Participating Company Group's life, disability, health, dental, medical, savings, profit sharing, stock purchase and retirement plans, if any, in which you were participating immediately prior to the date of the Change in Control, or their equivalent, or (B) provide you with all other fringe benefits (or their equivalent) from time to time in effect for the benefit of any employee group which customarily includes a person holding the employment or service provider position or a comparable position with the Participating Company Group then held by you;
                         e) any breach by the Participating Company Group of any material agreement between you and a Participating Company concerning your employment; or
                         f) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption of any material agreement between you and the Company concerning your employment by a successor or assign of the Company.
                    (iii) shall mean the involuntary termination of your Service for reasons other than Cause, constructive termination, death, or Disability.
"Layoff"
                    (iv) shall mean either of the following events occurring within twenty-four (24) months after a Change in Control:
"Termination After Change in Control"
                         a) termination by the Participating Company Group of your Service with the Participating Company Group for any reason other than for Cause; or
                         b) your resignation for Good Reason from all capacities in which you are then rendering Service to the Participating Company Group within a reasonable period of time following the event constituting Good Reason.
     Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, Termination After Change in Control shall not include any termination of your Service with the Participating Company Group which (1) is for Cause; (2) is a result of your death or Disability; (3) is a result of your voluntary termination of Service other than for Good Reason; or (4) occurs prior to the effectiveness of a Change in Control.
     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this Option may not be exercised unless the Stock issuable upon exercise of this Option is then registered under the Securities Act or, if such Stock is not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
3. 
Securities Law Compliance
.
     The term of this Option commences on the Date of Grant (as specified in the Grant Notice) and expires and shall no longer be exercisable upon the earliest of:
4. 
Termination of the Option
.
               (a) the Expiration Date indicated in the Grant Notice;
               (b) the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Date of Grant;
Form A12
 
               (c) the last day for exercising the Option following termination of your Service as described in Section 2.5; or
               (d) a Change of Control, to the extent provided in Section 5.
     In the event of a Change in Control, the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing corporation or other business entity or parent thereof, as the case may be (the ), may, without your consent, either assume the Company's rights and obligations under this Option or substitute for this Option a substantially equivalent option for the Acquiring Corporation's stock. In the event the Acquiring Corporation elects not to assume or substitute for this Options in connection with a Change in Control, the exercisability and vesting of this Option and any shares acquired upon the exercise thereof held by you, so long as your Service has not terminated prior to such date, shall be accelerated, effective as of the date ten (10) days prior to the date of the Change in Control. The exercise or vesting of any Option and any shares acquired upon the exercise thereof that was permissible solely by reason of this Section shall be conditioned upon the consummation of the Change in Control. If this Option is neither assumed or substituted for by the Acquiring Corporation in connection with the Change in Control nor exercised as of the date of the Change in Control, it shall terminate and cease to be outstanding effective as of the date of the Change in Control. Notwithstanding the foregoing, shares acquired upon exercise of this Option prior to the Change in Control and any consideration received pursuant to the Change in Control with respect to such shares shall continue to be subject to all applicable provisions of this Option Agreement except as otherwise provided in this Option Agreement. Furthermore, notwithstanding the foregoing, if the corporation the stock of which is subject to this Option immediately prior to an Ownership Change Event constituting a Change in Control is the surviving or continuing corporation and immediately after such Ownership Change Event less than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of its voting stock is held by another corporation or by other corporations that are members of an affiliated group within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Code without regard to the provisions of Section 1504(b) of the Code, this Option shall not terminate unless the Committee otherwise provides in its discretion.
5. 
Change in Control
.
"
Acquiring Corporation
"
      An Incentive Stock Option shall not be transferable except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the person to whom the Incentive Stock Option is granted only by such person. A vested Nonstatutory Stock Option shall not be transferable in any manner (including without limitation, sale, alienation, anticipation, pledge, encumbrance, or assignment) other than, (i) by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, (ii) by written designation of a beneficiary, in a form acceptable to the Company, with such designation taking effect upon your death, (iii) by delivering written notice to the Company, in a form acceptable to the Company (including such representations, warranties and indemnifications as the Company shall require you to make to protect the Company's interests and ensure that this Nonstatutory Stock Option has been transferred under the circumstances approved by the Company), by gift to your spouse, former spouse, children, stepchildren, grandchildren, parent, stepparent, grandparent, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, persons having one of the foregoing types of relationship with you due to adoption, any person sharing your household (other than a tenant or employee), a foundation in which these persons or you control the management of assets, and any other entity in which these persons (or you) own more than fifty percent of the voting interests. A transfer to an entity in which more than fifty percent of the voting interests are owned by these persons (or you) in exchange for an interest in that entity is specifically included as a permissible type of transfer. In addition, a transfer to a trust created solely for the benefit (i.e., you and/or any or all of the foregoing persons hold more than 50 percent of the beneficial interest in the trust) of you and/or any or all of the foregoing persons is also a permissible transferee, or (iv) such other transferees as may be authorized by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion. During your life this Nonstatutory Stock Option is exercisable only by you or a transferee satisfying the above conditions. Except in the event of your death, upon transfer of a Nonstatutory Stock Option to any or all of the foregoing persons, you, as the Optionee, are liable for any and all taxes due upon exercise of those transferred Nonstatutory Stock Options. At no time will a transferee who is considered an affiliate under Rule 144(a)(1) be able to sell any or all such Stock without complying with Rule
6. 
Transferability.
Form A12
 
144. The right of a transferee to exercise the transferred portion of this Nonstatutory Stock Option shall terminate in accordance with your right of exercise under this Nonstatutory Stock Option and is further subject to such representations, warranties and indemnifications from the transferee that the Company requires the transferee to make to protect the Company's interests and ensure that this Nonstatutory Stock Option has been transferred under the circumstances approved by the Company. Once a portion of a Nonstatutory Stock Option is transferred, no further transfer may be made of that portion of the Nonstatutory Stock Option.
     This Option is not an employment or service contract and nothing in this Stock Option Agreement , the Grant Notice or the Plan shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the service of the Company, or of the Company to continue your service with the Company. In addition, nothing in your Option shall obligate the Company, its stockholders, Board, Officers or Employees to continue any relationship which you might have as a Director or Consultant for the Company.
7. 
Option Not a Service Contract
.
     Any notices provided for in this Stock Option Agreement, the Grant Notice or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at the last address you provided to the Company.
8. 
Notices
.
     Any dispute or claim concerning any Options granted (or not granted) pursuant to the Plan and any other disputes or claims relating to or arising out of the Plan shall be fully, finally and exclusively resolved by binding arbitration conducted by the American Arbitration Association pursuant to the commercial arbitration rules in San Diego, California. By accepting the Option, you and the Company waive your respective rights to have any such disputes or claims tried by a judge or jury.
9. 
Arbitration.
     The Board may amend your Option at any time, provided no such amendment may adversely affect the Option or any unexercised portion of your Option, without your consent unless such amendment is necessary to comply with any applicable law or government regulation. No amendment or addition to this Stock Option Agreement shall be effective unless in writing or, in such electronic form as may be designated by the Company.
10. 
Amendment.
     Your Option is subject to this Stock Option Agreement, the Grant Notice and all the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of which are hereby made a part of this Stock Option Agreement, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Stock Option Agreement, the Grant Notice and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
11. 
Governing Plan Document
.
Form A12
 
(the "Company"), pursuant to its 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") hereby grants to the Optionee named below a non-qualified stock option to purchase the number of shares of the Company's common stock set forth below. This non-qualified stock option is not intended to qualify for the federal income tax benefits available to an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. This option is subject to all of the terms and conditions as set forth herein and the Stock Option Agreement (attached hereto) and the Plan which are incorporated herein in their entirety.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
2
     
Vesting Schedule
 
The undersigned Optionee acknowledges receipt of, and represents that the Optionee has read, understands, accepts and agrees to the terms of the following: this Grant Notice, the Stock Option Agreement and the Plan (including, but not limited to, the binding arbitration provision in Section 3.7 of the Plan). Optionee hereby accepts the Option subject to all of its terms and conditions and further acknowledges that as of the Date of Grant, this Grant Notice, the Stock Option Agreement and the Plan set forth the entire understanding between Optionee and the Company regarding the acquisition of stock in the Company and supersedes all prior oral and written agreements pertaining to this particular option.
Additional Terms/Acknowledgments:
Note
: The Optionee is solely responsible for notifying the Company, in a timely manner, of any election to exercise the option, and the Company shall have no obligation whatsoever to provide notice to the Optionee of any matter, including, but not limited to, the date the option terminates.
Attachment: Stock Option Agreement
 
 
(the "Company"), pursuant to its 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") hereby grants to the Optionee named below a non-qualified stock option to purchase the number of shares of the Company's common stock set forth below. This non-qualified stock option is not intended to qualify for the federal income tax benefits available to an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. This option is subject to all of the terms and conditions as set forth herein and the Stock Option Agreement (attached hereto) and the Plan which are incorporated herein in their entirety.
QUALCOMM Incorporated
3
     
Vesting Schedule
 
The undersigned Optionee acknowledges receipt of, and represents that the Optionee has read, understands, accepts and agrees to the terms of the following: this Grant Notice, the Stock Option Agreement and the Plan (including, but not limited to, the binding arbitration provision in Section 3.7 of the Plan). Optionee hereby accepts the Option subject to all of its terms and conditions and further acknowledges that as of the Date of Grant, this Grant Notice, the Stock Option Agreement and the Plan set forth the entire understanding between Optionee and the Company regarding the acquisition of stock in the Company and supersedes all prior oral and written agreements pertaining to this particular option.
Additional Terms/Acknowledgments:
Note
: The Optionee is solely responsible for notifying the Company, in a timely manner, of any election to exercise the option, and the Company shall have no obligation whatsoever to provide notice to the Optionee of any matter, including, but not limited to, the date the option terminates.
Attachment: Stock Option Agreement
 
 
     Pursuant to the Grant Notice and this Stock Option Agreement, QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Company") has granted you an Option to purchase the number of shares of the Company's common stock ("Stock") indicated in the Grant Notice at the exercise price indicated in the Grant Notice. The Grant Notice shall specify whether such Option is an Initial Option or an Annual Option. Defined terms not explicitly defined in this Stock Option Agreement but defined in the QUALCOMM Incorporated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") shall have the same definitions as in the Plan.
     The details of this Option are as follows:
      Subject to the execution by a Non-Employee Director of this Option Agreement, the Option shall be granted as authorized by the Board from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any person may elect not to receive an Option by delivering written notice of such election to the Board no later than the day prior to the date such Option would otherwise be granted. A person so declining an Option shall receive no payment or other consideration in lieu of such declined Option. A person who has declined an Option may revoke such election by delivering written notice of such revocation to the Board no later than the day prior to the date such Option would be granted according to the authorization of the Board.
12. 
Right to Decline Option.
     Subject to the limitations contained herein, this Option will vest as provided in the Grant Notice, provided that vesting will cease upon the termination of your Service, unless such termination is due to Disability or death. If termination of Service is due to Disability or death, then the exercisability and vesting of the Option shall continue or accelerate to the extent provided for in the Plan and this Agreement.
13. 
Vesting
.
     
14. 
Exercise of the Option
.
           You may exercise the vested portion of this Option at any time prior to the expiration of the Option by delivering a notice of exercise in such form as may be designated by the Company from time to time together with the exercise price to the Secretary of the Company, or to such other person as the Company may designate, during regular business hours and prior to the expiration of the Option, together with such additional documents as the Company may then require pursuant to the terms of the Plan. Each Option shall vest and become exercisable as set forth below and shall terminate and cease to be exercisable on the tenth (10) anniversary date of grant of the Option, unless earlier terminated in accordance with the terms of the Plan or as set forth below.
14.1
Method of Exercise
.
           Payment of the exercise price may be by cash (or check), or pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board which, prior to the issuance of Stock, results in either the receipt of cash (or check) by the Company or the receipt of irrevocable instructions to a broker which provides for the payment of the aggregate exercise price to the Company, or a combination of the above methods, as the Company may designate from time to time.
14.2
Method Of Payment.
           By exercising this Option you agree that as a condition to any exercise of this Option, the Company may withhold from your pay and any other amounts payable to you, or require you to enter an arrangement providing for the payment by you to the Company of any tax withholding obligation of the Company arising by reason of (1) the exercise of this Option; (2) the lapse of any substantial risk of forfeiture to which the Stock is subject at the time of exercise; or (3) the disposition of Stock acquired upon such exercise.
14.3
Tax Withholding
.
 
           You are responsible for taking any and all actions as may be required to exercise this Option in a timely manner and for properly executing any such documents as may be required for exercise in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be established from time to time. By signing this Agreement you acknowledge that information regarding the procedures and requirements for this exercise of the Option is available to you on request. The Company shall have no duty or obligation to notify you of the expiration date of this Option.
14.4
Responsibility For Exercise.
          
14.5
Effect of Termination of Service
.
               (a) Subject to earlier termination of the Option as otherwise provided herein and unless otherwise provided by the Board in the Grant Notice, an Option shall be exercisable after your termination of Service only during the applicable time period determined in accordance with this Section and thereafter shall terminate.
Option Exercisability
.
                    (i) If your Service terminates because of your Disability or after you reach Normal Retirement Age, then except as otherwise provided in Section 3.5(a)(ii), (A) your Service shall be deemed to continue and the exercisability and vesting of the Option and, in the case of an immediately exercisable option, the shares acquired upon exercise thereof shall continue under the terms and conditions of this Option Agreement, and (B) the Option to the extent unexercised and exercisable may be exercised by you (or, your guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of the Option's term as set forth below (the "Option Expiration Date").
Disability and Normal Retirement Age.
                    (ii) If your Service terminates because of your death, or if you die after attaining Normal Retirement Age, or after your Disability, then, (A) the exercisability and vesting of the Option and any shares acquired on the exercise thereof shall be accelerated effective as of the date of your death, and (B) the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date of your death, may be exercised by your legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by reason of your death at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date of your death, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Death.
                    (iii) If your Service with the Participating Company Group terminates prior to Normal Retirement Age for any reason except Disability, or death, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable by you on the date on which your Service terminates, may be exercised by you at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which your Service terminates, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Other Termination of Service.
               (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the exercise of an Option within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 3.5(a) is prevented by the provisions of the Plan, the Option shall remain exercisable until three (3) months after the date you are notified by the Company that the Option is exercisable, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law.
               (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a sale within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 3.5(a) of shares acquired upon the exercise of the Option would subject you to suit under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Option shall remain exercisable until the earliest to occur of (i) the tenth (10th) day following the date on which a sale of such shares by you would no longer be subject to such suit, (ii) the one hundred and ninetieth (190th) day after your termination of Service, or (iii) the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Subject to Section 16(b)
.
     This Option shall not be transferable in any manner (including without limitation, sale, alienation, anticipation, pledge, encumbrance, or assignment) other than, (i) by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, (ii) by written designation of a beneficiary, in a form acceptable to the Company, with such designation taking effect upon your death, (iii) by delivering written notice to the
15. 
Transferability
.
 
Company, in a form acceptable to the Company (including such representations, warranties and indemnifications as the Company shall require you to make to protect the Company's interests and ensure that this Option has been transferred under the circumstances approved by the Company), by gift to your spouse, former spouse, children, stepchildren, grandchildren, parent, stepparent, grandparent, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, persons having one of the foregoing types of relationship with you due to adoption, any person sharing your household (other than a tenant or employee), a foundation in which these persons or you control the management of assets, and any other entity in which these persons (or you) own more than fifty percent of the voting interests. A transfer to an entity in which more than fifty percent of the voting interests are owned by these persons (or you) in exchange for an interest in that entity is specifically included as a permissible type of transfer. In addition, a transfer to a trust created solely for the benefit (i.e., you and/or any or all of the foregoing persons hold more than 50 percent of the beneficial interest in the trust) of you and/or any or all of the foregoing persons is also a permissible transferee, or (iv) such other transferees as may be authorized by the Board in its sole and absolute discretion. During your life this Option is exercisable only by you or a transferee satisfying the above conditions. Except in the event of your death, upon transfer of an Option to any or all of the foregoing persons, you, as the Optionee, are liable for any and all taxes due upon exercise of those transferred Options. At no time will a transferee who is considered an affiliate under Rule 144(a)(1) be able to sell any or all such Stock without complying with Rule 144. The right of a transferee to exercise the transferred portion of this Option shall terminate in accordance with your right of exercise under this Option and is further subject to such representations, warranties and indemnifications from the transferee that the Company requires the transferee to make to protect the Company's interests and ensure that this Option has been transferred under the circumstances approved by the Company. Once a portion of an Option is transferred, no further transfer may be made of that portion of the Option.
     In the event of a Change in Control, any unexercisable or unvested portion of this Option and any shares acquired upon the exercise thereof held by you if your Service has not terminated prior to such date shall be immediately exercisable and vested in full as of the date ten (10) days prior to the date of the Change in Control. The exercise or vesting of any Option and any shares acquired upon the exercise thereof that was permissible solely by reason of this Section shall be conditioned upon the consummation of the Change in Control. In addition, the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing corporation or parent corporation thereof, as the case may be (the ), may either assume the Company's rights and obligations under this Option or substitute for this Option a substantially equivalent option for the Acquiring Corporation's stock. If this Option is neither assumed or substituted for by the Acquiring Corporation in connection with the Change in Control nor exercised as of the date of the Change in Control, it shall terminate and cease to be outstanding effective as of the date of the Change in Control. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the corporation the stock of which is subject to the outstanding Options immediately prior to an Ownership Change Event described in the Plan constituting a Change in Control is the surviving or continuing corporation and immediately after such Ownership Change Event less than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of its voting stock is held by another corporation or by other corporations that are members of an affiliated group within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Code without regard to the provisions of Section 1504(b) of the Code, this Option shall not terminate unless the Board otherwise provides in its discretion.
16. 
Change in Control
.
"Acquiring Corporation"
     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this Option may not be exercised unless the Stock issuable upon exercise of this Option is then registered under the Securities Act or, if such Stock is not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
17. 
Securities Law Compliance
.
     The term of this Option commences on the Date of Grant (as specified in the Grant Notice) and expires and shall no longer be exercisable upon the earliest of:
18. 
Termination of the Option
.
 
               (a) the Expiration Date indicated in the Grant Notice;
               (b) the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Date of Grant;
               (c) the last day for exercising the Option following termination of your Service as described in the Plan; or
               (d) a Change of Control, to the extent provided in the Plan or this Option Agreement.
     This Option is not an employment or service contract and nothing in this Stock Option Agreement , the Grant Notice or the Plan shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the service of the Company, or of the Company to continue your service with the Company. In addition, nothing in your Option shall obligate the Company, its stockholders, Board, Officers or Employees to continue any relationship which you might have as a Director or Consultant for the Company.
19. 
Option Not a Service Contract
.
     Any notices provided for in this Stock Option Agreement, the Grant Notice or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at the last address you provided to the Company.
20. 
Notices
.
     Any dispute or claim concerning any Options granted (or not granted) pursuant to the Plan and any other disputes or claims relating to or arising out of the Plan shall be fully, finally and exclusively resolved by binding arbitration conducted by the American Arbitration Association pursuant to the commercial arbitration rules in San Diego, California. By accepting an Option, you and the Company waive your respective rights to have any such disputes or claims tried by a judge or jury.
21. 
Arbitration.
     The Board may amend your Option at any time, provided no such amendment may adversely affect the Option or any unexercised portion of your Option, without your consent unless such amendment is necessary to comply with any applicable law or government regulation. No amendment or addition to this Stock Option Agreement shall be effective unless in writing or, in such electronic form as may be designated by the Company.
22. 
Amendment.
     Your Option is subject to this Stock Option Agreement, the Grant Notice and all the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of which are hereby made a part of this Stock Option Agreement, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Stock Option Agreement, the Grant Notice and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
23. 
Governing Plan Document
.

 
EXHIBIT 99.3
     QUALCOMM Incorporated, a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, does hereby certify:
     FIRST: The name of the corporation is QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Corporation").
     SECOND: Article VI of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is amended to read in its entirety as follows, except for subsections B, C, D and E, as noted below, which shall remain unchanged:
     For the management of the business and for the conduct of the affairs of the corporation, and in further definition, limitation and regulation of the powers of the corporation, of its directors and of its stockholders or any class thereof, as the case may be, it is further provided that:
     A. The management of the business and the conduct of the affairs of the corporation shall be vested in its Board of Directors. The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be fixed exclusively by one or more resolutions adopted from time to time by the Board of Directors. The candidates receiving the highest number of votes of the shares entitled to be voted for them up to the number of directors to be elected by such shares shall be declared elected.
     At the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders. At the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. At the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, all directors shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders. At each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, the directors shall be elected for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article, each director shall serve until his successor is duly elected and qualified or until his death, resignation or removal. No decrease in
 
the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
     Any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other causes shall be filled by either (i) the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then-outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock") voting together as a single class; or (ii) by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors shall, unless the Board of Directors determines by resolution that any such newly created directorship shall be filled by the stockholders, be filled only by the affirmative vote of the directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Any director elected in accordance with this paragraph shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified."
     "F. Any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time (i) with cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock, voting together as a single class; or (ii) without cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock. If the holders of any class or series of capital stock are entitled to elect one (1) or more directors by this certificate of incorporation, as amended from time to time, the removal of such directors without cause shall be by a vote of the outstanding shares of that series or class of capital stock and not the outstanding shares of capital stock as a whole."
     THIRD: The foregoing amendments were duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, QUALCOMM Incorporated has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be signed by the undersigned, thereunto duly appointed, this 7th day of March, 2006.

 
EXHIBIT 99.4
     QUALCOMM Incorporated, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
     FIRST: The name of this corporation is QUALCOMM Incorporated. This corporation was originally incorporated under the name "QUALCOMM, Inc." through the filing of a Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on August 15, 1991. A Restated Certificate of Incorporation was filed on September 10, 1991 changing the name of the corporation to QUALCOMM Incorporated.
     SECOND: The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of QUALCOMM Incorporated, in the form attached hereto as , has been duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation attached hereto as only restates and integrates and does not further amend the provisions of this corporation's Certificate of Incorporation as heretofore amended or supplemented, and there is no discrepancy between those provisions and the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation attached hereto as .
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
     THIRD: The Restated Certificate of Incorporation so adopted reads in full as set forth on attached hereto and hereby incorporated by reference.
Exhibit A
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, QUALCOMM Incorporated has caused this certificate to be signed by its Secretary this 7th day of March, 2006.
 
     The name of this corporation is QUALCOMM Incorporated.
     The address of the registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware is 32 Loockerman Square, Suite L-100, City of Dover, County of Kent, and the name of the registered agent of the corporation in the State of Delaware as such address is The Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Inc.
     The purpose of this corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
     This corporation is authorized to issue two classes of stock to be designated, respectively, "Common Stock" and "Preferred Stock." The total number of shares which the corporation is authorized to issue is six billion eight million (6,008,000,000) shares. Six billion (6,000,000,000) shares shall be Common Stock, each having a par value of one one-hundredth of one cent ($0.0001). Eight million (8,000,000) shares shall be Preferred Stock, each having a par value of one one-hundredth of one cent ($0.0001).
     The relative rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imposed upon the respective classes and series of shares are as follows:
     A. .
COMMON STOCK
     The voting, dividend and liquidation rights of the Common Stock are subject to and qualified by the rights of the holders of the Preferred Stock of any series as designated herein and as may be designated by the Board of Directors of the corporation upon any issuance of the Preferred Stock of any series.
 
     B. .
PREFERRED STOCK
     The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series. The Board of Directors is hereby authorized, by filing a certificate pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, to fix or alter from time to time the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, including without limitation the dividend rights, dividend rate, conversion rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption (including sinking fund provisions), redemption price or prices, and the liquidation preferences of any wholly unissued series of Preferred Stock, and to establish from time to time the number of shares constituting any such series and the designation thereof, or any of them (a "Preferred Stock Designation"); and to increase or decrease the number of shares of any series subsequent to the issuance of shares of that series, but not below the number of shares of such series then outstanding. In case the number of shares of any series shall be decreased in accordance with the foregoing sentence, the shares constituting such decrease shall resume the status that they had prior to the adoption of the resolution originally fixing the number of shares of such series.
     On September 26, 1995, the Board of Directors created a series of Preferred Stock designated as the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. The relative designations and the powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof (in addition to the provisions otherwise set forth in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which are applicable to the Preferred Stock of all classes and series), as such were amended by the Board of Directors on September 26, 2005, are as set forth in the resolutions attached hereto as .
Attachment 1
     For the management of the business and for the conduct of the affairs of the corporation, and in further definition, limitation and regulation of the powers of the corporation, of its directors and of its stockholders or any class thereof, as the case may be, it is further provided that:
     A. The management of the business and the conduct of the affairs of the corporation shall be vested in its Board of Directors. The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be fixed exclusively by one or more resolutions adopted from time to time by the Board of Directors. The candidates receiving the highest number of votes of the shares entitled to be voted for them up to the number of directors to be elected by such shares shall be declared elected.
     At the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders. At the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. At the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, all directors shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders. At each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, the directors shall be elected for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders.
 
     Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article, each director shall serve until his successor is duly elected and qualified or until his death, resignation or removal. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
     Any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other causes shall be filled by either (i) the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then-outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock") voting together as a single class; or (ii) by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors shall, unless the Board of Directors determines by resolution that any such newly created directorship shall be filled by the stockholders, be filled only by the affirmative vote of the directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Any director elected in accordance with this paragraph shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified.
     B. The Bylaws may be altered or amended or new Bylaws adopted by the affirmative vote of at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock. In furtherance and not in limitation of the power conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, amend, supplement or repeal the Bylaws.
     C. The directors of the corporation need not be elected by written ballot unless the Bylaws so provide.
     D. No action shall be taken by the stockholders of the corporation except at an annual or special meeting of stockholders called in accordance with the Bylaws and no action shall be taken by the stockholders by written consent.
     E. Advance notice of stockholder nominations for the election of directors and of business to be brought by stockholders before any meeting of the stockholders of the corporation shall be given in the manner provided in the Bylaws of the corporation.
     F. Any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time (i) with cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock, voting together as a single class; or (ii) without cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock. If the holders of any class or series of capital stock are entitled to elect one (1) or more directors by this certificate of incorporation, as amended from time to time, the removal of such directors without cause shall be by a vote of the outstanding shares of that series or class of capital stock and not the outstanding shares of capital stock as a whole.
 
     A director of the corporation shall, to the full extent not prohibited by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, not be liable to the corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of his or her fiduciary duty as a director.
     A. (1) In addition to any affirmative vote required by law, by this Certificate of Incorporation or by any Preferred Stock Designation, and except as otherwise expressly provided in Section B of this Article VIII:
               (i) any merger or consolidation of the corporation or any Subsidiary (as hereinafter defined) with (a) any Interested Stockholder (as hereinafter defined) or (b) any other corporation (whether or not itself an Interested Stockholder) which is, or after such merger or consolidation would be, an Affiliate (as hereinafter defined) of an Interested Stockholder; or
               (ii) any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) to or with any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder of any assets of the corporation or any Subsidiary having an aggregate Fair Market Value (as hereinafter defined) equal to or greater than 15% of the Corporation's assets as set forth on the Corporation's most recent audited consolidated financial statements; or
               (iii) the issuance or transfer by the corporation or any Subsidiary (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of any securities of the corporation or any Subsidiary to any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder in exchange for cash, securities or other property (or a combination thereof) having an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to or greater than 15% of the Corporation's assets as set forth on the Corporation's most recent audited consolidated financial statements; or
               (iv) the adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the corporation proposed by or on behalf of any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder; or
               (v) any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), or recapitalization of the corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the corporation with any of its Subsidiaries or any other transaction (whether or not with or into or otherwise involving any Interested Stockholder) which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate share of the outstanding shares of any class of equity or convertible securities of the corporation or any Subsidiary which is Beneficially Owned (as hereinafter defined) by any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder;
shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock, voting together as a single class. Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding any other provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation or any provision of law or of any agreement with any national
 
securities exchange or otherwise which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote.
          (2) The term "Business Combination" as used in this Article VIII shall mean any transaction which is referred to in any one or more of subparagraphs (i) through (v) of paragraph (1) of this Section A.
     B. The provisions of Section A of this Article VIII shall not be applicable to any particular Business Combination, and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote as is required by law, any other provision of this Certificate of Incorporation and any Preferred Stock Designation, if, in the case of a Business Combination that does not involve any cash or other consideration being received by the stockholders of the corporation, solely in their respective capacities as stockholders of the corporation, the condition specified in the following paragraph (1) is met, or, in the case of any other Business Combination, the conditions specified in either of the following paragraph (1) or paragraph (2) are met:
          (1) The Business Combination shall have been approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors (as hereinafter defined); provided however, that this condition shall not be capable of satisfaction unless there are at least two Continuing Directors.
          (2) All of the following conditions shall have been met:
               (i) The consideration to be received by holders of shares of a particular class (or series) of outstanding Voting Stock (including Common Stock and other than Excluded Preferred Stock (as hereinafter defined)) shall be in cash or in the same form as the Interested Stockholder or any of its Affiliates has previously paid for shares of such class (or series) of Voting Stock. If the Interested Stockholder or any of its Affiliates have paid for shares of any class (or series) of Voting Stock with varying forms of consideration, the form of consideration to be received per share by holders of shares of such class (or series) of Voting Stock shall be either cash or the form used to acquire the largest number of shares of such class (or series) of Voting Stock previously acquired by the Interested Stockholder.
               (ii) The aggregate amount of (x) the cash and (y) the Fair Market Value, as of the date (the "Consummation Date") of the consummation of the Business Combination, of the consideration other than cash to be received per share by holders of Common Stock in such Business Combination shall be at least equal to the higher of the following (in each case appropriately adjusted in the event of any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares or similar event):
                    (a) (if applicable) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder or any of its Affiliates for any shares of Common Stock acquired by them within the two-year period immediately prior to the date of the first public announcement of the proposal of the Business Combination (the "Announcement Date") or in any transaction in which the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder, whichever is higher, plus interest compounded annually from the first date on which the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder (the "Determination Date") through the Consummation Date at the publicly announced reference rate of interest of Bank of America, N.T. & S.A. (or such other
 
major bank headquartered in the State of California as may be selected by the Continuing Directors) from time to time in effect in the City of San Francisco less the aggregate amount of any cash dividends paid, and the Fair Market Value of any dividends paid in other than cash, on each share of Common Stock from the Determination Date through the Consummation Date in an amount up to but not exceeding the amount of interest so payable per share of Common Stock; and
                    (b) the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the Announcement Date or the Determination Date, whichever is higher.
               (iii) The aggregate amount of (x) the cash and (y) the Fair Market Value, as of the Consummation Date, of the consideration other than cash to be received per share by holders of shares of any class (or series), other than Stock or Excluded Preferred Stock, of outstanding Voting Stock shall be at least equal to the highest of the following (in each case appropriately adjusted in the event of any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares or similar event), it being intended that the requirements of this paragraph (2)(iii) shall be required to be met with respect to every such class (or series) of outstanding Voting Stock whether or not the Interested Stockholder or any of its Affiliates has previously acquired any shares of a particular class (or series) of Voting Stock):
                    (a) (if applicable) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder or any of its Affiliates for any shares of such class (or series) of Voting Stock acquired by them within the two-year period immediately prior to the Announcement Date or in any transaction in which it became an Interested Stockholder, whichever is higher, plus interest compounded annually from the Determination Date through the Consummation Date at the publicly announced reference rate of interest of Bank of America, N.T. & S.A. (or such other major bank headquartered in the State of California as may be selected by the Continuing Directors) from time to time in effect in the City of San Francisco less the aggregate amount of any cash dividends paid, and the Fair Market Value of any dividends paid in other than cash, on each share of such class (or series) of Voting Stock from the Determination Date through the Consummation Date in an amount up to but not exceeding the amount of interest so payable per share of such class (or series) of Voting Stock;
                    (b) the Fair Market Value per share of such class (or series) of Voting Stock on the Announcement Date or on the Determination Date, whichever is higher; and
                    (c) the highest preferential amount per share, if any, to which the holders of shares of such class (or series) of Voting Stock would be entitled in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation.
               (iv) After such Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder and prior to the consummation of such Business Combination: (a) except as approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors, there shall have been no failure to declare and pay at the regular date therefor any full quarterly dividends (whether or not cumulative) on any outstanding Preferred Stock; (b) there shall have been (I) no reduction in the annual rate of dividends paid on the Common Stock (except as necessary to reflect any subdivision of the
 
Common Stock), except as approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors, and (II) an increase in such annual rate of dividends as necessary to reflect any reclassification (including any reverse stock split), recapitalization, reorganization or any similar transaction which has the effect of reducing the number of outstanding shares of the Common Stock, unless the failure so to increase such annual rate is approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors; and (c) neither such Interested Stockholder nor any of its Affiliates shall have become the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Voting Stock except as part of the transaction which results in such Interested Stockholder becoming an Interested Stockholder; provided, however, that no approval by Continuing Directors shall satisfy the requirements of this subparagraph (iv) unless at the time of such approval there are at least two Continuing Directors.
               (v) After such Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder, such Interested Stockholder and any of its Affiliates shall not have received the benefit, directly or indirectly (except proportionately, solely in such Interested Stockholder's or Affiliate's capacity as a stockholder of the corporation), of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance or any tax credits or other tax advantages provided by the corporation, whether in anticipation of or in connection with such Business Combination or otherwise.
               (vi) A proxy or information statement describing the proposed Business Combination and complying with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (or any subsequent provisions replacing such Act, rules or regulations) shall be mailed to all stockholders of the corporation at least 30 days prior to the consummation of such Business Combination (whether or not such proxy or information statement is required to be mailed pursuant to such Act or subsequent provisions).
               (vii) Such Interested Stockholder shall have supplied the corporation with such information as shall have been requested pursuant to Section E of this Article VIII within the time period set forth therein.
     C. For the purposes of this Article VIII:
          (1) A "person" means any individual, limited partnership, general partnership, corporation or other firm or entity.
          (2) "Interested Stockholder" means any person (other than the corporation or any Subsidiary) who or which:
               (i) is the Beneficial Owner (as hereinafter defined), directly or indirectly, of fifteen percent (15%) or more of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock; or
               (ii) if an Affiliate of the corporation and at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question was the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of fifteen percent (15%) or more of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock; or
 
               (iii) is an assignee of or has otherwise succeeded to any shares of Voting Stock which were at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question beneficially owned by an Interested Stockholder, if such assignment or succession shall have occurred in the course of a transaction or series of transactions not involving a public offering within the meaning of the 1933 Act.
          (3) A person shall be a "Beneficial Owner" of, or shall "Beneficially Own," any Voting Stock:
               (i) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates (as hereinafter defined) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect on the adoption date of this Certificate of Incorporation; or
               (ii) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has (a) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, or (b) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (but shall not be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of any shares of Voting Stock solely by reason of a revocable proxy granted for a particular meeting of stockholders, pursuant to a public solicitation of proxies for such meeting, and with respect to which shares neither such person nor any such Affiliate or Associate is otherwise deemed the Beneficial Owner); or
               (iii) which is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect on the adoption date of this Certificate of Incorporation, by any other person with which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (other than solely by reason of a revocable proxy as described in subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph (3) or disposing of any shares of Voting Stock; provided, however, that in case of any employee stock ownership or similar plan of the corporation or of any Subsidiary in which the beneficiaries thereof possess the right to vote any shares of Voting Stock held by such plan, no such plan nor any trustee with respect thereto (nor any Affiliate of such trustee), solely by reason of such capacity of such trustee, shall be deemed, for any purposes hereof, to beneficially own any shares of Voting Stock held under any such plan.
          (4) For the purposes of determining whether a person is an Interested Stockholder pursuant to paragraph (2) of this Section C, the number of shares of Voting Stock deemed to be outstanding shall include shares deemed owned through application of paragraph (3) of this Section C but shall not include any other unissued shares of Voting Stock which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.
          (5) "Affiliate" or "Associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect on the adoption date of this Certificate of Incorporation.
 
          (6) "Subsidiary" means any corporation of which a majority of any class of equity security is owned, directly or indirectly, by the corporation; provided, however, that for the purposes of the definition of Interested Stockholder set forth in paragraph (2) of this Section C, the term "Subsidiary" shall mean only a corporation of which a majority of each class of equity security is owned directly or indirectly, by the corporation.
          (7) "Continuing Director" means any member of the Board of Directors of the corporation who is unaffiliated with the Interested Stockholder and was a member of the Board of Directors prior to the time that the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder and any director who is thereafter chosen to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors or who is elected and who, in either event, is unaffiliated with the Interested Stockholder and in connection with his or her initial assumption of office is recommended for an appointment or election by a majority of Continuing Directors then on the Board.
          (8) "Fair Market Value" means: (i) in the case of stock, the highest closing sale price during the 30-day period immediately preceding the date in question of a share of such stock on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange-Listed Stocks, or, if such stock is not quoted on the Composite Tape, on the New York Stock Exchange, or, if such stock is not listed on such Exchange, on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on which such stock is listed, or, if such stock is not listed on any such exchange, the highest closing sale price quotation with respect to a share of such stock during the 30-day period preceding the date in question on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or any system then in use, or if no such quotations are available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such stock as determined by the Board in accordance with Section D of this Article VIII; and (ii) in the case of property other than cash or stock, the fair market value of such property on the date in question as determined by the Board in accordance with Section D of this Article VIII.
          (9) In the event of any Business Combination in which the corporation survives, the phrase "consideration other than cash to be received" as used in paragraphs (2)(ii) and (2)(iii) of Section B of this Article VIII shall include the shares of Common Stock and/or the shares of any other class (or series) of outstanding Voting Stock retained by the holders of such shares.
          (10) "Whole Board" means the total number of directors which this corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
          (11) "Excluded Preferred Stock" means any series of Preferred Stock with respect to which the Preferred Stock Designation creating such series expressly provides that the provisions of this Article VIII shall not apply.
     D. A majority of the Whole Board but only if a majority of the Whole Board shall then consist of Continuing Directors or, if a majority of the Whole Board shall not then consist of Continuing Directors, a majority of the then Continuing Directors, shall have the power and duty to determine, on the basis of information known to them after reasonable inquiry, all facts necessary to determine compliance with this Article VIII, including, without limitation, (i) whether a person is an Interested Stockholder, (ii) the number of shares of Voting Stock
 
beneficially owned by any person, (iii) whether a person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, (iv) whether the applicable conditions set forth in paragraph (2) of Section B have been met with respect to any Business Combination, (v) the Fair Market Value of stock or other property in accordance with paragraph (8) of Section C of this Article VIII, and (vi) whether the assets which are the subject of any Business Combination referred to in paragraph (1)(ii) of Section A have or the consideration to be received for the issuance or transfer of securities by the corporation or any Subsidiary in any Business Combination referred to in paragraph (1)(iii) of Section A has, an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to or greater than 15% of the Corporation's assets as set forth on the Corporation's most recent audited consolidated financial statements.
     E. A majority of the Whole Board shall have the right to demand, but only if a majority of the Whole Board shall then consist of Continuing Directors, or, if a majority of the Whole Board shall not then consist of Continuing Directors, a majority of the then Continuing Directors shall have the right to demand, that any person who it is reasonably believed is an Interested Stockholder (or holds of record shares of Voting Stock Beneficially Owned by any Interested Stockholder) supply this corporation with complete information as to (i) the record owner(s) of all shares Beneficially Owned by such person who it is reasonably believed is an Interested Stockholder, (ii) the number of, and class or series of, shares Beneficially Owned by such person who it is reasonably believed is an Interested Stockholder and held of record by each such record owner and the number(s) of the stock certificate(s) evidencing such shares, and (iii) any other factual matter relating to the applicability of effect of this Article VIII, as may be reasonably requested of such person, and such person shall furnish such information within 10 days after receipt of such demand.
     F. Nothing contained in this Article VIII shall be construed to relieve any Interested Stockholder from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
     Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation or any provision of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote, but in addition to any affirmative vote of the holders of any particular class or series of the Voting Stock required by law, this Certificate of Incorporation or any Preferred Stock Designation, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend or repeal Article VI, Article VII, Article VIII or this Article IX.
     The corporation is to have perpetual existence.
     The corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, except as provided in Article IX of this Certificate, and all rights conferred upon the stockholders herein are granted subject to this right.
 
          ", that, pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors of the Corporation in accordance with the provisions of its Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the designation and terms of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Corporation established pursuant to the Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on October 17, 1995 and incorporated into Attachment 1 to the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Delaware Secretary of State March 10, 2005, shall be amended in their entirety to read as follows:
RESOLVED
               Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock:
               SECTION 1. DESIGNATION AND AMOUNT. Four Million (4,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock, $.0001 par value, are designated "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" with the designations and the powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions specified herein (the "Junior Preferred Stock"). Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; provided, that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Junior Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Junior Preferred Stock.
               SECTION 2. DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS.
               (A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock (or any similar stock) ranking prior and superior to the Junior Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Junior Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock, par value $.0001 per share (the "Common Stock"), of the Corporation and of any other junior stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first day of April, July, October and January in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Junior Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $1.00 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise) declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend
 
Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Junior Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after September 26, 2005 (the "Designation Date") declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Junior Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
               (B) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Junior Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $1.00 per share on the Junior Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
               (C) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Junior Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Junior Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Junior Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Junior Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
               SECTION 3. VOTING RIGHTS. The holders of shares of Junior Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
               (A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Junior Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1,000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Designation Date declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common
 
Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Junior Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
               (B) Except as otherwise provided herein, in any other Certificate of Designation creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of Junior Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
               (C) Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law, holders of Junior Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
               SECTION 4. CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS.
               (A) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Junior Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Junior Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
                    (i) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Junior Preferred Stock;
                    (ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Junior Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Junior Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
                    (iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Junior Preferred stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Junior Preferred Stock; or
                    (iv) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Junior Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Junior Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
 
               (B) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
               SECTION 5. REACQUIRED SHARES. Any shares of Junior Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may by reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, or in any other Certificate of Designation creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
               SECTION 6. LIQUIDATION, DISSOLUTION OR WINDING UP. Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (1) to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Junior Preferred stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Junior Preferred Stock shall have received $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment, provided that the holders of shares of Junior Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock, or (2) to the holders of shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Junior Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Junior Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Designation Date declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Junior Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the proviso in clause (1) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
               SECTION 7. CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, ETC. In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of Junior Preferred stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Designation Date declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock
 
payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Junior Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
               SECTION 8. NO REDEMPTION. The shares of Junior Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
               SECTION 9. RANK. The Junior Preferred Stock shall rank, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, junior to all series of any other class of the Corporation's Preferred Stock.
               SECTION 10. AMENDMENT. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Junior Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Junior Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class."

 
EXHIBIT 99.5
 
     Section 1. . The registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Dover, County of Kent. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8. Section 131).
Registered Office
     Section 2. . The corporation shall also have and maintain an office or principal place of business in California, at such place as may be fixed by the Board of Directors, and may also have offices at such other places, both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the corporation may require. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 122(8)).
Other Offices
     Section 3. . The corporate seal shall consist of a die bearing the name of the corporation and the inscription, "Corporate Seal-Delaware." Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 122(3)).
Corporate Seal
     Section 4. . Meetings of the stockholders of the corporation shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors, or, if not so designated, then at the office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 hereof. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 211(a)).
Place of Meetings
     Section 5. .
Annual Meeting
          (a) The annual meeting of the stockholders of the corporation, for the purpose of election of Directors and for such other business as may lawfully come before it, shall be held on such date and at such time as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 211(b)).
          (b) At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be: (A) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (B) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (C) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder. For business to be properly brought
 
before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be received at the corporation's principal executive offices not less than 120 days in advance of the first anniversary of the date that the corporation's (or the corporation's predecessor's) proxy statement was released to stockholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting of stockholders, except that if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 calendar days earlier than the date of the prior year' s annual meeting, notice by the stockholders to be timely must be received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which the date of the annual meeting is publicly announced. Public announcement shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting: (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business, (iii) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder, (iv) any material interest of the stockholder in such business and (v) any other information that is required to be provided by the stockholder pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), in his capacity as a proponent to a stockholder proposal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in order to include information with respect to a stockholder proposal in the proxy statement and form of proxy for a stockholder's meeting, stockholders must provide notice as required by the regulations promulgated under the 1934 Act. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this paragraph (b). The chairman of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (b), and, if he should so determine, he shall so declare at the meeting that any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8: Section 211(b)).
          (c) Subject to any applicable provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this paragraph (c) shall be eligible for election as Directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the corporation may be made at a meeting of stockholders by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or by any stockholder of the corporation entitled to vote in the election of Directors at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this paragraph (c). Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the corporation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 5. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to each person, if any, whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a Director: (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (B) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (C) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are beneficially owned by such person, (D) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and
 
any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nominations are to be made by the stockholder, and (E) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of Directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the 1934 Act (including without limitation such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement, if any, as a nominee and to serving as a Director if elected); and (ii) as to such stockholder giving notice, the information required to be provided pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 5. At the request of the Board of Directors, any person nominated by a stockholder for election as a Director shall furnish to the Secretary of the corporation that information required to be set forth in the stockholder's notice of nomination which pertains to the nominee. No person shall be eligible for election as a Director of the corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this paragraph (c). The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare at the meeting, and the defective nomination shall be disregarded. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 212).
     Section 6. .
Special Meetings
          (a) Special meetings of the stockholders of the corporation may be called, for any purpose or purposes, by (i) the Chairman of the Board of Directors, (ii) the President, or (iii) the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized Directors (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any such resolution is presented to the Board of Directors for adoption), and shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as the President or Board of Directors, as the case may be, shall fix.
          (b) If a special meeting is called by any person or persons other than the Board of Directors, the request shall be in writing, specifying the general nature of the business proposed to be transacted, and shall be delivered personally or sent by registered mail or by telegraphic or other facsimile transmission to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, or the Secretary of the corporation. No business may be transacted at such special meeting otherwise than specified in such notice. The Board of Directors shall determine the time and place of such special meeting, which shall be held not less than thirty-five (35) nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of the receipt of the request. Upon determination of the time and place of the meeting, the officer receiving the request shall cause notice to be given to the stockholders entitled to vote, in accordance with the provisions of Section 7 of these Bylaws. If the notice is not given within sixty (60) days after the receipt of the request, the person or persons requesting the meeting may set the time and place of the meeting and give the notice. Nothing contained in this paragraph (b) shall be construed as limiting, fixing, or affecting the time when a meeting of stockholders called by action of the Board of Directors may be held.
     Section 7. . Except as otherwise provided by law or theCertificate of Incorporation, written notice of each meeting of stockholders shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, such notice to specify the place, date and hour and
Notice of Meetings
 
purpose or purposes of the meeting. Notice of the time, place and purpose of any meeting of stockholders may be waived in writing, signed by the person entitled to notice thereof, either before or after such meeting, and will be waived by any stockholder by his attendance thereat in person or by proxy, except when the stockholder attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Any stockholder so waiving notice of such meeting shall be bound by the proceedings of any such meeting in all respects as if due notice thereof had been given. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Sections 222, 229).
     Section 8. . At all meetings of stockholders, except where otherwise provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation, or by these Bylaws, the presence, in person or by proxy duly authorized, of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of a quorum, any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned, from time to time, either by the chairman of the meeting or by vote of the holders of a majority of the shares represented thereat, but no other business shall be transacted at such meeting. The stockholders present at a duly called or convened meeting, at which a quorum is present, may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, all action taken by the holders of a majority of the vote cast, excluding abstentions, at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be valid and binding upon the corporation; provided, however, that except as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of Directors. Where a separate vote by a class or classes is required, a majority of the outstanding shares of such class or classes, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum entitled to take action with respect to that vote on that matter and the affirmative vote of the majority (plurality, in the case of the election of Directors) of shares of such class or classes present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting shall be the act of such class. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 216).
Quorum
     Section 9. . Any meeting of stockholders, whether annual or special, may be adjourned from time to time either by the chairman of the meeting or by the vote of a majority of the shares casting votes, excluding abstentions. When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting, the corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 222(c)).
Adjournment and Notice of Adjourned Meetings
     Section 10. . For the purpose of determining those stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of the stockholders, except as otherwise provided by law, only persons in whose names shares stand on the stock records of the corporation on the record date, as provided in Section 12 of these Bylaws, shall be entitled to vote ay any meeting of stockholders. Every person entitled to vote or execute consents shall have the right to do so either in person or by an agent or agents authorized by a written proxy executed by such person
Voting Rights
 
or his duly authorized agent, which proxy shall be filed with the Secretary at or before the meeting at which it is to be used. An agent so appointed need not be a stockholder. No proxy shall be voted after three (3) years from its date of creation unless the proxy provides for a longer period. All elections of Directors shall be by written ballot, unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Sections 211(e), 212(b)).
     Section 11. . If shares or other securities having voting power stand of record in the names of two (2) or more persons, whether fiduciaries, members of a partnership, joint tenants, tenants in common, tenants by the entirety, or otherwise, or if two (2) or more persons have the same fiduciary relationship respecting the same shares, unless the Secretary is given written notice to the contrary and is furnished with a copy of the instrument or order appointing them or creating the relationship wherein it is so provided, their acts with respect to voting shall have the following effect: (a) if only one (1) votes, his act binds all; (b) if more than one (1) votes, the act of the majority so voting binds all; (c) if more than one (1) votes, but the vote is evenly split on any particular matter, each faction may vote the securities in question proportionally, or may apply to the Delaware Court of Chancery for relief as provided in the General Corporation Law of Delaware, Section 217(b). If the instrument filed with the Secretary shows that any such tenancy is held in unequal interests, a majority or even-split for the purpose of subsection (c) shall be a majority or even-split in interest. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 217(b)).
Joint Owners of Stock
     Section 12. . The Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at said meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 219(a)).
List of Stockholders
     Section 13. . Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such stockholders.
Action Without Meeting
     Section 14. .
Organization
          (a) At every meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or, if a Chairman has not been appointed or is absent, the Chief Executive Officer, or, if the Chief Executive Officer is absent, the President, or if the President is absent, the most senior Vice President present, or in the absence of any such officer, a chairman of the meeting chosen by a majority in interest of the stockholders entitled to vote, present in person or by proxy, shall
 
act as chairman. The Secretary, or, in his absence, an Assistant Secretary directed to do so by the President, shall act as secretary of the meeting.
          (b) The Board of Directors of the corporation shall be entitled to make such rules or regulations for the conduct of meetings of stockholders as it shall deem necessary, appropriate or convenient. Subject to such rules and regulations of the Board of Directors, if any, the chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are necessary, appropriate or convenient for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, establishing an agenda or order of business for the meeting, rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present, limitations on participation in such meeting to stockholders of record of the corporation and their duly authorized and constituted proxies and such other persons as the chairman shall permit, restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants and regulation of the opening and closing of the polls for balloting on matters which are to be voted on by ballot. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with rules of parliamentary procedure.
     Section 15. . Subject to any limitations imposed by the Certificate of Incorporation, the authorized number of Directors of the corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors by a resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors. Directors need not be stockholders unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation. At the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders, the successors of the Directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders. At the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, the successors of the Directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. At the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, all Directors shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders. At each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, the Directors shall be elected for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders. If for any cause, the Directors shall not have been elected at an annual meeting, they may be elected as soon thereafter as convenient at a special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose in the manner provided in these Bylaws. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Sections 141(b), 211(b), (c)).
Number and Term of Office
     Section 16. . The powers of the corporation shall be exercised, its business conducted and its property controlled by the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 141(a)).
Powers
     Section 17. Successors. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article, each Director shall serve until his successor is duly elected and qualified or until his death, resignation or removal. No decrease in the number of Directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent Director.
 
     Section 18. . Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other causes shall be filled by either (i) the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then-outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors (the "Voting Stock") voting together as a single class; or (ii) by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining Directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Newly created Directorships resulting from any increase in the number of Directors shall, unless the Board of Directors determines by resolution that any such newly created directorship shall be filled by the stockholders, be filled only by the affirmative vote of the Directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Any Director elected in accordance with this paragraph shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholdersand until such Director's successor shall have been elected and qualified. A vacancy in the Board of Directors shall be deemed to exist under this Bylaw in the case of the death, removal or resignation of any Director, or if the stockholders fail at any meeting of stockholders at which Directors are to be elected (including any meeting referred to in Section 21 below) to elect the number of Directors then constituting the whole Board of Directors. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 223(a), (b)).
Vacancies
     Section 19. . Any Director may resign at any time by delivering his written resignation to the Secretary, such resignation to specify whether it will be effective at a particular time, upon receipt by the Secretary or at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. If no such specification is made, it shall be deemed effective at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. When one or more Directors shall resign from the Board of Directors, effective at a future date, a majority of the Directors then in office, including those who have so resigned, shall have power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when such resignation or resignations shall become effective, and each Director so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Sections 141(b), 223(d)).
Resignation
     Section 20. . Subject to any limitations imposed by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors, or any individual Director, may be removed from office at any time (a) with cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the then outstanding shares of the capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote at an election of Directors; or (b) without cause by an affirmative vote of the holders of at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of such outstanding shares. If the holders of any class or series of capital stock are entitled to elect one (1) or more Directors by the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended from time to time, the removal of such Directors without cause shall be by a vote of the outstanding shares of that series or class of capital stock and not the outstanding shares of capital stock as a whole. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 141(k)).
Removal
     Section 21. .
Meetings
          (a) . The annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held immediately after the annual meeting of stockholders and at the place where such meeting is held. No notice of an annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be necessary and such
Annual Meetings
 
meeting shall be held for the purpose of electing officers and transacting such other business as may lawfully come before it.
          (b) . Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held in the office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 hereof. Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, regular meetings of the Board of Directors may also be held at any place within or without the State of Delaware which has been designated by resolution of the Board of Directors or the written consent of all Directors. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 141(g)).
Regular Meetings
          (c) . Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time and place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, the President or any two of the Directors. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 141(g)).
Special Meetings
          (d) . Any member of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting by such means shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 141(i)).
Telephone Meetings
          (e) . Written notice of the time and place of all special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be given at least twenty-four (24) hours before the date of the meeting. Notice of any meeting may be waived in writing at any time before or after the meeting and will be waived by any Director by attendance thereat, except when the Director attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 229).
Notice of Meetings
          (f) . The transaction of all business at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, however called or noticed, or wherever held, shall be as valid as though had at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum be present and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the Directors not present shall sign a written waiver of notice, or a consent to holding such meeting, or an approval of the minutes thereof. All such waivers, consents or approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 229).
Waiver of Notice
     Section 22. .
Quorum and Voting
          (a) Unless the Certificate of Incorporation requires a greater number and except with respect to indemnification questions arising under Section 43 hereof, for which a quorum shall be one-third of the exact number of Directors fixed from time to time in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation, but not less than one (1), a quorum of the Board of Directors shall consist of a majority of the exact number of Directors fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation, but not less than one (1); provided, however, at any meeting whether a quorum be present or otherwise, a majority of the Directors present may adjourn from time to time until the time fixed for the next regular
 
meeting of the Board of Directors, without notice other than by announcement at the meeting. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 141(b)).
          (b) At each meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum is present, all questions and business shall be determined by a vote of a majority of the Directors present, unless a different vote be required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 141(b)).
     Section 23. . Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 141(f)).
Action Without Meeting
     Section 24. . Directors shall be entitled to such compensation for their services as may be approved by the Board of Directors, including, if so approved, by resolution of the Board of Directors, a fixed sum and expenses of attendance, if any, for attendance at each regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors and at any meeting of a committee of the Board of Directors. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any Director from serving the corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee, or otherwise and receiving compensation therefor. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 141(h)).
Fees and Compensation
     Section 25. .
Committees
          (a) . The Board of Directors may by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors appoint an Executive Committee to consist of one (1) or more members of the Board of Directors. The Executive Committee, to the extent permitted by law and specifically granted by the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise when the Board of Directors is not in session all powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, including, without limitation, the power and authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock, except such committee shall not have the power or authority to amend the Certificate of Incorporation, to adopt an agreement of merger or consolidation, to recommend to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the corporation's property and assets, to recommend to the stockholders of the corporation a dissolution of the corporation or a revocation of a dissolution or to amend these Bylaws. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 141(c)).
Executive Committee
          (b) . The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, from time to time appoint such other committees as may be permitted by law. Such other committees appointed by the Board of Directors shall consist of one (1) or more members of the Board of Directors and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the resolution or resolutions creating such committees, but in no event shall such committee have the powers denied to the Executive Committee in these Bylaws. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 141(c)).
Other Committees
 
          (c) . Each member of a committee of the Board of Directors shall serve a term on the committee coexistent with such member's term on the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors, subject to the provisions of subsections (a) or (b) of this Bylaw, may at any time increase or decrease the number of members of a committee or terminate the existence of a committee. The membership of a committee member shall terminate on the date of his death or voluntary resignation from the committee or from the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may at any time for any reason remove any individual committee member and the Board of Directors may fill any committee vacancy created by death, resignation, removal or increase in the number of members of the committee. The Board of Directors may designate one or more Directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee, and, in addition, in the absence or disqualification of any member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 141(c)).
Term
          (d) . Unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide, regular meetings of the Executive Committee or any other committee appointed pursuant to this Section 25 shall be held at such times and places as are determined by the Board of Directors, or by any such committee, and when notice thereof has been given to each member of such committee, no further notice of such regular meetings need be given thereafter. Special meetings of any such committee may be held at any place which has been determined from time to time by such committee, and may be called by any Director who is a member of such committee, upon written notice to the members of such committee of the time and place of such special meeting given in the manner provided for the giving of written notice to members of the Board of Directors of the time and place of special meetings of the Board of Directors. Notice of any special meeting of any committee may be waived in writing at any time before or after the meeting and will be waived by any Director by attendance thereat, except when the Director attends such special meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. A majority of the authorized number of members of any such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Sections 141(c), 229).
Meetings
     Section 26. . At every meeting of the Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or, if a Chairman has not been appointed or is absent, the Chief Executive Officer, or if the Chief Executive Officer is absent, the President, or if the President is absent, the most senior Vice President, or, in the absence of any such officer, a chairman of the meeting chosen by a majority of the Directors present, shall preside over the meeting. The Secretary, or in his absence, an Assistant Secretary directed to do so by the President, shall act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization
 
     Section 27. . The officers of the corporation shall include, if and when designated by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, one or more Vice Presidents, the Chief Technical Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Secretary, the Treasurer, the Controller, all of whom shall be elected at the annual organizational meeting of the Board of Directors. The order of the seniority of the Vice Presidents shall be in the order of their nomination, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may also appoint one or more Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Controllers and such other officers and agents with such powers and duties as it shall deem necessary. The Board of Directors may assign such additional titles to one or more of the officers as it shall deem appropriate. Any one person may hold any number of offices of the corporation at any one time unless specifically prohibited therefrom by law. The salaries and other compensation of the officers of the corporation shall be fixed by or in the manner designated by the Board of Directors. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Sections 122(5), 142(a), (b)).
Officers Designated
     Section 28. .
Tenure and Duties of Officers
          (a) . All officers shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and until their successors shall have been duly elected and qualified, unless sooner removed. Any officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the Board of Directors. If the office of any officer becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy may be filled by the Board of Directors. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 141(b), (e)).
General
          (b) . The Chairman of the Board of Directors, when present, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall perform other duties commonly incident to his office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 142(a)).
Duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors
          (c) . The Chief Executive Officer, if such an officer be elected, shall, subject to the control of the Board, have general supervision, direction and control of the business and the officers of the Corporation. In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, or if there be none, the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and at all meetings of the Board. The Chief Executive Officer shall exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may from time to time be assigned to him by the Board.
Chief Executive Officer
          (d) . Unless the Chairman of the Board of Directors has been appointed and is present, and in the absence of the Chief Executive Officer, or if there be none, the President shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and at all meetings of the Board of Directors. The President shall perform other duties commonly incident to his office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 142(a)).
Duties of President
 
          (e) . The Vice Presidents, in the order of their seniority, may assume and perform the duties of the President in the absence or disability of the President or whenever the office of President is vacant. The Vice Presidents shall perform other duties commonly incident to their office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the President shall designate from time to time. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 142(a)).
Duties of Vice Presidents
          (f) . The Chief Technical Officer shall be responsible for overall technical direction, strategic planning for technology, insuring basic technology exists to meet corporate objectives and insuring technical superiority of staff by, among other things, setting technical standards and other related activities as from time to time determined by the president. The Chief Technical Officer shall report directly to the President.
Duties of Chief Technical Officer
          (g) . Unless otherwise designated by the Board of Directors, the Chief Financial Officer shall be the Treasurer of the corporation. The Chief Financial Officer shall keep or cause to be kept the books of account of the corporation in a thorough and proper manner and shall render statements of the financial affairs of the corporation in such form and as often as required by the Board of Directors or the President. The Chief Financial Officer, subject to the order of the Board of Directors, shall have the custody of all funds and securities of the corporation. The Chief Financial Officer, and if there be a separate office of the Treasurer, the Treasurer, shall perform such duties and have such powers, as are commonly incident to such office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the President or Chief Executive Officer shall designate from time to time. The President may direct the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer, or the Controller or any Assistant Controller to assume and perform the duties of the Chief Financial Officer in the absence or disability of the Chief Financial Officer, and each Assistant Treasurer shall perform other duties commonly incident to his office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the President shall designate from time to time. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 142(a)).
Duties of Chief Financial Officer
          (h) . The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall record all acts and proceedings thereof in the minute book of the corporation. The Secretary shall give notice in conformity with these Bylaws of all meetings of the stockholders and of all meetings of the Board of Directors and any committee thereof requiring notice. The Secretary shall perform all other duties given him in these Bylaws and other duties commonly incident to his office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time. The President may direct any Assistant Secretary to assume and perform the duties of the Secretary in the absence or disability of the Secretary, and each Assistant Secretary shall perform other duties commonly incident to his office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the President shall designate from time to time. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 142(a)).
Duties of Secretary
     Section 29. . The Board of Directors may from time to time delegate the powers or duties of any officer to any other officer or agent, notwithstanding any provision hereof.
Delegation of Authority
 
     Section 30. . Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors or to the President or to the Secretary. Any such resignation shall be effective when received by the person or persons to whom such notice is given, unless a later time is specified therein, in which event the resignation shall become effective at such later time. Unless otherwise specified in such notice, the acceptance of any such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Any resignation shall be without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the corporation under any contract with the resigning officer. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 142(b)).
Resignations
     Section 31. . Any officer may be removed from office at any time, either with or without cause, by the vote or written consent of a majority of the Directors in office at the time, or by any committee or superior officers upon whom such power of removal may have been conferred by the Board of Directors.
Removal
     Section 32. . The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, determine the method and designate the signatory officer or officers, or other person or persons, to execute on behalf of the corporation any corporate instrument or document, or to sign on behalf of the corporation the corporate name without limitation, or to enter into contracts on behalf of the corporation, except where otherwise provided by law or these Bylaws, and such execution or signature shall be binding upon the corporation. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Sections 103(a), 142(a), 158).
Execution of Corporate Instruments
     Unless otherwise specifically determined by the Board of Directors or otherwise required by law, promissory notes, deeds of trust, mortgages and other evidences of indebtedness of the corporation, and other corporate instruments or documents requiring the corporate seal, and certificates of shares of stock owned by the corporation, shall be executed, signed or endorsed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President or any Vice President, and by the Secretary or Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer or any Assistant Secretary or Assistant Treasurer. All other instruments and documents requiring the corporate signature, but not requiring the corporate seal, may be executed as aforesaid or in such other manner as may be directed by the Board of Directors. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Sections 103(a), 142(a), 158).
     All checks and drafts drawn on banks or other depositories on funds to the credit of the corporation or in special accounts of the corporation shall be signed by such person or persons as the Board of Directors shall authorize so to do.
     Unless authorized or ratified by the Board of Directors or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Sections 103(a), 142(a), 158).
     Section 33. . All stock and other securities of other corporations owned or held by the corporation for itself, or for other
Voting of Securities Owned by the Corporation
 
parties in any capacity, shall be voted, and all proxies with respect thereto shall be executed, by the person authorized so to do by resolution of the Board of Directors, or, in the absence of such authorization, by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, or any Vice President. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 123).
     Section 34. . Certificates for the shares of stock of the corporation shall be in such form as is consistent with the Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law. Every holder of stock in the corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the corporation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President or any Vice President and by the Treasurer or Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, certifying the number of shares owned by him in the corporation. Where such certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent other than the corporation or its employee, or by a registrar other than the corporation or its employee, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued with the same effect as if he were such officer transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue. Each certificate shall state upon the face or back thereof, in full or in summary, all of the designations, preferences, limitations, restrictions on transfer and relative rights of the shares authorized to be issued. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 158).
Form and Execution of Certificates
     Section 35. . A new certificate or certificates shall be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen, or destroyed. The corporation may require, as a condition precedent to the issuance of a new certificate or certificates, the owner of such lost, stolen, or destroyed certificate or certificates, or his legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as it shall require or to give the corporation a surety bond in such form and amount as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 167).
Lost Certificates
     Section 36. .
Transfers
          (a) Transfers of record of shares of stock of the corporation shall be made only upon its books by the holders thereof, in person or by attorney duly authorized, and upon the surrender of a properly endorsed certificate or certificates for a like number of shares. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 201, tit. 6, Section 8-401(1)).
          (b) The corporation shall have power to enter into and perform any agreement with any number of stockholders of any one or more classes of stock of the corporation to restrict the transfer of shares of stock of the corporation of any one or more classes owned by such stockholders in any manner not prohibited by the General Corporation Law of Delaware. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 160(a)).
 
     Section 37. .
Fixing Record Dates
          (a) In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
          (b) In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business or an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
          (c) In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 213).
 
     Section 38. . The corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8; Sections 213(a), 219).
Registered Stockholders
     Section 39. . All bonds, debentures and other corporate securities of the corporation, other than stock certificates (covered in Section 34), may be signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or any Vice President, or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, and the corporate seal impressed thereon or a facsimile of such seal imprinted thereon and attested by the signature of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, or the Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer; provided, however, that where any such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall be authenticated by the manual signature of a trustee under an indenture pursuant to which such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall be issued, the signatures of the persons signing and attesting the corporate seal on such bond, debenture or other corporate security may be the imprinted facsimile of the signatures of such persons. Interest coupons appertaining to any such bond, debenture or other corporate security, authenticated by a trustee as aforesaid, shall be signed by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the corporation or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or bear imprinted thereon the facsimile signature of such person. In case any officer who shall have signed or attested any bond, debenture or other corporate security, or whose facsimile signature shall appear thereon or on any such interest coupon, shall have ceased to be such officer before the bond, debenture or other corporate security so signed or attested shall have been delivered, such bond, debenture or other corporate security nevertheless may be adopted by the corporation and issued and delivered as though the person who signed the same or whose facsimile signature shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer of the corporation.
Execution of Other Securities
     Section 40. . Dividends upon the capital stock of the corporation, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors pursuant to law at any regular or special meeting. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the capital stock, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Sections 170, 173).
Declaration of Dividends
     Section 41. . Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in their absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the corporation, or for such other purpose as the Board of Directors shall think
Dividend Reserve
 
conducive to the interests of the corporation, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 171).
     Section 42. . The fiscal year of the corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
     Section 43. .
Indemnification of Directors, Officers, Employees and Other Agents
          (a) . The corporation shall indemnify its Directors and executive officers to the fullest extent not prohibited by the Delaware General Corporation Law; provided, however, that the corporation may limit the extent of such indemnification by individual contracts with its Directors and executive officers; and, provided, further, that the corporation shall not be required to indemnify any Director or executive officer in connection with any proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person or any proceeding by such person against the corporation or its Directors, officers, employees or other agents unless (i) such indemnification is expressly required to be made by law, (ii) the proceeding was authorized by the Board of Directors of the corporation or (iii) such indemnification is provided by the corporation, in its sole discretion, pursuant to the powers vested in the corporation under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Directors and Executive Officers
          (b) . The corporation shall have power to indemnify its other officers, employees and other agents as set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Other Officers, Employees and Other Agents
          (c) .
Good Faith
               (i) For purposes of any determination under this Bylaw, a Director or executive officer shall be deemed to have acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, to have had no reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful, if his action is based on information, opinions, reports and statements, including financial statements and other financial data, in each case prepared or presented by:
                    (A) one or more officers or employees of the corporation whom the matters the Director or executive officer believed to be reliable and competent in the matters presented;
                    (B) counsel, independent accountants or other persons as to matters which the Director or executive officer believed to be within such person's professional competence; and
 
                    (C) with respect to a Director, a committee of the Board upon which such Director does not serve, as to matters within such Committee's designated authority, which committee the Director believes to merit confidence; so long as, in each case, the Director or executive officer acts without knowledge that would cause such reliance to be unwarranted.
               (ii) The termination of any proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, that he had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
               (iii) The provisions of this paragraph (c) shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the circumstances in which a person may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth by the Delaware General Corporation Law.
          (d) . The corporation shall advance, prior to the final disposition of any proceeding, promptly following request therefor, all expenses incurred by any Director or executive officer in connection with such proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay said amounts if it should be determined ultimately that such person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.
Expenses
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Bylaw, no advance shall be made by the corporation if a determination is reasonably and promptly made (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Directors who were not parties to the proceeding, or (ii) if such quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable, a quorum of disinterested Directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, that the facts known to the decision-making party at the time such determination is made demonstrate clearly and convincingly that such person acted in bad faith or in a manner that such person did not believe to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation.
          (e) . Without the necessity of entering into an express contract, all rights to indemnification and advances to Directors and executive officers under this Bylaw shall be deemed to be contractual rights and be effective to the same extent and as if provided for in a contract between the corporation and the Director or executive officer. Any right to indemnification or advances granted by this Bylaw to a Director or executive officer shall be enforceable by or on behalf of the person holding such right in any court of competent jurisdiction if (i) the claim for indemnification or advances is denied, in whole or in part, or (ii) no disposition of such claim is made within ninety (90) days of request therefor. The claimant in such enforcement action, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting his claim. The corporation shall be entitled to raise as a defense to any such action that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct that make it permissible under the Delaware General Corporation Law for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed. Neither the failure of the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the
Enforcement
 
commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
          (f) . The rights conferred on any person by this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested Directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding office. The corporation is specifically authorized to enter into individual contracts with any or all of its Directors, officers, employees or agents respecting indemnification and advances, to the fullest extent not prohibited by the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
          (g) . The rights conferred on any person by this Bylaw shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a Director, officer, employee or other agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
Survival of Rights
          (h) . To the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law, the corporation, upon approval by the Board of Directors, may purchase insurance on behalf of any person required or permitted to be indemnified pursuant to this Bylaw.
Insurance
          (i) . Any repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall only be prospective and shall not affect the rights under this Bylaw in effect at the time of the alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act that is the cause of any proceeding against any agent of the corporation.
Amendments
          (j) . If this Bylaw or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each Director and executive officer to the full extent not prohibited by any applicable portion of this Bylaw that shall not have been invalidated, or by any other applicable law.
Saving Clause
          (k) . For the purposes of this Bylaw, the following definitions shall apply:
Certain Definitions
               (i) The term "proceeding" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, the investigation, preparation, prosecution, defense, settlement, arbitration and appeal of, and the giving of testimony in, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative.
               (ii) The term "expenses" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, court costs, attorneys' fees, witness fees, fines, amounts paid in settlement or judgment and any other costs and expenses of any nature or kind incurred in connection with any proceeding.
 
               (iii) The term the "corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its Directors, officers, and employees or agents, so that any person who is or was a Director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a Director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
               (iv) References to a "Director," "officer," "employee," or "agent" of the corporation shall include, without limitation, situations where such person is serving at the request of the corporation as a Director, officer, employee, trustee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise.
               (v) References to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the corporation" shall include any service as a Director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such Director, officer, employee, or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the corporation" as referred to in this Bylaw.
     Section 44.
Notices.
          (a) . Whenever, under any provisions of these Bylaws, notice is required to be given to any stockholder, it shall be given in writing, timely and duly deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, and addressed to his last known post office address as shown by the stock record of the corporation or its transfer agent. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 222).
Notice to Stockholders
          (b) . Any notice required to be given to any Director may be given by the method stated in subsection (a), or by facsimile, telex, telegram, commercial courier service, personal delivery, telephone, voice message system or electronic transmission, except that such notice other than one which is delivered personally shall be sent to such address as such Director shall have filed in writing with the Secretary, or, in the absence of such filing, to the last known post office address of such Director.
Notice to Directors
          (c) . If no address of a stockholder or Director be known, notice may be sent to the office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 hereof.
Address Unknown
 
          (d) . An affidavit of mailing, executed by a duly authorized and competent employee of the corporation or its transfer agent appointed with respect to the class of stock affected, specifying the name and address or the names and addresses of the stockholder or stockholders, or Director or Directors, to whom any such notice or notices was or were given, and the time and method of giving the same, shall be conclusive evidence of the statements therein contained. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 222).
Affidavit of Mailing
          (e) . All notices given by mail or commercial courier service shall be deemed to have been given as at the time of dispatch, all notices by personal delivery or telephone shall be deemed to have been given as of receipt by the designee or a person accepting notice on behalf of such Director, and all notices given by facsimile, telex, telegram, voice message system or electronic transmission shall be deemed to have been given as of the sending time recorded at the time of transmission.
Time Notices Deemed Given
          (f) . It shall not be necessary that the same method of giving notice be employed in respect of all Directors, but one permissible method may be employed in respect of any one or more, and any other permissible method or methods may be employed in respect of any other or others.
Methods of Notice
          (g) . The period or limitation of time within which any stockholder may exercise any option or right, or enjoy any privilege or benefit, or be required to act, or within which any Director may exercise any power or right, or enjoy any privilege, pursuant to any notice sent him in the manner above provided, shall not be affected or extended in any manner by the failure of such stockholder or such Director to receive such notice.
Failure to Receive Notice
          (h) . Whenever notice is required to be given, under any provision of law or of the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the corporation, to any person with whom communication is unlawful, the giving of such notice to such person shall not be required and there shall be no duty to apply to any governmental authority or agency for a license or permit to give such notice to such person. Any action or meeting which shall be taken or held without notice to any such person with whom communication is unlawful shall have the same force and effect as if such notice had been duly given. In the event that the action taken by the corporation is such as to require the filing of a certificate under any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the certificate shall state, if such is the fact and if notice is required, that notice was given to all persons entitled to receive notice except such persons with whom communication is unlawful.
Notice to Person with Whom Communication Is Unlawful
          (i) . Whenever notice is required to be given, under any provision of law or the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the corporation, to any stockholder to whom (i) notice of two consecutive annual meetings, and all notices of meetings or of the taking of action by written consent without a meeting to such person during the period between such two consecutive annual meetings, or (ii) all, and at least two, payments (if sent by first class mail) of dividends or interest on securities during a twelve- month period, have been mailed addressed to such person at his address as shown on the records of the corporation and have been returned undeliverable, the giving of such notice to such person shall not be required. Any action or meeting which shall be taken or held without notice to such
Notice to Person with Undeliverable Address
 
person shall have the same force and effect as if such notice had been duly given. If any such person shall deliver to the corporation a written notice setting forth his then current address, the requirement that notice be given to such person shall be reinstated. In the event that the action taken by the corporation is such as to require the filing of a certificate under any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the certificate need not state that notice was not given to persons to whom notice was not required to be given pursuant to this paragraph. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 230).
     Section 45. . Except as otherwise set forth in paragraph (i) of Section 43 of these Bylaws, the Bylaws may be altered or amended or new Bylaws adopted by the affirmative vote of at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock. The Board of Directors shall also have the power, if such power is conferred upon the Board of Directors by the Certificate of Incorporation, to adopt, amend or repeal Bylaws. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Sections 109(a), 122(6)).
Amendments
     Section 46. . The corporation may lend money to, or guarantee any obligation of, or otherwise assist any officer or other employee of the corporation or of its subsidiaries, including any officer or employee who is a Director of the corporation or its subsidiaries, whenever, in the judgment of the Board of Directors, such loan, guarantee or assistance may reasonably be expected to benefit the corporation, except as prohibited by law. The loan, guarantee or other assistance may be with or without interest and may be unsecured, or secured in such manner as the Board of Directors shall approve, including, without limitation, a pledge of shares of stock of the corporation. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to deny, limit or restrict the powers of guaranty or warranty of the corporation at common law or under any statute. (Del. Code Ann., tit. 8, Section 143).
Loans to Officers
     Section 47. .
Annual Report
          (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Bylaw, the Board of Directors shall cause an annual report to be sent to each stockholder of the corporation not later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the close of the corporation's fiscal year. Such report shall include a balance sheet as of the end of such fiscal year and an income statement and statement of changes in financial position for such fiscal year, accompanied by any report thereon of independent accountants or, if there is no such report, the certificate of an authorized officer of the corporation that such statements were prepared without audit from the books and records of the corporation. When there are more than 100 stockholders of record of the
 
corporation's shares, as determined by Section 605 of the California Corporations Code, additional information as required by Section 1501(b) of the California Corporations Code shall also be contained in such report, provided that if the corporation has a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the 1934 Act, that Act shall take precedence. Such report shall be sent to stockholders at least fifteen (15) days prior to the next annual meeting of stockholders after the end of the fiscal year to which it relates.
          (b) If and so long as there are fewer than 100 holders of record of the corporation's shares, the requirement of sending of an annual report to the stockholders of the corporation is hereby expressly waived.


