FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20061102162101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On November 2, 2006, QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended September 24, 2006. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies, QUALCOMM Technology Licensing and QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet segments, and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income, income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow.
     The attached press release presents pro forma information used by management excluding the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, estimated share-based compensation, certain tax adjustments related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D expense. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation is excluded because management views the valuation of options and other share-based compensation as theoretical and unrelated to the Company's operational performance as it is affected by factors that are subject to change on each grant date including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Moreover, it is not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Certain tax adjustments related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D expense in fiscal 2006 is excluded because such expense is incurred infrequently and is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
     Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by eliminating the episodic impact of strategic investments in QSI and items such as acquired in-process R&D, as well as the inherent, non-operational volatility of share-based compensation. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
     The attached press release presents pro forma cash flow information including marketable securities. The Company's management uses pro forma cash flow information including marketable securities to analyze increases and decreases in certain of its liquid assets, comprised of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Management views certain marketable securities as liquid assets available on short notice to fund operations, acquisitions, strategic initiatives, stock repurchases and dividends even though these marketable securities do not meet the definition of cash equivalents in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95, "Statement of Cash Flows." The statements of cash flows reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) present the purchases and sales of marketable securities as inflows and outflows. For internal analysis of the Company's cash position, management does not view these transactions as inflows and outflows from the business, but as cash management transactions. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is a helpful and practical measure of the Company's liquidity.
Table of Contents
     The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. The Company's management uses free cash flow to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
     The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, pro forma is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and total QUALCOMM (GAAP) cash flow and QUALCOMM pro forma changes in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are presented in the attached press release.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
QUALCOMM Contact: Bill Davidson Vice President of Global Marketing and Investor Relations 1-(858) 658-4813 (ph) 1-(858) 651-9303 (fax) e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  November 2, 2006  QUALCOMM Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) today announced results for the fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal 2006 year ended September 24, 2006.
Total QUALCOMM (GAAP) Results:
Total QUALCOMM results are reported in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
     
Fourth Quarter
     
Fiscal 2006
 
QUALCOMM Pro Forma Results:
Pro forma results exclude the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, estimated share-based compensation, certain tax adjustments related to prior years and acquired in-process research and development (R&D) expense.
     
Fourth Quarter
     
Fiscal 2006
Detailed reconciliations between total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results and QUALCOMM pro forma results, and cash flows are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on our Investor Relations web page at .
www.qualcomm.com
 
"Our record performance in fiscal 2006 was a direct result of the focus and innovation delivered by the employees of QUALCOMM and the success of our partners," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chief executive officer of QUALCOMM. "We achieved record revenues, net income and operating cash flow. We shipped a record 207 million MSM chips in fiscal 2006  up from 151 million in fiscal 2005. As of September 2006, there were approximately 402 million subscribers using third generation (3G) CDMA-based networks worldwide as compared to approximately 273 million at the same point in 2005."
"3G networks with mobile broadband capability are now widely deployed across the globe, enhancing opportunities to gain new 3G subscribers and for the migration of existing second generation subscribers to 3G. Looking forward to fiscal 2007, our key priorities will be working with our existing chipset customers to improve their market share, winning new customers for our chipset and software solutions, and continuing to expand the base of 3G wireless networks."
"The competition resulting from our business model has led to continual decreases in selling prices of handsets and significant technology advancements which enable further cost reduction and new revenue streams for our partners. Our Company has built the most valuable and widely licensed portfolio of intellectual property in the wireless industry, which we have consistently made available to all on fair and non-discriminatory terms. We will take the necessary actions to ensure that the technology advances embodied in our intellectual property portfolio are protected and that we are fairly compensated for their use. We will continue to fund an expensive but necessary battle to defend our business in the interest of our shareholders."
Cash and Marketable Securities
QUALCOMM's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $9.9 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, compared to $9.5 billion at the end of the prior quarter and $8.7 billion a year ago. On October 5, 2006, we announced a cash dividend of $0.12 per common share payable on January 4, 2007 to stockholders of record at the close of business on December 7, 2006.
 
Estimated Share-Based Compensation
In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we adopted the revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Share-Based Payment (FAS 123R), which requires that share-based compensation be recorded in our financial statements. We implemented FAS 123R using the modified prospective method. Under this method, prior periods are not revised for comparative purposes. Estimated share-based compensation is included in operating expenses, however, it is not allocated to business segments or included in pro forma results because we do not consider it relevant when evaluating the operating performance of our business. Total QUALCOMM (GAAP) net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 included estimated share-based compensation of $76 million, net of tax, or $0.05 per share.
Research and Development
Pro forma R&D expenses increased 33 percent year-over-year, primarily due to additional engineering resources for the development of integrated circuit products and other initiatives to support low-cost phones, multimedia applications, high-speed wireless Internet access and multi-mode, multi-band, multi-network products and technologies, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, EV-DO Revision A, EV-DO Revision B, WCDMA (including GSM/GPRS/EDGE), HSDPA, HSUPA and OFDMA, and the development of our iMoD display products using MEMS technology.
 
Selling, General and Administrative
Pro forma selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 41 percent year-over-year, largely attributable to increases in employee related expenses to support our growing worldwide customer base and professional fees related to legal activities. The year-over-year increase in QSI SG&A expenses is primarily related to MediaFLO USA.
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2006 effective income tax rates are 22 percent for total QUALCOMM (GAAP) and 26 percent for QUALCOMM pro forma, which are unchanged from our previous estimates.
QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment includes our strategic investments, including our MediaFLO USA subsidiary, and related income and expenses. Total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 included break-even results for the QSI segment consistent with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. The fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 QSI results included $38 million in operating expenses, primarily related to MediaFLO USA, partially offset by $12 million in realized gains on investments. Results for the QSI segment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 reflect tax benefits as a result of QSI's loss before taxes and realized gains on investments that increased our forecasted utilization of capital loss carryforwards.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward-looking and actual results may differ materially. Please see "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this news release for a description of certain risk factors and QUALCOMM's annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a more complete description of risks. Due to their nature, certain
 
income and expense items, such as realized investment gains or losses in QSI, gains and losses on certain derivative instruments or asset impairments, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, the Company excludes forecasts of such items from its business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if the Company incurs any such income or expense items. Estimated share-based compensation in future periods may vary materially from the business outlook as the methodology used to calculate this estimate is dependent on a variety of assumptions which are subject to market fluctuations and other factors.
The following table summarizes total QUALCOMM (GAAP) and QUALCOMM pro forma guidance for the first fiscal quarter and fiscal year 2007 based on the current business outlook. The pro forma business outlook provided below is presented consistent with the presentation of pro forma results provided elsewhere herein. The table includes a footnote to size the risk, approximately $0.04 to $0.06 diluted earnings per share, of Nokia not paying royalties in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 for June quarter shipments. Nokia has publicly stated that they intend to continue to use our patents but not pay royalties after the expiration of their rights under those patents on April 9, 2007 should a new license agreement (or extension of the existing agreement) not be reached by that time. As a result, under generally accepted accounting principles, we will be unable to record royalty revenue attributable to Nokia's sales until a court awards damages or agreement is reached. If we cannot conclude an extension or a new license agreement beyond April 9, 2007, Nokia's rights to sell subscriber products under most of our patents will expire, as will our rights to sell integrated circuits under Nokia's patents. We intend to pursue and obtain injunctions against Nokia's sales as well as damages (which will include interest from the date of infringement) for Nokia's unlicensed sales after April 9, 2007. We will continue to work with Nokia to see if we can reach agreement by April 9, 2007 on terms which we find acceptable but little progress has been made to date. If we are unable to reach agreement, we will aggressively pursue all our legal and business options and assume that Nokia will do likewise.
 
The following estimates are approximations and are based on the current business outlook:
FIRST FISCAL QUARTER
 
FISCAL YEAR
 
CALENDAR YEAR Handset Estimates
 
 
(in millions, except per share data):
Results of Business Segments
Fourth Quarter  Fiscal Year 2006
Third Quarter  Fiscal Year 2006
Fourth Quarter  Fiscal Year 2005
First Quarter  Fiscal Year 2006
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2006
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2005
 
 
Conference Call
QUALCOMM's fourth quarter fiscal 2006 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on November 2, 2006 beginning at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Standard Time (PST) on the Company's web site at: . This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on November 2, 2006 beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. (PST) through November 16, 2006 at 9:00 p.m. (PST). To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 642-1687 and international callers may dial (706) 645-9291. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 7440137. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at for two weeks following the live call.
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
 
Editor's Note: If you would like to view the web slides that accompany this earnings release and conference call, please view the QUALCOMM investor relations website at
http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm
.
QUALCOMM Incorporated () is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on CDMA and other advanced technologies. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., QUALCOMM is included in the S&P 500 Index and is a 2006 FORTUNE 500 company traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol QCOM.
www.qualcomm.com
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies, QUALCOMM Technology Licensing and QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet segments, and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income, income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow.
Pro forma information used by management excludes the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, estimated share-based compensation, certain tax adjustments related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D expense. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation is excluded because management views the valuation of options and other share-based compensation as theoretical and unrelated to the Company's operational performance as it is affected by factors that are subject to change on each grant date including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Moreover, it is not an expense that requires or
 
will require cash payment by the Company. Certain tax adjustments related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D expense in fiscal 2006 is excluded because such expense is incurred infrequently and is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by eliminating the episodic impact of strategic investments in QSI and items such as acquired in-process R&D, as well as the inherent, non-operational volatility of share-based compensation. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
The Company's management uses pro forma cash flow information including marketable securities to analyze increases and decreases in certain of its liquid assets, comprised of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Management views certain marketable securities as liquid assets available on short notice to fund operations, acquisitions, strategic initiatives, stock repurchases and dividends even though these marketable securities do not meet the definition of cash equivalents in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95, "Statement of Cash Flows." The GAAP statements of cash flows present the purchases and sales of marketable securities as inflows and outflows. For internal analysis of the Company's cash position, management does not view these transactions as inflows and outflows from the business, but as cash management transactions. The Company believes that this non-GAAP presentation is a helpful and practical measure of the Company's liquidity.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
 
The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, pro forma is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and total QUALCOMM (GAAP) cash flow and QUALCOMM pro forma changes in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are presented herein.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of development, deployment and commercial acceptance of CDMA-based networks and CDMA-based technology, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA and HSDPA both domestically and internationally; our dependence on major customers and licensees; fluctuations in the demand for CDMA-based products, services or applications; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic loans, investments and transactions the Company has or may pursue; our dependence on third party manufacturers and suppliers; our ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; developments in current and future litigation; the development, deployment and commercial acceptance of the MediaFLO USA network and FLO technology; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in the Company's SEC reports.
 2006 QUALCOMM Incorporated. All rights reserved. QUALCOMM is a registered trademark of QUALCOMM Incorporated. CDMA2000 is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


