FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20070124161043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On January 24, 2007, QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its first quarter ended December 31, 2006. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies, QUALCOMM Technology Licensing and QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet segments, and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income, income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by eliminating the episodic impact of strategic investments in QSI and items such as acquired in-process R&D, as well as the inherent, non-operational volatility of share-based compensation. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
     The attached press release presents pro forma information used by management excluding the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax adjustments related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D expense. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under the executive bonus program, is excluded because management views the valuation of options and other share-based compensation as theoretical and unrelated to the Company's operational performance as it is affected by factors that are subject to change on each grant date, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Moreover, it is not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Certain tax adjustments related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D expense in fiscal 2006 is excluded because such expense is incurred infrequently and is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
     The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. The Company's management uses free cash flow to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
     The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, pro forma is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and total QUALCOMM (GAAP) cash flow and QUALCOMM pro forma cash flow are presented in the attached press release.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
QUALCOMM Contact: John Gilbert Vice President of Investor and Industry Analyst Relations 1-(858) 658-4813 (ph) 1-(858) 651-9303 (fax) e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  January 24, 2007  QUALCOMM Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) today announced results for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 ended December 31, 2006.
Total QUALCOMM (GAAP) First Quarter Results
Total QUALCOMM results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
QUALCOMM Pro Forma First Quarter Results
Pro forma results exclude the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax adjustments related to prior years and acquired in-process research and development (R&D) expense.
 
Detailed reconciliations between total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results and QUALCOMM pro forma results, and cash flow are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on our Investor Relations web page at .
www.qualcomm.com
"Our results this quarter were driven by record 3G handset and chipset shipments," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chief executive officer of QUALCOMM. "The worldwide migration to CDMA-based technologies is accelerating as we continue to execute with our partners to drive innovations into the marketplace."
"An increasing number of subscribers and enterprise customers are benefiting from 3G's higher data rates enabling new applications including multimedia, 3D gaming, downloadable navigation and access to the wireless Internet. It is evident that the innovation and competition our business model enables has benefited wireless consumers, operators and manufacturers globally."
"Based on our current outlook for CDMA-based handset shipments, we are pleased to reaffirm our calendar year 2007 forecast which represents approximately 28% year-over-year growth. We are also reaffirming our most recent fiscal 2007 revenue and pro forma diluted earnings per share guidance as adjusted by our recently announced acquisitions."
 
Cash and Marketable Securities
QUALCOMM's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $10.5 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $9.9 billion at the end of fiscal 2006 and $9.4 billion a year ago. On January 12, 2007, we announced a cash dividend of $0.12 per common share payable on March 30, 2007 to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 2, 2007.
Estimated Share-Based Compensation
Total QUALCOMM (GAAP) net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 included estimated share-based compensation, net of tax, of $87 million, or $0.05 per share, compared to $82 million, or $0.05 per share in the prior year quarter.
Research and Development
Pro forma R&D expenses increased 34 percent year-over-year, primarily due to additional engineering resources for the development of integrated circuit products and other initiatives to support low-cost phones, multimedia applications, high-speed wireless Internet access and multi-mode, multi-band, multi-network products and technologies.
Selling, General and Administrative
 
Pro forma selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 68 percent year-over-year, largely attributable to increases in legal fees and employee related expenses. The year-over-year increase in QSI SG&A expenses is primarily related to MediaFLO USA.
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2007 effective income tax rates are estimated to be 21 percent for total QUALCOMM (GAAP) and 25 percent for QUALCOMM pro forma, compared to fiscal 2006 effective income tax rates of 22 percent for total QUALCOMM (GAAP) and 26 percent for QUALCOMM pro forma. During the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the federal research and development tax credit that expired on December 31, 2005 was extended by Congress for a period of two years beyond the prior expiration date. We recorded a tax benefit of $33 million, or $0.02 diluted earnings per share, related to fiscal 2006 in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 due to this retroactive extension. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 for total QUALCOMM (GAAP) was 17%, primarily as a result of this benefit. Our first quarter fiscal 2007 QUALCOMM pro forma results exclude this tax benefit attributable to fiscal 2006.
QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment includes our strategic investments, including our MediaFLO USA subsidiary, and related income and expenses. Total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 include $0.01 loss per share for the QSI segment. The first quarter of fiscal 2007 QSI results included $42 million in operating expenses, primarily related to MediaFLO USA.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward-looking and actual results may differ materially. Please see "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this news release for a description of certain risk factors and QUALCOMM's annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a more complete description of risks. Due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment gains or losses in QSI, gains and losses on certain derivative instruments or asset impairments, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, the Company excludes forecasts of such items from its business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if the Company incurs any such income or expense items. Estimated share-based compensation in future periods may vary materially from the business
 
outlook as the methodology used to calculate this estimate is dependent on a variety of assumptions which are subject to market fluctuations and other factors.
The following table summarizes total QUALCOMM (GAAP) and QUALCOMM pro forma guidance for the second fiscal quarter and fiscal year 2007 based on the current business outlook. The pro forma business outlook provided below is presented consistent with the presentation of pro forma results provided elsewhere herein.
Our license agreement with Nokia Corp. expires in part on April 9, 2007, with Nokia having an option exercisable through the end of 2008 to extend the agreement. The table includes a footnote to size our estimate of the risk, approximately $0.04 to $0.06 diluted earnings per share, of Nokia not paying royalties in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 for June quarter shipments. Nokia has publicly stated that they intend to continue to use our patents but not pay royalties after the expiration of their rights under those patents on April 9, 2007 should a new license agreement (or extension of the existing agreement) not be reached by that time. As a result, under generally accepted accounting principles, we will be unable to record royalty revenue attributable to Nokia's sales until a court awards damages or agreement with Nokia is reached. If we cannot conclude an extension or a new license agreement beyond April 9, 2007, Nokia's rights to sell certain subscriber products (such as cellular phones and wireless personal digital assistant devices) under most of our patents will expire, as will our rights to sell integrated circuits under Nokia's patents. We intend to pursue and obtain injunctions against Nokia's sales as well as damages (which will include interest from the date of infringement) for Nokia's unlicensed sales after April 9, 2007. While we will continue to work with Nokia to see if we can reach an agreement, there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully resolve this matter before April 9, 2007 on terms which we find acceptable and little progress has been made to date. If we are unable to reach agreement, and Nokia continues to use our unlicensed intellectual property, we will aggressively pursue all our legal and business options and assume that Nokia will do likewise.
 
The following estimates are approximations and are based on the current business outlook:
SECOND FISCAL QUARTER
 
*Shipments in Dec. quarter, reported in Mar. quarter
FISCAL YEAR
 
*Shipments in Sept. to June quarters, reported in Dec. to Sept. quarters
CALENDAR YEAR Handset Estimates
 
 
Results of Business Segments
The following tables, which present segment information, have been adjusted to reflect the 2007 segment presentation (Notes 1 and 2) (in millions, except per share data):
First Quarter  Fiscal Year 2007
Fourth Quarter  Fiscal Year 2006
First Quarter  Fiscal Year 2006
Second Quarter  Fiscal Year 2006
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2006
 
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
Conference Call
QUALCOMM's first quarter fiscal 2007 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on January 24, 2007 beginning at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Standard Time (PST) on the Company's web site at: . This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on January 24, 2007 beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. (PST) through February 7, 2007 at 9:00 p.m. (PST). To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 642-1687 and international callers may dial (706) 645-9291. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 4455735. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at for two weeks following the live call.
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
 
Editor's Note: If you would like to view the web slides that accompany this earnings release and conference call, please view the QUALCOMM Investor Relations website at
http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm
.
QUALCOMM Incorporated () is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on CDMA and other advanced technologies. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., QUALCOMM is included in the S&P 500 Index and is a 2006 FORTUNE 500 company traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol QCOM.
www.qualcomm.com
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies, QUALCOMM Technology Licensing and QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet segments, and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income, income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by eliminating the episodic impact of strategic investments in QSI and items such as acquired in-process R&D, as well as the inherent, non-operational volatility of share-based compensation. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Pro forma information used by management excludes the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax adjustments related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D expense. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times and the effects of fluctuations in the value
 
of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under the executive bonus program, is excluded because management views the valuation of options and other share-based compensation as theoretical and unrelated to the Company's operational performance as it is affected by factors that are subject to change on each grant date, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Moreover, it is not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Certain tax adjustments related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D expense in fiscal 2006 is excluded because such expense is incurred infrequently and is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, pro forma is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and total QUALCOMM (GAAP) cash flow and QUALCOMM pro forma cash flow are presented herein.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to
 
risks associated with: the rate of development, deployment and commercial acceptance of CDMA-based networks and CDMA-based technology, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA and HSDPA both domestically and internationally; our dependence on major customers and licensees; attacks on our licensing business model, including results of current and future litigation as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies, and the costs we incur in connection therewith; fluctuations in the demand for CDMA-based products, services or applications; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic loans, investments and transactions the Company has or may pursue; our dependence on third party manufacturers and suppliers; our ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; the development, deployment and commercial acceptance of the MediaFLO USA network and FLO technology; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in the Company's SEC reports.
2007 QUALCOMM Incorporated. All rights reserved. QUALCOMM is a registered trademark of QUALCOMM Incorporated. CDMA2000is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


