FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20070725162627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 25, 2007, QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its third quarter ended July 1, 2007. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies, QUALCOMM Technology Licensing and QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet segments, and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income, income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
     The attached press release presents pro forma information used by management which excludes the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax adjustments related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under the executive bonus program, is excluded because management views the valuation of options and other share-based compensation as theoretical and unrelated to the Company's operational performance as the share-based compensation is affected by factors that are subject to change on each grant date, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Certain tax adjustments related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
     The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow the Company's business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
     The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, pro forma is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and total QUALCOMM (GAAP) cash flow and QUALCOMM pro forma cash flow are presented in the attached press release.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
QUALCOMM Contact: John Gilbert Vice President of Investor and Industry Analyst Relations 1-(858) 658-4813 (ph) 1-(858) 651-9303 (fax) e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  July 25, 2007  QUALCOMM Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) today announced record results for the third quarter of fiscal 2007 ended July 1, 2007.
Total QUALCOMM (GAAP) Third Quarter Results
Total QUALCOMM results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
QUALCOMM Pro Forma Third Quarter Results
Pro forma results exclude the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax adjustments related to prior years and acquired in-process research and development (R&D) expense.
-more-
 
Detailed reconciliations between total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results and QUALCOMM pro forma results, and cash flow are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on our Investor Relations web page at .
www.qualcomm.com
"We had another tremendous quarter, providing market validation for the innovative products and solutions delivered by our employees and partners worldwide," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chief executive officer of QUALCOMM. "The fundamental drivers of our business remain very strong," continued Dr. Jacobs. "Our record revenue and earnings this quarter reflect continued worldwide demand for innovative third- generation devices and services. We shipped a record 65 million CDMA-based MSM chipsets in the third quarter representing strong year-over-year growth in both 1xEV-DO and WCDMA. Strong
 
March quarter handset shipments demonstrate the continued global adoption of CDMA-based technologies with over 30% growth from the year ago quarter."
"In addition to continued excellent business and financial performance, we also see traction for our initiatives to expand the wireless market. Multiple WCDMA operators have adopted the BREW platform, our MediaFLO system continues to grow as we expand our service footprint in the United States and conduct new trials around the world, and our Snapdragon processor is building momentum in the computing and consumer electronics markets."
"While we continue to execute well and the future of CDMA-based technology is very bright, we are also expending a great amount of time and resources defending our business model. In the most recent quarter, we have made progress in some of these battles, while losing ground in others. We were disappointed with the rulings on behalf of Broadcom, both in the California litigation and in front of the ITC. We continue to believe that the rulings were wrong and are pursuing all avenues to reverse and mitigate the effect of those rulings, including working with our partners who may obtain a license from Broadcom. While we are increasing our guidance for the year, ITC and litigation outcomes are uncertain and could have a material impact on our business and results of operations."
Cash and Marketable Securities
QUALCOMM's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $12.3 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $11.3 billion at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2007 and $9.5 billion a year ago. As of July 1, 2007, $2.6 billion remains authorized for repurchases under our stock repurchase program, net of put options outstanding. On July 13, 2007, we announced a cash dividend of $0.14 per share payable on September 28, 2007 to stockholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2007.
Estimated Share-Based Compensation
Total QUALCOMM (GAAP) net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2007 includes estimated share-based compensation, net of tax, of $76 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, compared to $83 million, or $0.05 per diluted share in the prior year quarter.
 
Research and Development
Pro forma R&D expenses increased 20 percent year-over-year, primarily due to additional engineering resources for the development of integrated circuit products and other initiatives to support low-cost phones, multimedia applications, high-speed wireless Internet access and multi-mode, multi-band, multi-network products and technologies. QSI R&D expenses are related to MediaFLO USA.
Selling, General and Administrative
Pro forma selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 43 percent year-over-year, largely attributable to increases in costs related to litigation and other legal matters and employee related expenses. The year-over-year increase in QSI SG&A expenses is primarily related to MediaFLO USA cooperative marketing expenses.
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2007 effective income tax rate is estimated to be 19 percent for total QUALCOMM (GAAP) compared to our prior estimate of 21 percent. Our fiscal 2007 QUALCOMM pro forma effective income tax rate is estimated to be 23 percent, compared to our previous estimate of 24 percent. The third quarter QUALCOMM (GAAP) and pro forma effective tax rates of 18 percent
 
and 21 percent, respectively, are lower than the expected annual effective tax rates primarily due to our estimate of additional foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal tax rate.
QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment includes our strategic investments, including our MediaFLO USA subsidiary, and related income and expenses. Total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results for the third quarter of fiscal 2007 include $0.04 loss per share for the QSI segment. The third quarter of fiscal 2007 QSI results include $95 million in operating expenses, primarily related to MediaFLO USA.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward-looking and actual results may differ materially. Please see "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this news release for a description of certain risk factors and QUALCOMM's annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a more complete description of risks. Due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment gains or losses in QSI, gains and losses on certain derivative instruments, asset impairments or the impact of the resolution of income tax audits, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, the Company excludes forecasts of such items from its business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if the Company incurs any such income or expense items. In addition, our outlook provides for legal costs which are reasonably consistent with our experience over the past year but does not include any provision for the consequences of injunctions or significant damages or costs related to litigation matters, including support we may agree to provide to our customers. Although Verizon announced it has entered into a license agreement with Broadcom eliminating risk of not being able to import handsets using our chips for use in Verizon's network, a comprehensive settlement between us and Broadcom is unlikely given Broadcom's insistence on terms which could have a material impact on our licensing business. As a result, over the next few months, we will be defending ourselves from Broadcom's attempts to obtain an injunction precluding the sale of certain of our chips sold in handsets for use in the U.S. other than in Verizon's network.
The following table summarizes total QUALCOMM (GAAP) and QUALCOMM pro forma guidance for the fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal 2007 based on the current business outlook. The pro forma business outlook provided below is presented consistent with the presentation of pro forma results provided elsewhere herein.
We are engaged in multiple disputes with Nokia Corp., including litigation over Nokia's obligation to pay royalties for the use of certain of our patents. As a result, under generally accepted accounting principles, we do not expect to be able to record royalty revenue attributable to Nokia's sales starting in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 until an arbitrator (or court) awards damages or the
 
disputes are otherwise resolved by agreement with Nokia. Our estimate of royalties which we believe will be owed by Nokia in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 for June quarter shipments is approximately $0.05 diluted earnings per share, which we have excluded from our current fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal 2007 guidance, compared to our prior estimate of approximately $0.04 to $0.05 diluted earnings per share.
 
     The following estimates are approximations and are based on the current business outlook:
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
Results of Business Segments
The following tables, which present segment information, have been adjusted to reflect the 2007 segment presentation (Note 1) (in millions, except per share data):
Third Quarter  Fiscal Year 2007
Second Quarter  Fiscal Year 2007
Third Quarter  Fiscal Year 2006
Fourth Quarter  Fiscal Year 2006
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2006
Nine Months  Fiscal Year 2007
Nine Months  Fiscal Year 2006
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
Conference Call
QUALCOMM's third quarter fiscal 2007 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on July 25, 2007 beginning at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time (PDT) on the Company's web site at: . This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on July 25, 2007 beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. (PDT) through August 25, 2007 at 9:00 p.m. (PDT). To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 642-1687 and international callers may dial (706) 645-9291. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 6342604. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at for two weeks following the live call.
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
Editor's Note: To view the web slides that accompany this earnings release and conference call, please go to the QUALCOMM Investor Relations website at .
http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm
 
QUALCOMM Incorporated () is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on CDMA and other advanced technologies. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., QUALCOMM is included in the S&P 500 Index and is a 2007 FORTUNE 500 company traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol QCOM.
www.qualcomm.com
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies, QUALCOMM Technology Licensing and QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet segments, and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income, income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Pro forma information used by management excludes the QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax adjustments related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under the executive bonus program, is excluded because management views the valuation of options and other share-based compensation as theoretical and unrelated to the Company's operational performance as the share-based compensation is affected by factors that are subject to
 
change on each grant date, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Certain tax adjustments related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, pro forma is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total QUALCOMM (GAAP) results and QUALCOMM pro forma results and total QUALCOMM (GAAP) cash flow and QUALCOMM pro forma cash flow are presented herein.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of development, deployment and commercial acceptance of CDMA-based networks and CDMA-based technology, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA and HSDPA both domestically and internationally; our dependence on major customers and licensees; attacks on our licensing business model, including results of current and future litigation and arbitration proceedings as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies, and
 
the costs we incur in connection therewith; fluctuations in the demand for CDMA-based products, services or applications; outcomes of audits by taxing authorities; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic loans, investments and transactions the Company has or may pursue; our dependence on third party manufacturers and suppliers; our ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; the development, deployment and commercial acceptance of the MediaFLO USA network and FLO technology; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in the Company's SEC reports.
2007 QUALCOMM Incorporated. All rights reserved. QUALCOMM is a registered trademark of QUALCOMM Incorporated. CDMA2000 is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


