FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20071108160726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On November 8, 2007, QUALCOMM Incorporated ("Qualcomm" or the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended September 30, 2007. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments, and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income, income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
     The attached press release presents pro forma information used by management which excludes the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under the executive bonus program, is excluded because management views the valuation of options and other share-based compensation as theoretical and unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Further, share-based compensation is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Certain tax items related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
     The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow the Company's business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
     The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and Qualcomm pro forma results and between total Qualcomm (GAAP) cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma cash flow are presented in the attached press release.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Qualcomm Contact: John Gilbert Vice President of Investor and Industry Analyst Relations 1-(858)658-4813 (ph) 1-(858)651-9303 (fax) e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  November 8, 2007  Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) today announced results for the fourth fiscal quarter and year ended September 30, 2007.
Total Qualcomm (GAAP) Results
Total Qualcomm results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
     
Fourth Quarter
     
Fiscal 2007
-more-
 
Qualcomm Pro Forma Results
     
Fourth Quarter
     
Fiscal 2007
 
Detailed reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma results and cash flow are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on our Investor Relations web page at .
www.qualcomm.com
"We delivered another record performance in fiscal 2007 because our employees and partners continue to provide industry leading innovative wireless products and services," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chief executive officer of Qualcomm. "We achieved record revenues, net income and operating cash flow and returned a record $2.3 billion of capital to our stockholders through our cash dividend and stock repurchase programs."
"In addition to our strong business and financial performance, our focused execution resulted in many significant achievements in fiscal 2007. More than 530 million wireless subscribers are now benefiting from the widespread and accelerating availability of 3G CDMA mobile broadband networks with advanced wireless devices at competitive prices. We shipped a record 253 million Mobile Station Modem (MSM) chips, a 22% year-over-year increase, and for the second quarter in a row we were named the world's top supplier of semiconductors for wireless applications by iSuppli. We continued to expand our chipset portfolio with the addition of the 7000 series platform for high performance wireless devices and a low cost single chip for EV-DO Rev. A mobile broadband."
"In close partnership with the world's leading content providers, our MediaFLO mobile TV service is now commercially available in the United States and in trials around the world. With ground breaking innovations, such as MediaFLO, Snapdragon and Gobi, and by partnering with new market entrants, such as Google and Skype, Qualcomm is expanding the impact of 3G CDMA beyond traditional products, services and partners."
Cash and Marketable Securities
Qualcomm's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $11.8 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $12.3 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2007 and $9.9 billion a year ago. As of September 30, 2007, $1.5 billion remained authorized for repurchases under our stock repurchase program. From October 1, 2007 through November 7, 2007, we repurchased and retired 13 million shares of our common stock for approximately $525 million. On October 11, 2007, we announced a cash dividend of $0.14 per
 
share payable on January 4, 2008 to stockholders of record at the close of business on December 7, 2007.
Estimated Share-Based Compensation
Total Qualcomm (GAAP) net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 included estimated share-based compensation, net of tax, of $78 million, or $0.05 per diluted share. This compares to $76 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, in the prior year quarter.
Research and Development
Pro forma R&D expenses increased 21 percent year-over-year, primarily due to additional engineering resources for the development of integrated circuit products, next generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower cost phones, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third party operating systems and services platforms. QSI R&D expenses were related to MediaFLO USA.
Selling, General and Administrative
 
Pro forma selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 5 percent year-over-year, largely attributable to increases in costs related to litigation and other legal matters, employee related expenses and other professional fees, partially offset by a gain on the sale of a building. QSI SG&A expenses were primarily related to MediaFLO USA.
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2007 effective income tax rate for total Qualcomm (GAAP) was 9 percent, and our fiscal 2007 pro forma effective tax rate was 22 percent. Our total Qualcomm (GAAP) diluted earnings per share in the fourth quarter and fiscal 2007 included a $0.20 benefit as a result of prior year tax audits completed during the fourth fiscal quarter. This benefit resulted in a negative tax rate for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 for total Qualcomm (GAAP). Fourth quarter fiscal 2007 Qualcomm pro forma results excluded this $0.20 diluted earnings per share benefit to provide a clearer understanding of our ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings.
Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment includes our strategic investments, including our MediaFLO USA subsidiary, and related income and expenses. Total Qualcomm (GAAP) results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 included $0.02 loss per share for the QSI segment. The fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 QSI results included $63 million in operating expenses, primarily related to MediaFLO USA.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward-looking and actual results may differ materially. The "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this news release provides a description of certain risks that we face, and our annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provide a more complete description of risks. Due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment gains or losses, gains and losses on certain derivative instruments or asset impairments, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, we exclude forecasts of such items from our business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if we incur any such income or expense items. In addition, our outlook does not include provisions for the consequences of injunctions or significant possible damages or costs related to litigation matters unless damages have been awarded by a court.
 
We are engaged in multiple disputes with Nokia Corp., including arbitration over Nokia's obligation to pay royalties for the use of certain of our patents. As a result, under generally accepted accounting principles, we are not recording royalty revenue attributable to Nokia's sales after April 9, 2007 until an arbitrator (or court) awards damages or the disputes are otherwise resolved by agreement with Nokia. We have excluded from our fiscal 2008 revenue and earnings guidance our estimate of royalties which we believe Nokia is required to report and pay to us under our existing license agreement in fiscal 2008 of approximately $0.25-$0.30 diluted earnings per share.
We perform periodic audits of the royalties payable by our licensees. As a result of our audit process, we determined during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 that total CDMA-based handset unit shipments and average selling prices (ASPs) should be adjusted for certain periods. The adjustments related only to handset shipments and ASPs and did not impact the amount or timing of our revenue. Based on this new information, we now estimate shipments of 89 million handsets reported in our fourth quarter fiscal 2007, compared to our previous estimate of 92 million handsets. The estimated ASP for such units remains unchanged from our prior guidance of $218. A summary of the adjustments on prior periods is included on our Investor Relations website .
http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm
The following table summarizes total Qualcomm (GAAP) and Qualcomm pro forma guidance for the first fiscal quarter and fiscal year 2008 based on the current business outlook. The pro forma business outlook provided below is presented in a manner that is consistent with the presentation of pro forma results provided elsewhere herein.
 
The following estimates are approximations and are based on the current business outlook:
FIRST FISCAL QUARTER
 
FISCAL YEAR
 
CALENDAR YEAR Handset Estimates (1)(2)
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
Results of Business Segments
The following tables, which present segment information, have been adjusted to reflect the fiscal 2007 segment presentation (Note 1) (in millions, except per share data):
Fourth Quarter  Fiscal Year 2007
Third Quarter  Fiscal Year 2007
Fourth Quarter  Fiscal Year 2006
First Quarter  Fiscal Year 2007
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2007
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2006
 
 
 
Conference Call
Qualcomm's fourth quarter fiscal 2007 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on November 8, 2007 beginning at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Standard Time (PST) on the Company's web site at: . This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on November 8, 2007 beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. (PST) through December 8, 2007 at 9:00 p.m. (PST). To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 642-1687 and international callers may dial (706) 645-9291. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 20553158. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at www.qualcomm.com for two weeks following the live call.
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
Editor's Note: To view the web slides that accompany this earnings release and conference call, please go to the Qualcomm Investor Relations website at .
http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm
Qualcomm Incorporated (www.qualcomm.com) is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on CDMA and other advanced technologies. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., Qualcomm is included in the S&P
 
500 Index and is a 2007 FORTUNE 500 company traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol QCOM.
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments, and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income, income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Pro forma information used by management excludes the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under the executive bonus program, is excluded because management views the valuation of options and other share-based compensation as theoretical and unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Further, share-based compensation is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Certain tax items related to
 
prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and Qualcomm pro forma results and between total Qualcomm (GAAP) cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma cash flow are presented herein.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of deployment of our technologies in wireless networks and of 3G wireless communications, equipment and services, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA, HSPA and OFDMA both domestically and internationally; our dependence on major customers and licensees; attacks on our business model, including results of current and future litigation and arbitration proceedings as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies, and the costs we incur in connection therewith, including potentially damaged relationships with customers and operators who may be impacted by the results of these proceedings; fluctuations in the demand for products, services or applications based on our technologies; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic loans, investments and transactions the Company has or may pursue; our dependence on third party manufacturers and suppliers; our
 
ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; the development, deployment and commercial acceptance of the MediaFLO USA network and FLO technology; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in the Company's SEC reports.
 2007 Qualcomm Incorporated. All rights reserved. Qualcomm is a registered trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated. CDMA2000is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


