FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20080423161038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 23, 2008, QUALCOMM Incorporated ("Qualcomm" or the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its second fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2008. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income, income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
     The attached press release presents pro forma information used by management which excludes the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views the valuation of options and other share-based compensation as theoretical and unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Further, share-based compensation is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Certain tax items related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
     The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow the Company's business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
     The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and Qualcomm pro forma results and between total Qualcomm (GAAP) cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma cash flow are presented in the attached press release.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Qualcomm Contact: John Gilbert Vice President of Investor and Industry Analyst Relations 1-858-658-4813 (ph) 1-858-651-9303 (fax) e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  April 23, 2008  Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM) today announced results for the second fiscal quarter of 2008 ended March 30, 2008.
Total Qualcomm (GAAP) Second Quarter Results
Total Qualcomm results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
-more-
 
Qualcomm Pro Forma Second Quarter Results
Pro forma results exclude the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process research and development (R&D) expense.
Detailed reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma results and cash flow are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on Qualcomm's Investor Relations web page at www.qualcomm.com.
"We delivered another strong quarter as worldwide adoption of 3G CDMA-based products and services continues to accelerate," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chief executive officer of Qualcomm. "Together with our partners, our ongoing focus on innovation, execution and quality provides compelling solutions for the global wireless market. Our financial results reflect another record quarter of both MSM chipset and CDMA-based device shipments."
"We continue to execute on our strategic objectives and are pleased to see positive momentum in the marketplace. Our Gobi mobile internet solution, which provides ubiquitous connection to mobile operator networks worldwide, has been accepted by leading notebook manufacturers, and our Snapdragon platform has multiple design wins with several customers. MediaFLO USA continues its network deployment and FLO-TV will soon be offered by the two largest U.S. operators. We announced a partnership with Citi Cards that brings the total to four of the top 10 banks in the U.S. now taking advantage of the Firethorn solution. The fundamental drivers of our
 
business remain strong, and based on the current business outlook, we are raising fiscal 2008 revenue and earnings per share guidance."
Cash and Marketable Securities
Qualcomm's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $10.6 billion at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2008, compared to $11.3 billion at both the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2008 and the year ago quarter. During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, we increased our quarterly dividend from $0.14 to $0.16 per share. On April 10, 2008, we announced a cash dividend of $0.16 per share payable on June 27, 2008 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 30, 2008.
Estimated Share-Based Compensation
Total Qualcomm (GAAP) net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 included estimated share-based compensation, net of tax, of $88 million or $0.05 per diluted share. This compares to $84 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, in the prior year quarter.
Research and Development
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
Pro forma R&D expenses increased 28 percent year-over-year, primarily due to an increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next-generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower-cost devices, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband,
 
multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third-party operating systems and services platforms. QSI R&D expenses were related to MediaFLO USA.
Selling, General and Administrative
Pro forma selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 11 percent year-over-year, primarily attributable to an increase in professional fees and employee-related expenses, partially offset by a decrease in bad debt expense. QSI SG&A expenses were primarily related to MediaFLO USA.
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2008 effective income tax rate is estimated to be 16 percent for total Qualcomm (GAAP) compared to our prior estimate of 17 percent provided on January 23, 2008. Our fiscal 2008 Qualcomm pro forma effective income tax rate is estimated to be 20 percent compared with our prior estimate of 21 percent. The second quarter total Qualcomm (GAAP) and pro forma effective tax rates of 15 percent and 19 percent, respectively, are lower than the estimated annual effective tax rates primarily due to the change in our annual estimate of foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal tax rate.
Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment includes our strategic investments, including our MediaFLO USA subsidiary, and related income and expenses. Total Qualcomm (GAAP) results for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 included a $0.02 loss per share for the QSI segment. The second quarter of fiscal 2008 QSI results included $76 million in operating expenses, primarily related to MediaFLO USA.
 
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward looking and actual results may differ materially. The "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this news release provides a description of certain risks that we face, and our annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provide a more complete description of risks. Due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment gains or losses, gains and losses on certain derivative instruments or asset impairments, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, we exclude forecasts of such items from our business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if we incur any such income or expense items. In addition, our outlook does not include provisions for the consequences of injunctions or significant possible damages or costs related to litigation matters, unless damages have been awarded by a court.
During the second quarter of 2008, we entered into an agreement with Nokia Corp. to consolidate the arbitration we had filed against Nokia into the pre-existing litigation in Delaware originally filed by Nokia. That case now addresses, among other things, our dispute with Nokia regarding Nokia's obligation to pay royalties for the use of certain of our patents. As a result of the dispute, under generally accepted accounting principles, we are not recording royalty revenue attributable to Nokia's sales after April 9, 2007 until a court awards damages or the disputes are otherwise resolved by agreement with Nokia. We have excluded from our fiscal 2008 revenue and earnings guidance our estimate of royalties which we believe Nokia is required to report and pay to us under our existing license agreement in fiscal 2008.
In late 2004, we discovered that Ericsson and Sony Ericsson were underreporting and underpaying royalties to us for sales of subscriber units under the license agreement between Ericsson and us. In March 2008, the parties resolved the dispute as to both past and future sales. As part of the settlement, the parties have dismissed the arbitration addressing this dispute. The terms of the settlement are consistent with our prior financial guidance.
We continue to be engaged in litigation with Broadcom Corporation in various forums. On December 31, 2007, the Federal District Court in Santa Ana, Calif. issued an injunction as to certain of our products, while enjoining but mandating a limited license with respect to other products. We continue the effort to design products to avoid the claims of the patents found by the jury to infringe
 
Broadcom's patents. We have introduced chipsets ready for commercial-production devices that do not include the accused function of the 6,847,686 patent. We are appealing the adverse findings in this case on an expedited schedule. We have included our estimate of the impact of this ruling in our outlook for fiscal 2008.
The following table summarizes total Qualcomm (GAAP) and Qualcomm pro forma guidance for the third fiscal quarter and fiscal year 2008 based on the current business outlook. The pro forma business outlook provided below is presented in a manner that is consistent with the presentation of pro forma results provided elsewhere herein.
 
The following estimates are approximations and are based on the current business outlook:
THIRD FISCAL QUARTER
 
FISCAL YEAR
 
CALENDAR YEAR Device Estimates (1)(2)
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
     (in millions, except per share data):
Results of Business Segments
Second Quarter  Fiscal Year 2008
First Quarter  Fiscal Year 2008
Second Quarter  Fiscal Year 2007
Third Quarter  Fiscal Year 2007
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2007
Six Months  Fiscal Year 2008
Six Months  Fiscal Year 2007
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
N/A  Not Applicable
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
Conference Call
Qualcomm's second quarter fiscal 2008 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on April 23, 2008 beginning at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time (PDT) on the Company's web site at: www.qualcomm.com. This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at www.qualcomm.com immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on April 23, 2008, beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. PDT through May 23, 2008 at 9:00 p.m. PDT. To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 642-1687 and international callers may dial (706) 645-9291. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 41658202. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at www.qualcomm.com for two weeks following the live call.
Editor's Note: To view the web slides that accompany this earnings release and conference call, please go to the Qualcomm Investor Relations website at http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm.
Qualcomm Incorporated (www.qualcomm.com) is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on CDMA and other advanced technologies. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., Qualcomm is included in the S&P
 
500 Index and is a 2008 FORTUNE 500 company traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol QCOM.
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income, income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Pro forma information used by management excludes the QSI segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views the valuation of options and other share-based compensation as theoretical and unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Further, share-based compensation is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the
 
Company. Certain tax items related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and Qualcomm pro forma results and between total Qualcomm (GAAP) cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma cash flow are presented herein.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of deployment of our technologies in wireless networks and of 3G wireless communications, equipment and services, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA, HSPA and OFDMA both domestically and internationally; attacks on our business model, including results of current and future litigation and arbitration proceedings, as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies, and the costs we incur in connection therewith, including potentially damaged relationships with customers and operators who may be impacted by the results of these proceedings; fluctuations in the demand for products, services or applications based on our technologies; our dependence on major customers and licensees; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic loans, investments and transactions the Company has or may
 
pursue; our dependence on third-party manufacturers and suppliers; our ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; the development, deployment and commercial acceptance of the MediaFLO USA network and FLO technology; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in the Company's SEC reports.
2008 Qualcomm Incorporated. All rights reserved. Qualcomm is a registered trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated. MediaFLO, FLO, FLO-TV, MSM, Gobi and Snapdragon are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated. CDMA2000is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


