FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20081106160813.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     On November 6, 2008, QUALCOMM Incorporated ("Qualcomm" or the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended September 28, 2008. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income, income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
     The attached press release presents pro forma information used by management which excludes the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Further, share-based compensation is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
     The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow the Company's business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
     The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and Qualcomm pro forma results and between total Qualcomm (GAAP) cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma cash flow are presented in the attached press release.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Qualcomm Contact: John Gilbert Phone: 1-858 658-4813 e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  November 6, 2008  Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM), a leading developer and innovator of advanced wireless technologies and data solutions, today announced results for the fourth fiscal quarter and year ended September 28, 2008.
For comparison purposes, we note the following unique items:
Total Qualcomm (GAAP) Results
Total Qualcomm results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Fourth Quarter
 
Fiscal 2008
Qualcomm Pro Forma Results
Pro forma results exclude the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process research and development (R&D) expense.
Fourth Quarter
Fiscal 2008
 
Detailed reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma results and cash flow are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on Qualcomm's Investor Relations web page at www.qualcomm.com.
"I am very pleased with the performance of our businesses this past year, particularly the strong execution of our chipset business and our successful settlement with Nokia. While we continue to see strong growth in 3G CDMA, the current macroeconomic conditions and potential for further economic slowdown creates an uncertain business environment for the next few quarters," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chief executive officer of Qualcomm. "As a result of the credit crisis and the economic uncertainty, our guidance reflects slower end-market device growth for 2009 than previously anticipated and a significant contraction in channel inventory in the first and second fiscal quarters. While we are estimating strong growth for CDMA-based devices in calendar year 2009, driven by a shift to emerging markets, this growth is meaningfully less than we would have forecast just a few weeks ago."
"Although the full impact of the current economic environment is impossible to predict, our balance sheet remains strong and our business operations continue to generate strong cash flow. Our investments in innovative research and development programs, such as Snapdragon, Gobi, mobile TV, mobile commerce and next-generation technologies continue to grow our industry-leading product and intellectual property portfolio and open up exciting new markets for future growth. We are well positioned to navigate through these uncertain times and will continue to focus on our long-term strategic objectives."
 
Cash and Marketable Securities
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $11.3 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, compared to $11.2 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2008 and $11.8 billion a year ago. In October 2008, we received a non-refundable payment of $2.5 billion related to new license and settlement agreements with Nokia. On October 22, 2008, we announced a cash dividend of $0.16 per share payable on January 7, 2009 to stockholders of record at the close of business on December 11, 2008.
There has been a major disruption in U.S. and foreign credit and financial markets that has depressed securities values, and our investments in marketable securities have been impacted. As a result, during the quarter ended September 28, 2008, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments on marketable securities of $327 million, which is approximately 3 percent of the recorded value of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance at September 28, 2008. In addition, at September 28, 2008 and October 31, 2008, we had net unrealized losses on marketable securities of $347 million and $1.26 billion, respectively.
Research and Development
Pro forma R&D expenses increased 29 percent year-over-year, primarily due to an increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next-generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower-cost devices, the integration of wireless technologies with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third-party operating systems and services platforms. QSI R&D expenses were related to MediaFLO USA.
Selling, General and Administrative
 
Pro forma selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 40 percent year-over-year, primarily attributable to an increase in employee-related expenses in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 combined with the impact of a gain on the sale of a building in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. QSI SG&A expenses were primarily related to MediaFLO USA.
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2008 effective income tax rate for total Qualcomm (GAAP) was 17 percent compared with our prior estimate of 16 percent. Our fiscal 2008 pro forma effective tax rate was 20 percent compared with our prior estimate of 19 percent. The fiscal 2008 total Qualcomm (GAAP) and pro forma effective tax rates are higher than our prior estimates primarily due to increased income taxed at the United States federal rate.
Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment is composed of our strategic investments, including our MediaFLO USA subsidiary. Total Qualcomm (GAAP) results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 included a $0.05 loss per share for the QSI segment. The fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 QSI results included $102 million in operating expenses, primarily related to MediaFLO USA.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward looking and actual results may differ materially. The "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this news release provides a description of certain risks that we face, and our annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provide a more complete description of risks.
The recent financial disruption affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in extreme volatility in fixed income, credit and equity markets. The resulting credit crisis has
 
depressed global economic conditions which have the potential to adversely affect our operating results by lowering consumer demand for CDMA-based devices.
In addition, the financial disruption has, and may continue to have, an impact on the value of our marketable securities portfolio and net investment income. Given unprecedented daily market volatility and the significant judgments involved, accurately forecasting other-than-temporary impairments associated with our marketable securities portfolio is extremely difficult and actual results could vary materially. While we do not forecast impairments, our net unrealized losses on marketable securities have increased to $1.26 billion at October 31, 2008, and portions of that amount could be impaired in future periods if market conditions do not improve.
Our outlook does not include provisions for the consequences of injunctions or significant possible damages related to litigation matters, unless damages or injunctions have been awarded by a court. In addition, due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment gains or losses, gains and losses on certain derivative instruments or asset impairments, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, we exclude forecasts of such items from our business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if we incur any such income or expense items.
We entered into new license and settlement agreements with Nokia that cover GSM/GPRS/EDGE, CDMA2000, WCDMA (including HSPA), TD-SCDMA, OFDMA (including LTE, UMB and WiMAX) and other products and resolve all pending litigation between the parties. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we recognized $560 million (attributable to both fiscal 2008 and 2007) in licensing and royalty revenues as a result of the execution of the agreements. Consideration provided to us under the new license agreement with Nokia included, among other things, a non-refundable up-front payment of $2.5 billion, ongoing royalties and the assignment of patents that we recorded in intangible assets in the amount of $1.8 billion. At September 28, 2008, unearned revenues included $3.9 billion related to upfront consideration that resulted from the execution of the new agreements that will be recognized over the remaining term of the license agreement of approximately 14 years. Beginning on the date the patents were assigned in October 2008, the intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life of approximately 15 years.
 
The following table summarizes total Qualcomm (GAAP) and Qualcomm pro forma guidance for the first fiscal quarter and fiscal 2009 based on the current business outlook. The pro forma business outlook provided below is presented consistent with the presentation of pro forma results elsewhere herein.
 
The following estimates are approximations and are based on the current business outlook:
FIRST FISCAL QUARTER
 
FISCAL YEAR
 
CALENDAR YEAR Device Estimates (1)
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
(in millions, except per share data):
Results of Business Segments
Fourth Quarter  Fiscal Year 2008
Third Quarter  Fiscal Year 2008
Fourth Quarter  Fiscal Year 2007
First Quarter  Fiscal Year 2008
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2008
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2007
 
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
Conference Call
Qualcomm's fourth quarter fiscal 2008 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on November 6, 2008 beginning at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Standard Time (PST) on the Company's web site at: www.qualcomm.com. This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at www.qualcomm.com immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on November 6, 2008, beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. PST through December 6, 2008 at 9:00 p.m. PST. To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 642-1687 and international callers may dial (706) 645-9291. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 67351049. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at www.qualcomm.com for two weeks following the live call.
Editor's Note: To view the web slides that accompany this earnings release and conference call, please go to the Qualcomm Investor Relations website at http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm.
Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM) is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on CDMA and other advanced technologies. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., Qualcomm is included in the S&P 100 Index, the S&P 500 Index and is a 2008 FORTUNE 500 company. For more information, please visit www.qualcomm.com.
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm
 
Wireless & Internet segments and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income, income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Pro forma information used by management excludes the QSI segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Further, share-based compensation related to options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition,
 
management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and Qualcomm pro forma results and between total Qualcomm (GAAP) cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma cash flow are presented herein.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of deployment of our technologies in wireless networks and of 3G wireless communications, equipment and services, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA, HSPA and OFDMA both domestically and internationally; the current uncertainty of global economic conditions and its potential impact on demand for our products and our marketable securities portfolio; attacks on our business model, including results of current and future litigation and arbitration proceedings, as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies, and the costs we incur in connection therewith, including potentially damaged relationships with customers and operators who may be impacted by the results of these proceedings; fluctuations in the demand for products, services or applications based on our technologies; our dependence on major customers and licensees; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic loans, investments and transactions we have or may pursue; our dependence on third-party manufacturers and suppliers; our ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; the development, deployment and commercial acceptance of the MediaFLO USA network and FLO technology; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our SEC reports.
Qualcomm is a registered trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated. Snapdragon, Gobi and FLO are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated. CDMA2000 is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA USA). All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


