FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20080723204324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     On July 23, 2008, QUALCOMM Incorporated ("Qualcomm" or the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2008. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income, income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
     The attached press release presents pro forma information used by management which excludes the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views the valuation of options and other share-based compensation as theoretical and unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Further, share-based compensation is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Certain tax items related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
     The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow the Company's business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
     The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and Qualcomm pro forma results and between total Qualcomm (GAAP) cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma cash flow are presented in the attached press release.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Qualcomm Contact: John Gilbert Vice President of Investor and Industry Analyst Relations 1-858-658-4813 (ph) 1-858-651-9303 (fax) e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  July 23, 2008  Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM) today announced results for the third fiscal quarter of 2008 ended June 29, 2008.
Qualcomm's third quarter fiscal 2008 earnings conference call has been re-scheduled to Thursday, July 24, 2008, beginning at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (5:00 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time). Conference call details are included herein.
Total Qualcomm results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Total Qualcomm (GAAP) Third Quarter Results
Pro forma results exclude the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process research and development (R&D) expense.
Qualcomm Pro Forma Third Quarter Results
-more-
 
Detailed reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma results and cash flow are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on Qualcomm's Investor Relations web page at www.qualcomm.com.
"We are pleased to report another strong quarter as the migration to 3G-enabled products continues to accelerate," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chief executive officer of Qualcomm. "We delivered record revenues, up 19 percent year-over-year, and our pro forma earnings per share were at the high end of our prior estimate.
"I am also pleased to announce that we have reached a settlement agreement with Nokia that resolves all litigation between the companies and will allow both of us to focus our efforts on driving the global 3G and 4G markets forward. In addition to providing an up-front royalty payment and other benefits, Qualcomm will also receive on-going royalties for all CDMA standards, as well as single-mode OFDMA. I look forward to providing our updated guidance tomorrow morning."
Cash and Marketable Securities
Qualcomm's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $11.2 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2008, compared to $10.6 billion at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2008 and $12.3 billion a year ago. On July 16, 2008, we announced a cash dividend of $0.16 per share payable on September 26, 2008 to stockholders of record at the close of business on August 29, 2008.
 
Total Qualcomm (GAAP) net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2008 included estimated share-based compensation, net of tax, of $94 million, or $0.06 per diluted share. This compares to $76 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, in the prior year quarter.
Estimated Share-Based Compensation
Research and Development
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
Pro forma R&D expenses increased 29 percent year-over-year, primarily due to an increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next-generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower-cost devices, the integration of wireless technologies with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third-party operating systems and services platforms. QSI R&D expenses were related to MediaFLO USA.
Selling, General and Administrative
 
Pro forma selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 16 percent year-over-year, primarily attributable to an increase in certain professional fees, primarily related to patent activities, and employee-related expenses. QSI SG&A expenses were primarily related to MediaFLO USA.
Without the potential effect of our settlement with Nokia, our fiscal 2008 effective income tax rates are estimated to be 16 percent for total Qualcomm (GAAP) and 19 percent for Qualcomm pro forma. The third quarter total Qualcomm (GAAP) and Qualcomm pro forma effective tax rates of 15 percent and 18 percent, respectively, are lower than the estimated annual effective tax rates primarily due to the change in our estimate of foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal tax rate.
Effective Income Tax Rate
The QSI segment includes our strategic investments, including our MediaFLO USA subsidiary, and related income and expenses. Total Qualcomm (GAAP) results for the third quarter of fiscal 2008 included a $0.04 loss per share for the QSI segment. The third quarter of fiscal 2008 QSI results included $88 million in operating expenses, primarily related to MediaFLO USA.
Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives
 
(in millions, except per share data):
Results of Business Segments
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
N/A  Not Applicable
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
Qualcomm's third quarter fiscal 2008 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on July 24, 2008 beginning at 5:00 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time (PDT) on the Company's web site at: www.qualcomm.com. This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at www.qualcomm.com immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on July 24, 2008, beginning at approximately 6:00 a.m. PDT through August 23, 2008 at 9:00 p.m. PDT. To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 642-1687 and international callers may dial (706) 645-9291. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 57610454. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at www.qualcomm.com for two weeks following the live call.
Conference Call
Editor's Note: To view the web slides that accompany this earnings release and conference call, please go to the Qualcomm Investor Relations website at http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm.
Qualcomm Incorporated (www.qualcomm.com) is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on CDMA and other advanced technologies. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., Qualcomm is included in the S&P
 
500 Index and is a 2008 FORTUNE 500 company traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol QCOM.
The Company presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income, income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Pro forma information used by management excludes the QSI segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views the valuation of options and other share-based compensation as theoretical and unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Further, share-based compensation is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the
 
Company. Certain tax items related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and Qualcomm pro forma results and between total Qualcomm (GAAP) cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma cash flow are presented herein.
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of deployment of our technologies in wireless networks and of 3G wireless communications, equipment and services, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA, HSPA and OFDMA both domestically and internationally; attacks on our business model, including results of current and future litigation and arbitration proceedings, as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies, and the costs we incur in connection therewith, including potentially damaged relationships with customers and operators who may be impacted by the results of these proceedings; fluctuations in the demand for products, services or applications based on our technologies; our
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
dependence on major customers and licensees; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic loans, investments and transactions we have or may pursue; our dependence on third-party manufacturers and suppliers; our ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; the development, deployment and commercial acceptance of the MediaFLO USA network and FLO technology; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our SEC reports.
2008 Qualcomm Incorporated. All rights reserved. Qualcomm is a registered trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated. MediaFLO and FLO are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated. CDMA2000is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


