FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20090128160825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On January 28, 2009, QUALCOMM Incorporated ("Qualcomm" or the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its first fiscal quarter ended December 28, 2008. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income (loss), income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
     Pro forma information used by management, as presented in the attached press release, excludes the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Further, share-based compensation related to options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing pro forma tax rate and after tax earnings. The Company decided to include the benefit of the retroactive extension of the federal research and development tax credit in pro forma results starting in fiscal 2009 because it recurs with relative frequency and would have been included in the Company's pro forma results for the prior year if it had been reenacted in the prior fiscal year. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
     The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow the Company's business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
     The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and Qualcomm pro forma results and between total Qualcomm (GAAP) cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma cash flow are presented in the attached press release.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SAN DIEGO  January 28, 2009  Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM), a leading developer and innovator of advanced wireless technologies, products and services, today announced results for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 ended December 28, 2008, noting that first quarter fiscal 2009 revenues were at the high end of prior guidance and operating income exceeded prior guidance. However, net income and diluted EPS for the quarter were adversely impacted by other-than-temporary impairments to its marketable securities portfolio.
Total Qualcomm (GAAP) First Quarter Results
Total Qualcomm results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
Qualcomm Pro Forma First Quarter Results
Pro forma results exclude the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process research and development (R&D) expense.
Detailed reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma results and cash flow are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on Qualcomm's Investor Relations web page at www.qualcomm.com.
"Despite weak economic conditions, wireless subscribers continue to migrate from second-generation to third-generation CDMA networks around the world. Our first quarter revenues
 
were at the high end of prior guidance and operating income exceeded our prior guidance driven primarily by the mix of higher-end chipsets, higher-priced data capable devices and improved expense management," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chief executive officer of Qualcomm. "I am particularly pleased to see healthy demand for 3G as CDMA-based device shipments in the September quarter were at the high end of our prior expectations and reflect more than 30 percent year-over-year growth. While our operating performance was strong, the distress in the global financial markets continued, resulting in additional impairments of our marketable securities portfolio."
"The CDMA inventory channel has contracted as we expected, and the business environment continues to remain uncertain. Reduced visibility in the marketplace makes it difficult to forecast future inventory levels or predict when a recovery will begin. As a result, while we continue to estimate healthy growth in the CDMA-device market, we have lowered our shipment estimate for calendar year 2009. Although we are not providing earnings per share guidance due to the volatility of financial markets and the impact it has had and may have on our investment portfolio and net income, we are providing revenue, operating income and our other standard guidance. Qualcomm is very fortunate to have a strong balance sheet and operating cash flows in these difficult times and we are committed to supporting our partners and driving the market forward."
Cash and Marketable Securities
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $13.1 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2009, compared to $11.3 billion at both the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and the year ago quarter. On January 16, 2009, we announced a cash dividend of $0.16 per share payable on March 27, 2009 to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 27, 2009.
The distress in global financial markets has continued to suppress the value of our marketable securities portfolio. As a result, in evaluating the recorded values of our marketable securities at December 28, 2008, we determined that $388 million, or approximately 3 percent of the recorded values of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, were other-than-temporarily impaired. In addition, at December 28, 2008 and January 23, 2009, we had net unrealized losses on marketable securities of $1.1 billion.
 
Research and Development
Pro forma R&D expenses increased 19 percent year-over-year, primarily due to an increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next-generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower-cost devices, the integration of wireless technologies with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third-party operating systems and services platforms. QSI R&D expenses were related to MediaFLO USA.
Selling, General and Administrative
Pro forma selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses decreased by 1 percent year-over-year due to a decrease in costs related to litigation and legal matters partially offset by an increase in employee-related expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. QSI SG&A expenses were primarily related to MediaFLO USA.
 
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2009 effective income tax rates are estimated to be 22 percent for total Qualcomm (GAAP) and 25 percent for Qualcomm pro forma. The first quarter total Qualcomm (GAAP) effective tax rate of 24 percent is higher than the estimated annual effective tax rate primarily due to amounts recorded during the quarter for a valuation allowance on capital losses, partially offset by a tax benefit related to fiscal 2008 as a result of the retroactive reenactment of the federal R&D credit.
Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment is composed of our strategic investments, including our MediaFLO USA subsidiary. Total Qualcomm (GAAP) results for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 included a $0.05 loss per share for the QSI segment. The first quarter of fiscal 2009 QSI results included $102 million in operating expenses, primarily related to MediaFLO USA.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward looking and actual results may differ materially. The "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this news release provides a description of certain risks that we face, and our annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provide a more complete description of risks.
The continuing global financial crisis and the resulting slowdown in the worldwide economy is causing contraction in the CDMA-based channel inventory, resulting in lower demand for CDMA-based MSM integrated circuits, adversely affecting our revenues and operating results. In addition, the financial crisis has had, and may continue to have, an impact on the value of our marketable securities portfolio and net investment income (loss), including other-than-temporary impairments in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. While we do not forecast impairments, we do have net unrealized losses on marketable securities that could be recognized in future periods if market conditions do not improve. Given the unprecedented daily market volatility and the significant judgments involved, accurately forecasting other-than-temporary impairments associated with our marketable securities portfolio is extremely difficult and actual results could vary materially. As a result, while we are providing revenue, operating income and our other standard guidance, we are not providing earnings per share guidance.
 
Moreover, our outlook does not include provisions for the consequences of injunctions or significant possible damages related to litigation matters, unless damages or injunctions have been awarded by a court. In addition, due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment gains or losses, gains and losses on certain derivative instruments or asset impairments, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, we exclude forecasts of such items from our business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if we incur any such income or expense items.
The following table summarizes total Qualcomm (GAAP) and Qualcomm pro forma guidance based on the current business outlook. The pro forma business outlook provided below is presented consistent with the presentation of pro forma results elsewhere herein.
 
The following estimates are approximations and are based on the current business outlook:
SECOND FISCAL QUARTER
 
FISCAL YEAR
 
CALENDAR YEAR Device Estimates (1)
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
(in millions, except per share data):
Results of Business Segments
First Quarter  Fiscal Year 2009
Fourth Quarter  Fiscal Year 2008
First Quarter  Fiscal Year 2008
Second Quarter  Fiscal Year 2008
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2008
 
 
 
Conference Call
Qualcomm's first quarter fiscal 2009 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on January 28, 2009 beginning at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Standard Time (PST) on the Company's web site at: www.qualcomm.com. This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at www.qualcomm.com immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on January 28, 2009, beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. PST through February 28, 2009 at 9:00 p.m. PST. To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 642-1687 and international callers may dial (706) 645-9291. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 80271812. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at www.qualcomm.com for two weeks following the live call.
Editor's Note: To view the web slides that accompany this earnings release and conference call, please go to the Qualcomm Investor Relations website at http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm.
Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM) is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on CDMA and other advanced technologies. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., Qualcomm is included in the S&P 100 Index, the S&P 500 Index and is a 2008 FORTUNE 500 company. For more information, please visit www.qualcomm.com.
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm
 
Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income(loss), income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income, diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Pro forma information used by management excludes the QSI segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Further, share-based compensation related to options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing pro forma tax rate and after tax earnings. The Company decided to include the benefit of the retroactive extension of the federal research and development tax credit in pro forma results starting in fiscal 2009 because it recurs with relative frequency and would have been included in the Company's pro forma results for the prior year if it had been reenacted in the prior fiscal year. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
 
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between total Qualcomm (GAAP) results and Qualcomm pro forma results and between total Qualcomm (GAAP) cash flow and Qualcomm pro forma cash flow are presented herein.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of deployment of our technologies in wireless networks and of 3G wireless communications, equipment and services, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA, HSPA and OFDMA both domestically and internationally; the current uncertainty of global economic conditions and its potential impact on demand for our products, services or applications and our marketable securities portfolio; attacks on our business model, including results of current and future litigation and arbitration proceedings, as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies, and the costs we incur in connection therewith, including potentially damaged relationships with customers and operators who may be impacted by the results of these proceedings; our dependence on major customers and licensees; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic loans, investments and transactions we have or may pursue; our dependence on third-party
 
manufacturers and suppliers; our ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; the development, deployment and commercial acceptance of the MediaFLO USA network and FLO technology; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our SEC reports.
Qualcomm is a registered trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated. FLO is a trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated. CDMA2000 is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA USA). All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


