FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20090427074017.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 27, 2009, QUALCOMM Incorporated ("Qualcomm" or the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its second fiscal quarter ended March 29, 2009. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income (loss), income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
     Pro forma information used by management, as presented in the attached press release, excludes the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Further, share-based compensation related to options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing pro forma tax rate and after tax earnings. The Company decided to include the benefit of the retroactive extension of the federal research and development tax credit in pro forma results starting in fiscal 2009 because it recurs with relative frequency and would have been included in the Company's pro forma results for the prior year if it had been reenacted in the prior fiscal year. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
     The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow the Company's business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
     The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled
 
measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP results and pro forma results are presented in the attached press release.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Qualcomm Contact: John Gilbert Phone: 1-858-658-4813 e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  April 27, 2009  Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM), a leading developer and innovator of advanced wireless technologies, products and services, today announced results for the second quarter of fiscal 2009 ended March 29, 2009. While second quarter fiscal 2009 revenues were at the high end of prior guidance, strong operating results were offset by costs related to a settlement and patent agreement with Broadcom Corporation. In addition, results for the quarter were adversely impacted by other-than-temporary impairments to marketable securities.
Second Quarter Results (GAAP)
 
Pro Forma Second Quarter Results
Pro forma results exclude the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process research and development (R&D) expense.
 
Detailed reconciliations between results reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and pro forma results are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on Qualcomm's Investor Relations web page at www.qualcomm.com.
"Global demand for 3G-enabled products and services remains strong despite the current economic environment," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chief executive officer of Qualcomm. "Our second quarter revenues were at the high end of prior guidance, and I am pleased with the strong operating performance of our business. The recent settlement with Broadcom will resolve all pending litigation between the parties, and while this settlement adversely impacted our second quarter results, eliminating uncertainty, employee distraction and cost related to protracted litigation is a positive for our stockholders, customers, partners and the wireless industry."
"While the business environment remains uncertain and the continued distress in global financial markets resulted in additional impairments to our marketable securities, we believe the CDMA inventory channel has stabilized, and we are seeing some replenishment of products driven primarily by emerging markets.  We continue to grow key research and development programs to further our technology leadership and drive future growth, while closely managing SG&A expenses.  Demand for CDMA-based products and services remains healthy, and our calendar year 2009 device shipment estimate remains unchanged."
Cash and Marketable Securities
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $14.0 billion at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2009, compared to $13.1 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and $10.6 billion a year ago. During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we increased our quarterly dividend from $0.16 to $0.17 per share. On April 8, 2009, we announced a cash dividend of $0.17 per share, payable on June 26, 2009 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 29, 2009.
The distress in global financial markets has continued to affect the value of our marketable securities. As a result, we determined that $204 million, or approximately 1 percent of the recorded values of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at March 29, 2009, were other-than-temporarily impaired. In addition, at March 29, 2009 and April 17, 2009, we had net unrealized losses on marketable securities of $898 million and $634 million, respectively.
 
Research and Development
Pro forma R&D expenses increased 7 percent year-over-year, primarily due to an increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next-generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services. QSI R&D expenses were related to our FLO TV subsidiary, formerly MediaFLO USA.
Selling, General and Administrative
Pro forma selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses decreased by 13 percent year-over-year, a majority of which is due to cost reduction activities. QSI SG&A expenses were primarily related to FLO TV.
Litigation Settlement
The second quarter of fiscal 2009 operating expenses included a $748 million litigation settlement charge related to a settlement and patent agreement with Broadcom. The agreement provides for the
 
receipt of certain assets in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 and will resolve all pending litigation between the parties.
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2009 effective income tax rates are estimated to be 35 percent for GAAP and 31 percent for pro forma.  The second quarter effective tax rates of negative 186 percent for GAAP and 131 percent for pro forma differ from the annual rates due to the impact of the discrete tax benefit related to the litigation settlement charge associated with the settlement and patent agreement with Broadcom at a rate less than the United States federal rate. In addition, the second quarter GAAP effective tax rate differs from the estimated annual effective tax rate due to amounts recorded during the quarter to adjust our net deferred tax assets to reflect the future impact of California budget legislation enacted February 20, 2009.
Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment is composed of our strategic investments, including our FLO TV subsidiary.  GAAP results for the second quarter of fiscal 2009 included a $0.03 loss per share for the QSI segment. The second quarter of fiscal 2009 QSI results included $86 million in operating expenses, primarily related to FLO TV.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward looking and actual results may differ materially. The "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this news release provides a description of certain risks that we face, and our annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provide a more complete description of risks.
We expect the global financial crisis and resulting slowdown in the worldwide economy to continue to cause lower demand for CDMA-based products in various regions. We expect a greater mix of lower-priced CDMA-based products for emerging markets to impact our financial results for the second half of fiscal 2009 as compared to the second half of fiscal 2008. In addition, the financial crisis has had, and may continue to have, an impact on the value of our marketable securities and net investment income (loss). While we do not forecast impairments, we do have unrealized losses on marketable securities that could be recognized in future periods if market conditions do not improve. Given the unprecedented daily market
 
volatility and the significant judgments involved, accurately forecasting other-than-temporary impairments associated with our marketable securities is extremely difficult and actual results could vary materially. As a result, while we are providing revenue, operating income and our other standard guidance, we are not providing earnings per share guidance.
Moreover, our outlook does not include provisions for the consequences of injunctions or significant possible damages related to litigation matters, unless damages or injunctions have been awarded by a court. In addition, due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment gains or losses, gains and losses on certain derivative instruments or asset impairments, cannot be accurately forecast.  Accordingly, we exclude forecasts of such items from our business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if we incur any such income or expense items. 
The following table summarizes GAAP and pro forma guidance based on the current business outlook. The pro forma business outlook provided below is presented consistent with the presentation of pro forma results elsewhere herein.
 
The following estimates are approximations and are based on the current business outlook:
THIRD FISCAL QUARTER
 
FISCAL YEAR
 
CALENDAR YEAR Device Estimates (1)
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
(in millions, except per share data):
Results of Business Segments
Second Quarter  Fiscal Year 2009
First Quarter  Fiscal Year 2009
Second Quarter  Fiscal Year 2008
Third Quarter  Fiscal Year 2008
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2008
 
Six Months  Fiscal Year 2009
Six Months  Fiscal Year 2008
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
Conference Call
Qualcomm's second quarter fiscal 2009 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on April 27, 2009 beginning at 5:00 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time (PDT) on the Company's web site at: www.qualcomm.com. This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information. The conference call will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at www.qualcomm.com immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on April 27, 2009, beginning at approximately 9:00 a.m. PDT through May 27, 2009 at 9:00 p.m. PDT. To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 642-1687 and international callers may
 
dial (706) 645-9291. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 96824653. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at www.qualcomm.com for two weeks following the live call.
Editor's Note: To view the web slides that accompany this earnings release and conference call, please go to the Qualcomm Investor Relations web site at http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm
Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM) is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on CDMA and other advanced technologies. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., Qualcomm is included in the S&P 100 Index, the S&P 500 Index and is a 2009 FORTUNE 500 company. For more information, please visit www.qualcomm.com.
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income, net investment income (loss), income before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Pro forma information used by management excludes the QSI segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process
 
R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Further, share-based compensation related to options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items related to prior years are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing pro forma tax rate and after tax earnings. The Company decided to include the benefit of the retroactive extension of the federal research and development tax credit in pro forma results starting in fiscal 2009 because it recurs with relative frequency and would have been included in the Company's pro forma results for the prior year if it had been reenacted in the prior fiscal year. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength.  In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP results and pro forma results are presented herein.
 
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of deployment of our technologies in wireless networks and of 3G wireless communications, equipment and services, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA, HSPA and OFDMA both domestically and internationally; the current uncertainty of global economic conditions and its potential impact on demand for our products, services or applications and the value of our marketable securities; attacks on our business model, including results of current and future litigation and arbitration proceedings, as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies, and the costs we incur in connection therewith, including potentially damaged relationships with customers and operators who may be impacted by the results of these proceedings; our dependence on major customers and licensees; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic loans, investments and transactions we have or may pursue; our dependence on third-party manufacturers and suppliers; our ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; the development, deployment and commercial acceptance of the FLO TV network and FLO technology; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our SEC reports.
Qualcomm is a registered trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated. FLO and FLO TV are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated. CDMA2000 is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA USA). All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


