FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20090422193002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 22, 2009, QUALCOMM Incorporated ("Qualcomm" or the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its second fiscal quarter ended March 29, 2009. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Qualcomm has rescheduled its second quarter earnings call to Monday, April 27, 2009 at 5:00 a.m. PT.
The Company is postponing its earnings release and call until Monday, April 27, 2009 due to advanced settlement discussions with Broadcom regarding a global settlement of all disputes between the parties which if reached, would have an impact on the Company's financial results for the fiscal second quarter.  No assurance can be given that the Company and Broadcom will be able to reach agreement on the terms of a global settlement.  Neither company will comment further at this time.
Revenue and operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2009, excluding the potential impact of the Broadcom agreement, met or exceeded prior guidance. Further details on the Company's second fiscal quarter results and full fiscal year guidance will be provided in the earnings release and conference call.
Except for the impact of this agreement, the Company had completed all of its period ending accounting processes and procedures necessary to report its second fiscal quarter results.   
Qualcomm remains in its quiet period and Qualcomm Investor Relations representatives will not be available to return phone calls until after the conclusion of the conference call. Questions during the live call will be taken from investment professionals only.
 
Qualcomm Second Quarter Fiscal 2009 Earnings Release
Qualcomm Conference Call
Rebroadcast of Conference Call
Financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call will be posted on Qualcomm's Investor Relations web site at www.qualcomm.com immediately prior to the commencement of the conference call.
The conference call will include a discussion of non-GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) financial measures. Information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to Qualcomm's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP will be posted on Qualcomm's Investor Relations web site at www.qualcomm.com immediately prior to the commencement of the conference call.
Historical news releases and financial documents are available on the Company's web site at www.qualcomm.com


