FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20091104170608.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On November 4, 2009, QUALCOMM Incorporated ("Qualcomm" or the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended September 27, 2009. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income (loss), net investment income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
     Pro forma information used by management, as presented in the attached press release, excludes the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Further, share-based compensation related to options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items that were recorded in reported earnings in each fiscal year presented but were unrelated to the fiscal year in which they were recorded are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing pro forma tax rate and after tax earnings. The Company decided to include the benefit of the retroactive extension of the federal research and development tax credit in pro forma results starting in fiscal 2009 because it recurs with relative frequency and would have been included in the Company's pro forma results for the prior year if it had been reenacted in the prior fiscal year. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
     The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow the Company's business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
     The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance
Table of Contents
with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP results and pro forma results are presented in the attached press release.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Qualcomm Contact: John Gilbert Phone: 1-858-658-4813 e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  November 4, 2009  Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM), a leading developer and innovator of advanced wireless technologies, products and services, today announced results for the fourth fiscal quarter and year ended September 27, 2009.
"I am very pleased with the performance of our businesses this past year, despite a challenging and uncertain global economic environment," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chairman and CEO of Qualcomm. "Our revenues for fiscal year 2009 were in line with our guidance at the outset of the year.  Our operating performance remained strong, driven by continued 3G growth, execution in our chipset business and disciplined management of operating expenses. I am also pleased to announce that we recently extended our license agreement with Samsung covering both 3G and 4G."
"We continue to forecast growth for 3G CDMA in 2009, despite industry forecasts of a decline in the total handset market. We anticipate accelerated CDMA device growth in calendar year 2010 as the global migration to 3G continues. Our broad chipset portfolio continues to expand, including additional low-cost single-chip solutions to further enable the 3G migration as well as increased investments in software and application processors to strengthen our leadership position in supporting higher-end, feature-rich devices. We remain well positioned to drive innovation given our strong balance sheet and operating cash flow while maintaining our focus on overall operating expenses."
 
For comparison purposes, we note the following items:
GAAP Results
Qualcomm results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
    
Fourth Quarter
 
     
Fiscal 2009
Pro Forma Results
Pro forma results exclude the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items related to prior years and acquired in-process research and development (R&D) expense.
     
Fourth Quarter
 
     
Fiscal 2009
Detailed reconciliations between results reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and pro forma results are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on Qualcomm's Investor Relations web page at www.qualcomm.com.
Cash and Marketable Securities
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $17.7 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, compared to $15.7 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2009 and $11.3 billion a year ago. On October 2, 2009, we announced a cash dividend of $0.17 per share, payable on December 23, 2009 to stockholders of record at the close of business on November 25, 2009.
The value of our marketable securities has improved significantly as financial markets have stabilized. At September 27, 2009, we had net unrealized gains on marketable securities of $674 million as compared to $25 million of net unrealized losses as of June 28, 2009.
 
Research and Development
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
Pro forma R&D expenses primarily related to the development of integrated circuit products, next-generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services. Pro forma R&D expenses decreased 2 percent year-over-year, primarily due to cost reduction efforts and a decrease in other employee-related expenses. QSI R&D expenses were related to our FLO TV subsidiary.
Selling, General and Administrative
Pro forma selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses decreased by 13 percent year-over-year, primarily due to cost reduction efforts and a decrease in other employee-related expenses. QSI SG&A expenses were primarily related to FLO TV.
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2009 effective income tax rates were 23 percent for GAAP and 28 percent for pro forma.  The fourth quarter and fiscal 2009 GAAP results included a $155 million tax benefit as a result of tax audits to adjust our estimates of uncertain tax positions for prior years. This tax
 
benefit was excluded from our fiscal 2009 pro forma results to provide a clearer understanding of our ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings.
Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment is composed of our strategic investments, including FLO TV.  GAAP results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 included a $0.05 diluted loss per share for the QSI segment. The fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 QSI results included $93 million in operating expenses, primarily related to FLO TV.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward looking and actual results may differ materially. The "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this news release provides a description of certain risks that we face, and our annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provide a more complete description of risks.
The volatility in financial markets may continue to have an impact on the value of our marketable securities and net investment income (loss). While we do not forecast impairments, we have temporary unrealized losses on marketable securities that could be recognized as other-than-temporary losses in future periods if market conditions do not improve.
Our outlook does not include provisions for the consequences of injunctions, damages or fines related to any pending legal matters. In addition, due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment gains or losses, gains and losses on certain derivative instruments or asset impairments, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, we exclude forecasts of such items from our business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if we incur any such income or expense items. 
The following table summarizes GAAP and pro forma guidance based on the current business outlook. The pro forma business outlook provided below is presented consistent with the presentation of pro forma results elsewhere herein.
 
The following estimates are approximations and are based on the current business outlook:
FIRST FISCAL QUARTER
 
FISCAL YEAR
 
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
(in millions, except per share data):
Results of Business Segments
Fourth Quarter  Fiscal Year 2009
Third Quarter  Fiscal Year 2009
Fourth Quarter  Fiscal Year 2008
First Quarter  Fiscal Year 2009
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2009
Twelve Months  Fiscal Year 2008
 
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
Conference Call
Qualcomm's fourth quarter fiscal 2009 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on November 4, 2009, beginning at 2:30 p.m. Pacific Time (PT) on the Company's web site at: www.qualcomm.com. This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information and will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at www.qualcomm.com immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on November 4, 2009, beginning at approximately 6:30 p.m. PT through December 4, 2009 at 10:00 p.m. PT. To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 642-1687 and international callers may dial (706) 645-9291. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 35746873. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at www.qualcomm.com for two weeks following the live call.
Editor's Note: To view the web slides that accompany this earnings release and conference call, please go to the Qualcomm Investor Relations web site at http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm
 
Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM) is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on CDMA and other advanced technologies. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., Qualcomm is included in the S&P 100 Index, the S&P 500 Index and is a 2009 FORTUNE 500 company. For more information, please visit www.qualcomm.com.
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis, (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income (loss), net investment income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Pro forma information used by management excludes the QSI segment, certain estimated share-based compensation, certain tax items and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Estimated share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that
 
requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Further, share-based compensation related to options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items that were recorded in reported earnings in each fiscal year presented but were unrelated to the fiscal year in which they were recorded are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing pro forma tax rate and after tax earnings. The Company decided to include the benefit of the retroactive extension of the federal research and development tax credit in pro forma results starting in fiscal 2009 because it recurs with relative frequency and would have been included in the Company's pro forma results for the prior year if it had been reenacted in the prior fiscal year. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP results and pro forma results are presented herein.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of deployment and adoption of our technologies in
 
wireless networks and of wireless communications, equipment and services, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA, HSPA and OFDMA both domestically and internationally; the current uncertainty of global economic conditions and its potential impact on demand for our products, services or applications and the value of our marketable securities; attacks on our business model, including results of current and future litigation and arbitration proceedings, as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies, and the costs we incur in connection therewith, including potentially damaged relationships with customers and operators who may be impacted by the results of these proceedings; our dependence on major customers and licensees; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic investments and transactions we have or may pursue; our dependence on third-party manufacturers and suppliers; our ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; the development, deployment and commercial acceptance of the FLO TV network and FLO technology; the development and commercial acceptance of the IMOD display technology; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our SEC reports.
Qualcomm is a registered trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated. FLO and FLO TV are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated. CDMA2000 is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA USA). All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


