FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20100421161121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 21, 2010, QUALCOMM Incorporated ("Qualcomm" or the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its second fiscal quarter ended March 28, 2010. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis; (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments; and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income (loss), net investment income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
     Pro forma information used by management, as presented in the attached press release, excludes the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain share-based compensation, certain tax items and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Further, share-based compensation related to stock options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items that were recorded in reported earnings in each fiscal year presented, but were unrelated to the fiscal year in which they were recorded, are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing pro forma tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
     The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow the Company's business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
     The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP results and pro forma results are presented in the attached press release.
 
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Qualcomm Contact: Warren Kneeshaw Phone: 1-858-658-4813 e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  April 21, 2010  Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM), a leading developer and innovator of advanced wireless technologies, products and services, today announced results for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 ended March 28, 2010.
"We delivered strong financial results this quarter, driven by healthy 3G device shipments and greater than expected demand for our chipsets. 3G subscribers have now surpassed 1 billion worldwide and with the 3G auction process underway in India, the 3G footprint continues to expand globally," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chairman and CEO of Qualcomm. "Calendar year 2010 3G device shipments are progressing in line with our expectations, and although we're continuing to operate in a competitive chipset pricing environment, we're positioned to continue to grow share through new partner engagements and our broad, industry-leading 3G chipset roadmap. Our business is executing well and we are pleased to be raising our earnings guidance for the fiscal year."
Second Quarter Results (GAAP)
 
 
Pro Forma Second Quarter Results
Pro forma results exclude the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain share-based compensation, certain tax items that are not related to the current year and acquired in-process research and development (R&D) expense.
 
Detailed reconciliations between results reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and pro forma results are included at the end of this news release. Prior period reconciliations are presented on Qualcomm's Investor Relations web page at www.qualcomm.com.
 
Cash and Marketable Securities
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $18.2 billion at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2010, compared to $18.9 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and $14.0 billion a year ago. On April 8, 2010, we announced a cash dividend of $0.19 per share payable on June 25, 2010 to stockholders of record as of May 28, 2010.
Research and Development
 
Pro forma R&D expenses increased 8 percent year-over-year, primarily due to an increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next-generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services. QSI R&D expenses were primarily related to our FLO TV subsidiary.
Selling, General and Administrative
Pro forma selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 6 percent year-over-year, primarily due to an increase in patent-related costs. QSI SG&A expenses increased 133 percent year-over-year, primarily due to an increase in selling and marketing expenses related to FLO TV.
 
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2010 effective income tax rates are estimated to be approximately 21 percent for GAAP and approximately 21 to 22 percent for pro forma. Our estimate of the fiscal 2010 GAAP effective tax rate includes tax expense of approximately $130 million that arises because deferred revenue related to the 2008 license and settlement agreements with Nokia is taxable in fiscal 2010, but the resulting deferred tax asset will reverse in future years when our state tax rate will be lower as a result of California tax legislation enacted in 2009. This tax expense was excluded from our pro forma results to provide a clearer understanding of our ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings.
Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment is composed of our strategic investments, including FLO TV. GAAP results for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 included a $0.05 diluted loss per share for the QSI segment. The second quarter of fiscal 2010 QSI results included $134 million in operating expenses, primarily related to FLO TV.
Business Outlook and Description of Changes to QTL Metrics
The following statements are forward looking and actual results may differ materially. The "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this news release provides a description of certain risks that we face, and our annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provide a more complete description of risks.
As a result of our analysis of information recently received from licensee audits and public disclosures concerning licensee market share, unit shipments and average selling prices (ASPs) as well as our evaluation of the evolving CDMA-based device industry (particularly the growth of the modem card/module device segment), we have adjusted some of the underlying assumptions used to estimate licensee unit shipments and ASPs, which we believe will improve our estimates. Also, beginning with this earnings release, we will provide investors with the total subscriber device sales reported to us by subscriber licensees during the relevant period, without adjustment for the differences in how licensees report sales information (e.g., some licensees report selling prices net of permitted deductions, such as transportation, insurance and packing costs, while other licensees do not). We believe the changes referenced
 
above will continue to help investors understand important trends in our licensing business. We plan to discuss these changes in greater detail on our earnings call beginning at 1:45pm Pacific Time today.
For comparative purposes only, we are providing a table herein entitled "Changes to QTL Metrics" to show for fiscal 2009 and for the first quarter of fiscal 2010: 1) total reported subscriber device sales; 2) our prior ASP estimates and subscriber device shipment estimates; and 3) ASP estimates and subscriber device shipment estimates applying our adjusted estimation assumptions.
Our outlook does not include provisions for the consequences of injunctions, damages or fines related to any pending legal matters unless awarded or imposed by a court, governmental entity or other regulatory body. In addition, due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment gains or losses, gains and losses on certain derivative instruments or asset impairments, cannot be accurately forecast. While we do not forecast impairments, we have temporary unrealized losses on marketable securities that could be recognized as other-than-temporary losses in future periods if financial conditions affecting those securities do not improve. Accordingly, we exclude forecasts of such items from our business outlook, and actual results may vary materially from the business outlook if we incur any such income or expense items.
The following table summarizes GAAP and pro forma guidance based on the current business outlook. The pro forma business outlook presented below is consistent with the presentation of pro forma results elsewhere herein.
 
The following estimates are approximations and are based on the current business outlook:
THIRD FISCAL QUARTER
FISCAL YEAR
CALENDAR YEAR Device Estimates (2)
 
 
 
Note : Fiscal year device shipments by licensees occur in the September to June quarters and are reported to Qualcomm in the December to September fiscal quarters, one quarter in arrears.
Sums may not equal total due to rounding.
 
(in millions, except per share data):
Results of Business Segments
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
Conference Call
Qualcomm's second quarter fiscal 2010 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on April 21, 2010 beginning at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (PT) on the Company's web site at: www.qualcomm.com. This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information and will include a discussion of "non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at www.qualcomm.com immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on April 21, 2010, beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. PT through May 21, 2010 at 9:00 p.m. PT. To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 642-1687 and international callers may dial (706) 645-9291. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 5349272. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at www.qualcomm.com for two weeks following the live call.
Editor's Note: To view the web slides that accompany this earnings release and conference call, please go to the Qualcomm Investor Relations website at: http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm
Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM) is a leader in developing and delivering innovative digital wireless communications products and services based on CDMA and other advanced technologies. Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., Qualcomm is included in the S&P 100
 
Index, the S&P 500 Index and is a 2010 FORTUNE 500 company. For more information, please visit
www.qualcomm.com
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents pro forma financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis; (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments; and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Pro forma measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income (loss), net investment income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using pro forma information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on pro forma financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Pro forma information used by management excludes the QSI segment, certain share-based compensation, certain tax items and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Moreover, it is generally not an expense that requires or will require cash payment by the Company. Further, share-based compensation related to stock options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items that were recorded in reported earnings in each
 
fiscal year presented, but were unrelated to the fiscal year in which they were recorded, are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing pro forma tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
The non-GAAP pro forma financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "pro forma" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of pro forma results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP results and pro forma results are presented herein.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of deployment and adoption of, and demand for, our technologies in wireless networks and of wireless communications, equipment and services, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA, HSPA, TD-SCDMA and OFDMA both domestically and internationally; the uncertainty of global economic conditions and its potential impact on demand for our products, services or applications and the value of our marketable securities; attacks on our business model, including results of current and future litigation and arbitration proceedings, as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies, and the costs we incur in connection therewith, including potentially damaged relationships with customers and operators who may be impacted by the results of
 
these proceedings; our dependence on major customers and licensees; our dependence on third-party manufacturers and suppliers; our ability to maintain and improve operational efficiencies and profitability; the development, deployment and commercial acceptance of the FLO TV network and FLO technology; the development and commercial acceptance of the mirasol display technology; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic investments and transactions we have or may pursue; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our SEC reports, including the report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 27, 2009 and most recent Form 10-Q. The Company undertakes no obligation to update, or continue to provide information with respect to, any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Qualcomm is a registered trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated. FLO TV and FLO are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated. mirasol is a registered trademark of Qualcomm MEMS Technologies, Inc. CDMA2000 is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA USA). All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIRD FISCAL QUARTER
FISCAL YEAR
N/A - Not applicable
 
 
 


