FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20101103161005.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On November 3, 2010, QUALCOMM Incorporated ("Qualcomm" or the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended September 26, 2010. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The attached press release presents certain financial information that is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); such information is referred to as "Non-GAAP." Non-GAAP financial information is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis; (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments; and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Non-GAAP measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income (loss), net investment income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using Non-GAAP information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on Non-GAAP financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
     Non-GAAP information used by management, as presented in the attached press release, excludes the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain share-based compensation, certain tax items and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Further, share-based compensation related to stock options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items that were recorded in reported earnings in each fiscal year presented, but were unrelated to the fiscal year in which they were recorded, are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing Non-GAAP tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
     The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow the Company's business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
     The Non-GAAP financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "Non-GAAP" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of Non-GAAP results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP results and Non-GAAP results are presented in the attached press release.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Qualcomm Contact: Warren Kneeshaw Phone: 1-858-658-4813 e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  November 3, 2010  Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM), a leading developer and innovator of advanced wireless technologies, products and services, today announced results for the fourth fiscal quarter and year ended September 26, 2010.
"I am very pleased with our performance this year as we delivered record earnings per share and record MSM chipset volumes," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chairman and CEO of Qualcomm. "Our outlook includes strong revenue and earnings growth in fiscal 2011. In the coming year, we expect continued strong growth in CDMA-based device shipments, including smartphones and other data-centric devices, driven by the global adoption of 3G and accelerating consumer demand for wireless data. With our industry-leading chipset roadmap, broad licensing program and increasing number of global partners, we are well positioned to take advantage of these industry trends."
GAAP Results
Qualcomm results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
Non-GAAP Results
Non-GAAP results exclude the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain share-based compensation, certain tax items that are not related to the current year and acquired in-process research and development (R&D) expense.
 
Detailed reconciliations between results reported in accordance with GAAP and Non-GAAP results are included at the end of this news release.
In the year-over-year comparisons summarized above, the following should be noted: fiscal 2009 results (GAAP and Non-GAAP) included a $783 million charge related to a litigation settlement and patent agreement with Broadcom Corporation, including $35 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009; both the fourth quarter and fiscal 2009 results (GAAP and Non-GAAP) also included a $230 million charge related to the Korea Fair Trade Commission fine; GAAP results in fiscal 2009 included a $155 million tax benefit related to prior years as a result of tax audits; net income was favorably impacted in fiscal 2010 (GAAP and Non-GAAP) due to a significant increase in net investment income; and fiscal 2009 operating and free cash flow included the receipt of a $2.5 billion payment related to the license and settlement agreements with Nokia.
Key Business Metrics
 
 
Cash and Marketable Securities
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $18.4 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, compared to $17.6 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2010 and $17.7 billion a year ago. On October 13, 2010, we announced a cash dividend of $0.19 per share payable on December 22, 2010 to stockholders of record as of November 24, 2010.
Research and Development
 
Non-GAAP R&D expenses increased 6 percent y-o-y primarily due to an increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next-generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services. QSI R&D expenses were primarily related to our FLO TV subsidiary.
 
Selling, General and Administrative
Non-GAAP selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 21 percent y-o-y primarily due to an increase in legal and patent-related costs. QSI SG&A expenses were primarily related to FLO TV.
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2010 effective income tax rates were 20 percent for both GAAP and Non-GAAP. The fiscal 2010 GAAP effective tax rate included tax expense of $137 million because deferred revenue related to the 2008 license and settlement agreements with Nokia was taxable in fiscal 2010, but the resulting deferred tax asset will reverse in future years when our state tax rate, based on the legislation in effect during fiscal 2010, will be lower. The fiscal 2010 GAAP effective tax rate also included $20 million of tax expense as a result of prior year tax audits completed during the fiscal year. The tax expense related to these items was excluded from our Non-GAAP results to provide a clearer understanding of our ongoing tax rate and after tax earnings.
Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment manages our strategic investment activities, including FLO TV, and makes strategic investments in early-stage companies and in wireless spectrum, such as the Broadband Wireless Access (BWA) spectrum recently won in the auction in India. GAAP results for the fourth quarter fiscal 2010 included a $0.05 loss per share for the QSI segment.
The fourth quarter fiscal 2010 QSI results included $132 million in operating expenses primarily related to FLO TV. In June 2010, in connection with the India BWA spectrum purchase, we entered into a bank loan agreement that is payable in full in Indian rupees in December 2010. At the end of the fourth quarter fiscal 2010, the carrying value of the loan was $1.09 billion.
 
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward looking and actual results may differ materially. The "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this news release provides a description of certain risks that we face, and our annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provide a more complete description of risks.
Our outlook does not include provisions for future asset impairments or the consequences of injunctions, damages or fines related to any pending legal matters unless awarded or imposed by a court, governmental entity or other regulatory body. Further, due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment gains or losses, or gains and losses on certain derivative instruments, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, we only include such items in our business outlook to the extent they are reasonably certain; however, actual results may vary materially from the business outlook.
We have commenced a restructuring plan under which we expect to exit the current FLO TV service business. In addition to our ongoing operating costs, we expect to incur restructuring charges related to this plan in the range of $125 million to $175 million in fiscal 2011, which are primarily related to certain contractual obligations and are included in our fiscal 2011 outlook included herein. Additionally, we continue to evaluate strategic options for the FLO TV business, which include, but are not limited to, operating the FLO TV network under a new wholesale service; sale to, or joint venture with, a third party; and/or the sale of the spectrum licenses and the discontinuance of the operation of the network. Additional charges, including impairment of assets, may be incurred as we continue to evaluate or implement these strategic options or if we are unable to generate adequate future cash flows associated with this business.
The following table summarizes GAAP and Non-GAAP guidance based on the current business outlook. The Non-GAAP business outlook presented below is consistent with the presentation of Non-GAAP results elsewhere herein.
 
The following estimates are approximations and are based on the current business outlook:
FIRST FISCAL QUARTER
 
FISCAL YEAR
CALENDAR YEAR Device Estimates (1)
 
 
(in millions, except per share data):
Results of Business Segments
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
N/A  Not Applicable
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
Conference Call
Qualcomm's fourth quarter fiscal 2010 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on November 3, 2010 beginning at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (PT) on the Company's web site at: www.qualcomm.com. This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information and will include a discussion of "Non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these Non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at www.qualcomm.com immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on November 3, 2010, beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. PT through December 3, 2010 at 9:00 p.m. PT. To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 642-1687 and international callers may dial (706) 645-9291. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 17283098. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at www.qualcomm.com following the live call.
Editor's Note: To view the web slides that accompany this earnings release and conference call, please go to the Qualcomm Investor Relations website at: http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm
Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM) is a world leader in next-generation mobile technologies. For 25 years, Qualcomm ideas and inventions have driven the evolution of wireless communications, connecting people more closely to information, entertainment and
 
each other. Today, Qualcomm technologies are powering the convergence of mobile communications and consumer electronics, making wireless devices and services more personal, affordable and accessible to people everywhere. For more information, please visit
www.qualcomm.com
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents Non-GAAP financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis; (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments; and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Non-GAAP measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income (loss), net investment income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using Non-GAAP information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on Non-GAAP financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Non-GAAP information used by management excludes the QSI segment, certain share-based compensation, certain tax items and acquired in-process R&D. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Further, share-based compensation related to stock options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts
 
in future years. Certain tax items that were recorded in reported earnings in each fiscal year presented, but were unrelated to the fiscal year in which they were recorded, are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing Non-GAAP tax rate and after tax earnings. Acquired in-process R&D is excluded because such expense is viewed by management as unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term shareholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
The Non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "Non-GAAP" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of Non-GAAP results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP results and Non-GAAP results are presented herein.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of deployment and adoption of, and demand for, our technologies in wireless networks and of wireless communications, equipment and services, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA, HSPA, TD-SCDMA and OFDMA, both domestically and internationally; the uncertainty of global economic conditions and its potential impact on demand for our products, services or applications and the value of our marketable securities; competition; our dependence on major customers and licensees; attacks on our licensing business model, including results of current and future litigation and arbitration proceedings, as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies,
 
and the costs we incur in connection therewith, including potentially damaged relationships with customers and operators who may be impacted by the results of these proceedings; our dependence on third-party manufacturers and suppliers; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic investments and transactions we have or may pursue; defects or errors in our products and services; the success of the FLO TV service business and MediaFLO technology; the development and commercial success of the mirasol display technology; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our SEC reports, including the report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 26, 2010. The Company undertakes no obligation to update, or continue to provide information with respect to, any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Qualcomm is a registered trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated. FLO TV and MediaFLO are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated. mirasol is a registered trademark of Qualcomm MEMS Technologies, Inc. CDMA2000 is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA USA). All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful N/A  Not Applicable Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful N/A  Not Applicable
 
 
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
 
 
 


