FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20111102160524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 2, 2011, QUALCOMM Incorporated ("Qualcomm" or the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended September 25, 2011. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The attached press release presents certain financial information that is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); such information is referred to as "Non-GAAP." The Non-GAAP financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "Non-GAAP" is not a term defined by GAAP, and as a result, the Company's measure of Non-GAAP results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP results and Non-GAAP results are presented in the attached press release.
Non-GAAP financial information is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis; (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments; and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Non-GAAP measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income (loss), net investment income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using Non-GAAP information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on Non-GAAP financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Non-GAAP information used by management excludes the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain share-based compensation, certain tax items and certain acquisition-related items. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments and realized gains or losses are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Further, share-based compensation related to stock options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items that were recorded in reported earnings in each fiscal year presented, but were unrelated to the fiscal year in which they were recorded, are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing Non-GAAP tax rate and after tax earnings. In fiscal 2011, the Company began excluding the benefit of retroactive extensions of the federal R&D tax credit from Non-GAAP results because the Company does not include the potential extension of the credit in its business outlook due to uncertainty as to whether and when the federal R&D tax credit will be retroactively extended. In addition to its historical practice of excluding acquired in-process research and development expenses from Non-GAAP results, the Company began excluding recognition of the step-up of inventories to fair value and amortization of certain intangible assets starting with acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. These certain acquisition-related items are excluded and no longer allocated to the Company's segments because management has concluded that such expenses should not be considered when assessing segment performance as they are unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses. In addition, these charges are significantly impacted by the size and timing of acquisitions, potentially obscuring period to period comparisons of the Company's operating businesses.
The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow the Company's business and to create long-term stockholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
 
Item 9.01.  Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Qualcomm Contact:
Warren Kneeshaw
Phone: 1-858-658-4813
e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
 
SAN DIEGO  November 2, 2011  Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM), a leading developer and innovator of advanced wireless technologies, products and services, today announced results for the fourth fiscal quarter and year ended September 25, 2011.
 
"I am very pleased with our performance this year as we delivered record revenues, earnings and MSM chipset shipments, driven by the popularity of smartphones, continued adoption of 3G technologies, particularly in emerging regions, and our industry-leading patent portfolio," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chairman and CEO of Qualcomm. "The breadth and depth of our chipset roadmap, extensive licensing program and diverse set of global partnerships position us well for strong revenue and earnings growth in fiscal 2012. We are excited about the upcoming commercial launch of our groundbreaking Snapdragon multimode LTE solution and continue to invest in and execute on our strategic priorities to drive profitable growth."
GAAP Results
Qualcomm results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2011
 
 
1
The results of FLO TV are presented as discontinued operations, and prior period amounts have been adjusted accordingly. Revenues, operating expenses, operating income, earnings before tax (EBT) and effective tax rate throughout this news release are from continuing operations (i.e., before discontinued operations and the adjustment for noncontrolling interests), unless otherwise stated.
2
Net income and diluted earnings per share throughout this news release are attributable to Qualcomm (i.e., after discontinued operations and adjustment for noncontrolling interests), unless otherwise stated.
 
Fiscal 2011
Non-GAAP Results
Non-GAAP results exclude the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain share-based compensation, certain tax items that are not related to the current year and certain acquisition-related items. Starting with acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we changed our methodology for reporting Non-GAAP results to exclude the recognition of the step-up of inventories to fair value and amortization of certain intangible assets, in addition to our historical practice of excluding acquired in-process research and development (R&D) expense.
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2011
 
Fiscal 2011
Detailed reconciliations between results reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and Non-GAAP results are included at the end of this news release.
In the year-over-year comparisons summarized above, the following should be noted: fiscal 2011 results included $401 million in revenues related to prior quarters as a result of agreements entered into with two licensees to settle disputes in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 and $120 million in impairment charges related to our Firethorn division, including $114 million in goodwill impairment; and fiscal 2011 operating and free cash flow reflect the impact of a $1.5 billion income tax payment primarily related to the 2008 license and settlement agreements with Nokia. In addition, fiscal 2011 results included the results of Qualcomm Atheros, Inc., which was acquired on May 24, 2011.
 
Key Business Metrics
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2011
Fiscal 2011
Cash and Marketable Securities
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $20.9 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, compared to $20.2 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and $18.4 billion a year ago. As of September 25, 2011, $1.0 billion remained authorized for repurchases under our stock repurchase program, net of put options outstanding. In addition to the $142 million in stock repurchases we made during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we repurchased and retired 2.0 million shares of our common stock for approximately $99 million since September 25, 2011. In connection with our stock repurchase program, we sold three put options which, if exercised, will require us to repurchase an additional 11.8 million shares for $586 million. On October 11, 2011, we announced a cash dividend of $0.215 per share payable on December 21, 2011 to stockholders of record as of November 23, 2011.
 
Research and Development
 
As adjusted for discontinued operations
*
N/M - Not Meaningful
Non-GAAP R&D expenses increased 34 percent y-o-y primarily due to an increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next generation technologies and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services.
Selling, General and Administrative
 
As adjusted for discontinued operations
*
N/M - Not Meaningful
Non-GAAP selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 2 percent y-o-y primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs.
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2011 effective income tax rates for continuing operations were 20 percent for GAAP and 21 percent for Non-GAAP. The fiscal 2011 GAAP effective tax rate included a tax benefit of $44 million related to an agreement reached on a component of our fiscal 2006 through 2010 state tax returns, as well as a tax benefit of $32 million recorded in fiscal 2011 related to fiscal 2010 due to the retroactive extension of the federal research and development tax credit in fiscal 2011. These tax benefits were excluded from our Non-GAAP results.
 
Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment makes strategic investments, many of which are in early-stage companies, and holds wireless spectrum. QSI also includes the discontinued operations of our FLO TV business. GAAP results for the fourth quarter fiscal 2011 included a $0.01 loss per share for the QSI segment. The fourth quarter fiscal 2011 QSI results included $27 million dollars in interest expense, related to the India BWA spectrum won in India in June 2010 and the related bank loans. At the end of the fourth quarter fiscal 2011, the aggregate carrying value of the loans was $994 million.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward looking and actual results may differ materially. The "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this news release provides a description of certain risks that we face, and our annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provide a more complete description of risks.
Our outlook does not include provisions for future asset impairments or for pending legal matters, other than future legal amounts that are probable and estimable. Further, due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment gains or losses, or gains and losses on certain derivative instruments, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, we only include such items in our business outlook to the extent they are reasonably certain; however, actual results may vary materially from the business outlook.
The following table summarizes GAAP and Non-GAAP guidance based on the current business outlook. The Non-GAAP business outlook presented below is consistent with the presentation of Non-GAAP results included elsewhere herein.
 
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
Results of Business Segments
The following tables have been adjusted to reflect discontinued operations (Note 5) (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
N/A  Not Applicable
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
Conference Call
Qualcomm's fourth quarter fiscal 2011 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on November 2, 2011, beginning at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (PT) on the Company's web site at:
www.qualcomm.com
. This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information and will include a discussion of "Non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these Non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at
www.qualcomm.com
immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on November 2, 2011, beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. PT through December 2, 2011 at 9:00 p.m. PT. To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (855) 859-2056 and international callers may dial (404) 537-3406. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 14571452. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at
www.qualcomm.com
following the live call.
Editor's Note: To view the web slides that accompany this earnings release and conference call, please go to the Qualcomm Investor Relations website at:
http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm
Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM) is a world leader in 3G and next-generation mobile technologies. For more than 25 years, Qualcomm ideas and inventions have driven the
 
evolution of digital communications, linking people everywhere more closely to information, entertainment and each other. For more information, visit
www.qualcomm.com
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "Non-GAAP" is not a term defined by GAAP, and as a result, the Company's measure of Non-GAAP results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP results and Non-GAAP results are presented herein.
The Company presents Non-GAAP financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis; (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments; and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Non-GAAP measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income (loss), net investment income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using Non-GAAP information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on Non-GAAP financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Non-GAAP information used by management excludes the QSI segment, certain share-based compensation, certain tax items and certain acquisition-related items. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments and realized gains or losses are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus
 
program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Further, share-based compensation related to stock options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items that were recorded in reported earnings in each fiscal year presented, but were unrelated to the fiscal year in which they were recorded, are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing Non-GAAP tax rate and after tax earnings. In fiscal 2011, the Company began excluding the benefit of retroactive extensions of the federal R&D tax credit from Non-GAAP results because the Company does not include the potential extension of the credit in its business outlook due to uncertainty as to whether and when the federal R&D tax credit will be retroactively extended. In addition to its historical practice of excluding acquired in-process research and development expenses from Non-GAAP results, the Company began excluding recognition of the step-up of inventories to fair value and amortization of certain intangible assets starting with acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. These certain acquisition-related items are excluded and no longer allocated to the Company's segments because management has concluded that such expenses should not be considered when assessing segment performance as they are unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses. In addition, these charges are significantly impacted by the size and timing of acquisitions, potentially obscuring period to period comparisons of the Company's operating businesses.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term stockholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ
 
substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the commercial deployment of, and demand for, our technologies in communications products and services; the uncertainty of global economic conditions and their potential impacts on demand for our products, services or applications and on the value of our marketable securities; competition; our dependence on major customers and licensees; attacks on our licensing business model, including results of current and future litigation and arbitration proceedings, as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies, and the costs we incur in connection therewith, including potentially damaged relationships with customers and operators who may be impacted by the results of these proceedings; our dependence on third-party suppliers; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic investments and transactions we have or may pursue, including our investment in the BWA Spectrum in India which is currently subject to legal proceedings; failures, defects or errors in our products and services or in the products of our customers; the commercial success of our QMT division's IMOD display technology; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our SEC reports, including the report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 25, 2011. We undertake no obligation to update, or continue to provide information with respect to, any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Qualcomm is a registered trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated. MSM is a registered trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated. CDMA2000 is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA USA). All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
N/A  Not Applicable
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
N/A  Not Applicable
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
(a) Incremental tax benefits from stock options exercised during the period.
(b) Primarily funding for strategic debt and equity investments and QSI operating expenses.
(c) Primarily from the issuance of subsidiary shares to noncontrolling interests.
N/A - Not Applicable
 
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding
 
 
 
 
*As adjusted for discontinued operations
 
 


