FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20111006143849.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(b) (c) On October 3, 2011, the Board of Directors of QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Company") appointed Mr. Steven R. Altman to become Vice Chairman of the Company. Mr. Altman will continue as a member of the Company's executive committee and will provide direction and guidance on key initiatives across all areas of the business, as well as overall vision and strategy. Mr. Altman has been serving as President of the Company. The Board of Directors also promoted Steven M. Mollenkopf to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer. In his new role, Mr. Mollenkopf will oversee the Company's divisions, business operations and market expansion and development areas. He will also continue in his role as President of Qualcomm CDMA Technologies. Both of these changes will be effective on November 14, 2011.
The Company expects that the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors will consider the changes in responsibility as part of its compensation review process in November 2011. Biographical information concerning Mr. Altman and Mr. Mollenkopf is contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 26, 2010 under the heading "Executive Officers" and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


