FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20110720162755.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 20, 2011, QUALCOMM Incorporated ("Qualcomm" or the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended June 26, 2011. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The attached press release presents certain financial information that is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); such information is referred to as "Non-GAAP." The Non-GAAP financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "Non-GAAP" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of Non-GAAP results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP results and Non-GAAP results are presented in the attached press release.
Non-GAAP financial information is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis; (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments; and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Non-GAAP measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income (loss), net investment income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using Non-GAAP information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on Non-GAAP financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Non-GAAP information used by management, as presented in the attached press release, excludes the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain share-based compensation, certain tax items and certain acquisition-related items. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Further, share-based compensation related to stock options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items that were recorded in reported earnings in each fiscal year presented, but were unrelated to the fiscal year in which they were recorded, are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing Non-GAAP tax rate and after tax earnings. In fiscal 2011, the Company began excluding the benefit of retroactive extensions of the federal R&D tax credit from Non-GAAP results because the Company does not include the potential extension of the credit in its business outlook due to uncertainty as to whether and when the federal R&D tax credit will be retroactively extended. In addition to its historical practice of excluding acquired in-process research and development expenses from Non-GAAP results, the Company began excluding recognition of the step-up of inventories to fair value and amortization of certain intangible assets starting with acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. These certain acquisition-related items are excluded and no longer allocated to the Company's segments because management has concluded that such expenses should not be considered when assessing segment performance as they are unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses. In addition, these charges are significantly impacted by the size and timing of acquisitions, potentially obscuring period to period
comparisons of the Company's operating businesses. We believe this practice also conforms to the approach taken by many other leading technology companies.
The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow the Company's business and to create long-term stockholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Qualcomm Contact:
Warren Kneeshaw
Phone: 1-858-658-4813
e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  July 20, 2011  Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM), a leading developer and innovator of advanced wireless technologies, products and services, today announced results for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 ended June 26, 2011.
"Qualcomm delivered strong year-over-year results again this quarter as our business performed well across all key guidance metrics. In addition, we successfully completed the acquisition of Atheros, positioning us to further expand our opportunities going forward," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chairman and CEO of Qualcomm. "Looking forward, we continue to see healthy growth in CDMA-based device shipments of approximately 18 percent in calendar year 2011, and we are pleased to be raising our revenue and Non-GAAP earnings guidance for the fiscal year, driven primarily by strong global smartphone adoption and the addition of Atheros."
Third Quarter Results (GAAP)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Third Quarter Results
Non-GAAP results exclude the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain share-based compensation, certain tax items that are not related to the current year and certain acquisition-related items. Starting with acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we changed our methodology for reporting Non-GAAP results to exclude the recognition of the step-up of inventories to fair value and amortization of certain intangible assets, in addition to our historical practice of excluding acquired in-process research and development (R&D) expense. Third quarter of fiscal 2011 Non-GAAP results excluded $45 million related to the step-up of inventories to fair value and $32 million in amortization of intangible assets that resulted from the acquisition of Atheros Communications, Inc. (Atheros).
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed reconciliations between results reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and Non-GAAP results are included at the end of this news release.
In the comparisons summarized above for the third quarter of fiscal 2011, the following should be noted: results for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 included $401 million in revenues related to prior quarters as a result of agreements entered into with two licensees to settle
 
 
disputes and $120 million in impairment charges related to our Firethorn division, including $114 million in goodwill impairment.
Third Quarter Key Business Metrics
 
 
 
Cash and Marketable Securities
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $20.2 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2011, compared to $22.1 billion at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2011 and $17.6 billion a year ago. Upon the close of the Atheros acquisition on May 24, 2011, we paid $3.1 billion in cash, net of the cash acquired. On July 13, 2011, we announced a cash dividend of $0.215 per share payable on September 23, 2011 to stockholders of record as of August 26, 2011.
Research and Development
 
 As adjusted for discontinued operations
*
N/M - Not Meaningful
Non-GAAP R&D expenses increased 21 percent y-o-y primarily due to an increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next generation technologies and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services.
 
 
Selling, General and Administrative
 
 As adjusted for discontinued operations
*
Non-GAAP selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 14 percent y-o-y primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs. QSI SG&A expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 included a $62 million gain on the sale of our Australia spectrum license.
Effective Income Tax Rate
Our fiscal 2011 effective income tax rates are estimated to be 20 percent for GAAP and 21 percent for Non-GAAP. Our fiscal 2011 estimated GAAP tax rate increased from our prior estimate of 17 percent primarily as a result of the reclassification of tax benefits to discontinued operations and lower foreign earnings related to the step-up of acquired Atheros assets to fair value. The third quarter GAAP tax rate of 23 percent was a result of this increase in the estimated annual effective tax rate.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we reached agreement with the California Franchise Tax Board on a component of our fiscal 2006 through 2010 tax returns. As a result of this agreement, we expect to record a $44 million tax benefit that will be excluded from our fourth quarter fiscal 2011 Non-GAAP results. This estimated benefit, which is included in our guidance, will reduce our fiscal 2011 estimated GAAP tax rate from 20 percent to 19 percent.
Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment makes strategic investments in early-stage and other companies and in wireless spectrum, such as the Broadband Wireless Access spectrum won in the India auction. QSI also includes the discontinued operations of our FLO TV subsidiary. GAAP results for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 included $0.01 earnings per share for the QSI segment. During the third quarter of fiscal 2011, in connection with the presentation of the FLO TV business as discontinued operations and the requirement to compute the tax effect of discontinued
 
 
operations on a discrete basis, we recorded a tax benefit of $43 million for tax benefits related to losses incurred in the first and second quarter of fiscal 2011 that were previously included in the calculation of the estimated annual effective tax rate.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward looking and actual results may differ materially. The "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this news release provides a description of certain risks that we face, and our annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provide a more complete description of risks.
Our outlook does not include provisions for future asset impairments or for pending legal matters, other than future legal amounts that are probable and estimable. Further, due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment gains or losses, or gains and losses on certain derivative instruments, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, we only include such items in our business outlook to the extent they are reasonably certain; however, actual results may vary materially from the business outlook.
The following table summarizes GAAP and Non-GAAP guidance based on the current business outlook. The Non-GAAP business outlook presented below is consistent with the presentation of Non-GAAP results included elsewhere herein.
 
 
FOURTH FISCAL QUARTER
 
 
FISCAL YEAR
 
 
CALENDAR YEAR Device Estimates (2)
 
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
Results of Business Segments
The following tables have been adjusted to reflect discontinued operations (Note 5) (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
N/A  Not Applicable
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
Conference Call
Qualcomm's third quarter fiscal 2011 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on July 20, 2011, beginning at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (PT) on the Company's web site at: . This conference call may contain forward-looking financial information and will include a discussion of "Non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these Non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Company's Investor Relations web site at immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on July 20, 2011, beginning at approximately 5:00 p.m. PT through August 20, 2011 at 9:00 p.m. PT. To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (800) 642-1687 and international callers may dial (706) 645-9291. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 78821001. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Company's web site at following the live call.
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
Editor's Note: To view the web slides that accompany this earnings release and conference call, please go to the Qualcomm Investor Relations website at:
http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm
Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM) is a world leader in 3G and next-generation mobile technologies. For more than 25 years, Qualcomm ideas and inventions have driven the evolution of wireless communications, connecting people more closely to information, entertainment and each other. Today, Qualcomm technologies are powering the convergence of mobile communications and consumer electronics, making wireless devices and services more personal, affordable and accessible to people everywhere. For more information, please visit
www.qualcomm.com
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "Non-GAAP" is not a term defined by GAAP, and, as a result, the Company's measure of Non-GAAP results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other
 
 
companies. Reconciliations between GAAP results and Non-GAAP results are presented herein.
The Company presents Non-GAAP financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis; (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments; and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Non-GAAP measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income (loss), net investment income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using Non-GAAP information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on Non-GAAP financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Non-GAAP information used by management excludes the QSI segment, certain share-based compensation, certain tax items and certain acquisition-related items. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Further, share-based compensation related to stock options is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items that were recorded in reported earnings in each fiscal year presented, but were unrelated to the fiscal year in which they were recorded, are excluded in
 
 
order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing Non-GAAP tax rate and after tax earnings. In fiscal 2011, the Company began excluding the benefit of retroactive extensions of the federal R&D tax credit from Non-GAAP results because the Company does not include the potential extension of the credit in its business outlook due to uncertainty as to whether and when the federal R&D tax credit will be retroactively extended. In addition to its historical practice of excluding acquired in-process research and development expenses from Non-GAAP results, the Company began excluding recognition of the step-up of inventories to fair value and amortization of certain intangible assets starting with acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. These certain acquisition-related items are excluded and no longer allocated to the Company's segments because management has concluded that such expenses should not be considered when assessing segment performance as they are unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses. In addition, these charges are significantly impacted by the size and timing of acquisitions, potentially obscuring period to period comparisons of the Company's operating businesses. We believe this practice also conforms to the approach taken by many other leading technology companies.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term stockholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks associated with: the rate of deployment and adoption of, and demand for, our technologies in communications, products and services; the uncertainty of global economic conditions and its potential impact on demand for our products, services or applications and the value of our marketable securities; competition; our dependence on major customers and
 
 
licensees; attacks on our licensing business model, including results of current and future litigation and arbitration proceedings, as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies, and the costs we incur in connection therewith, including potentially damaged relationships with customers and operators who may be impacted by the results of these proceedings; our dependence on third-party manufacturers and suppliers; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic investments and transactions we have or may pursue; defects or errors in our products and services; the development and commercial success of our QMT division's mirasol display technology; as well as the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our SEC reports, including the report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 26, 2010 and the most recent Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to update, or continue to provide information with respect to, any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Qualcomm is a registered trademark of Qualcomm Incorporated. Mobile Station Modem, MSM, and FLO TV are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated. mirasol is a registered trademark of Qualcomm MEMS Technologies, Inc. CDMA2000 is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA USA). All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
N/A  Not Applicable
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
N/A  Not Applicable
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


