FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20120309114105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Company") held its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on March 6, 2012 (the "Annual Meeting"). At the Annual Meeting, the Company's stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation that eliminated the plurality voting provision for the election of directors. Accordingly, also on March 6, 2012, the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Restated Certificate of Incorporation eliminating the plurality voting provision (the "Amendment") with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, and the Amendment was effective as of that date. The plurality voting provision had provided that the candidates receiving the highest number of votes of the shares entitled to be voted for them up to the number of directors to be elected by such shares shall be elected. This description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1.
 
At the Annual Meeting, the Company's stockholders considered four proposals, each of which is described in more detail in the Company's definitive proxy statement dated January 19, 2012. The final voting results are set forth below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
QUALCOMM Incorporated, a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), does hereby certify:
FIRST: On December 5, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Corporation duly adopted resolutions approving the following amendment to the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), declaring said amendment to be advisable and providing for the consideration of such amendment at the Corporation's annual meeting of stockholders.
SECOND: On March 6, 2012, the Corporation's annual meeting of stockholders was duly called and held, upon notice in accordance with Section 222 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at which meeting the necessary number of shares required by statute were voted in favor of the amendment.
THIRD: Said amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
FOURTH: The first paragraph of Section A of Article VI of the Certificate of Incorporation is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
"A. The management of the business and the conduct of the affairs of the corporation shall be vested in its Board of Directors. The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be fixed exclusively by one or more resolutions adopted from time to time by the Board of Directors."
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, QUALCOMM Incorporated has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be signed by the undersigned, thereunto duly appointed, this 6th day of March, 2012.
 


