FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20120201160458.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 1, 2012, QUALCOMM Incorporated ("Qualcomm" or the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's financial results for its first quarter of fiscal 2012 ended December 25, 2011. A copy of that press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The attached press release presents certain financial information that is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); such information is referred to as "Non-GAAP." The Non-GAAP financial information presented in the attached press release should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "Non-GAAP" is not a term defined by GAAP, and as a result, the Company's measure of Non-GAAP results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP results and Non-GAAP results are presented in the attached press release.
Non-GAAP financial information is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis; (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments; and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Non-GAAP measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, research and development (R&D) expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, total operating expenses, operating income (loss), net investment income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using Non-GAAP information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on Non-GAAP financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Non-GAAP information used by management excludes the QSI segment, certain share-based compensation, certain tax items and certain acquisition-related items. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments and realized gains or losses are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Further, share-based compensation is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items that were recorded in reported earnings in each fiscal year presented, but that were unrelated to the fiscal year in which they were recorded, are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing Non-GAAP tax rate and after tax earnings. However, the Company excludes any benefit resulting from the retroactive extensions of the federal R&D tax credit from Non-GAAP results because the Company does not include the potential extension of the credit in its business outlook due to uncertainty as to whether and when the federal R&D tax credit will be retroactively extended. In addition to its historical practice of excluding acquired in-process research and development expenses from Non-GAAP results, the Company began excluding amortization of certain intangible assets, recognition of the step-up of inventories to fair value and the related tax effects of these items starting with acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as well as any tax effects of restructuring the ownership of such acquired assets. These certain acquisition-related items are excluded and no longer allocated to the Company's segments because management has concluded that such expenses should not be considered when assessing segment performance as they are unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses. In addition, these charges are significantly impacted by the size and timing of acquisitions, potentially obscuring period to period comparisons of the Company's operating businesses.
The attached press release presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow the Company's business and to create long-term stockholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Qualcomm Contact:
Warren Kneeshaw
Phone: 1-858-658-4813
e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  February 1, 2012  Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM), a leading developer and innovator of advanced wireless technologies, products and services, today announced record results for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 ended December 25, 2011.
"I am pleased to report another record quarter with revenues, earnings and MSM shipments reaching all-time highs, driven by our industry-leading chipset portfolio and the continued strong demand for smartphones around the world," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chairman and CEO of Qualcomm. "We are raising our revenue and earnings guidance as our broad licensing partnerships and extensive chipset roadmap, led by our integrated Snapdragon processors, position us well for strong growth in fiscal 2012. We continue to invest in innovative wireless technologies, products and services, and we are excited about the opportunities ahead as 3G and 4G continue to expand across new device types and geographies."
First Quarter Results (GAAP)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP First Quarter Results
Non-GAAP results exclude the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain share-based compensation, certain acquisition-related items starting with acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and certain tax items.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed reconciliations between results reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and Non-GAAP results are included at the end of this news release.
The following should be noted with regards to the above results and year-over-year comparisons: first quarter fiscal 2012 results included the results of Qualcomm Atheros, Inc., which was acquired on May 24, 2011. Additionally, on December 27, 2011, after the close of our first fiscal quarter, we completed the sale of substantially all of our 700 MHz spectrum for $1.9 billion. As a result, we will recognize a gain in discontinued operations of $1.2 billion in the second quarter of fiscal 2012 related to the close of this transaction.
 
 
First Quarter Key Business Metrics
 
 
 
Cash and Marketable Securities
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $22.0 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2012, compared to $20.9 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 and $19.1 billion a year ago. As of December 25, 2011, $948 million remained authorized for repurchases under our stock repurchase program, net of put options outstanding. On January 10, 2012, we announced a cash dividend of $0.215 per share payable on March 23, 2012 to stockholders of record as of March 2, 2012.
Research and Development
 
 
N/M - Not Meaningful
Non-GAAP R&D expenses increased 33 percent y-o-y primarily due to an increase in investments in the development of integrated circuit products (including connectivity products), next-generation technologies and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services.
 
 
Selling, General and Administrative
 
 
N/M - Not Meaningful
Non-GAAP selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 11 percent y-o-y primarily due to increases in employee-related and marketing costs.
Effective Income Tax Rates
Our fiscal 2012 effective income tax rates are estimated to be approximately 18 percent for GAAP and approximately 18 to 19 percent for Non-GAAP. The first quarter effective income tax rates for GAAP and Non-GAAP were both 19 percent.
Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment makes strategic investments, many of which are in early-stage companies, and holds wireless spectrum. QSI also includes the discontinued operations of our FLO TV business. GAAP results for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 included a $0.01 loss per share for the QSI segment.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward looking, and actual results may differ materially. The "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in this news release provides a description of certain risks that we face, and our annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provide a more complete description of risks.
Our outlook does not include provisions for future asset impairments or for pending legal matters, other than future legal amounts that are probable and estimable. Further, due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment and certain derivative gains or losses, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, we only include such items in our business outlook to the extent they are reasonably certain; however, actual results may vary materially from the business outlook.
 
 
The following table summarizes GAAP and Non-GAAP guidance based on the current business outlook. The Non-GAAP business outlook presented below is consistent with the presentation of Non-GAAP results included elsewhere herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
Results of Business Segments
The following table has been adjusted to reflect discontinued operations (Note 4) (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
N/M  Not Meaningful
N/A  Not Applicable
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
Conference Call
Qualcomm's first quarter of fiscal 2012 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on February 1, 2012, beginning at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (PT) on the Investor Relations section of the Company's web site at: . This conference call will include a discussion of "Non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these Non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Investor Relations section of the Company's web site at immediately prior to commencement of the call. A taped audio replay will be available via telephone on February 1, 2012, beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. PT through March 1, 2012 at 9:00 p.m. PT. To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (855) 859-2056 and international callers may dial (404) 537-3406. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 41343500. An audio replay of the conference call will be available on the Investor Relations section of the Company's web site at following the live call.
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
Editor's Note: To view the web slides that supplement the conference call, please go to:
http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm
Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM) is a world leader in 3G and next-generation mobile technologies. For more than 25 years, Qualcomm ideas and inventions have driven the evolution of digital communications, linking people everywhere more closely to information, entertainment and each other. For more information, visit .
www.qualcomm.com
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "Non-GAAP" is not a term defined by GAAP, and as a result, the Company's measure of Non-GAAP results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP results and Non-GAAP results are presented herein.
 
 
The Company presents Non-GAAP financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis; (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments; and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Non-GAAP measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, total operating expenses, operating income (loss), net investment income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using Non-GAAP information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on Non-GAAP financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Non-GAAP information used by management excludes the QSI segment, certain share-based compensation, certain tax items and certain acquisition-related items. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments and realized gains or losses are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management views such share-based compensation as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Further, share-based compensation is affected by factors that are subject to change, including the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. Certain tax items that were recorded in reported earnings in each fiscal year presented, but that were unrelated to the fiscal year in which they were recorded, are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing Non-GAAP tax rate and after tax earnings. However, the Company excludes any benefit resulting from the retroactive extensions of the federal R&D tax credit from Non-GAAP results because the Company does not include the
 
 
potential extension of the credit in its business outlook due to uncertainty as to whether and when the federal R&D tax credit will be retroactively extended. In addition to its historical practice of excluding acquired in-process research and development expenses from Non-GAAP results, the Company began excluding amortization of certain intangible assets, recognition of the step-up of inventories to fair value and the related tax effects of these items starting with acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as well as any tax effects of restructuring the ownership of such acquired assets. These certain acquisition-related items are excluded and no longer allocated to the Company's segments because management has concluded that such expenses should not be considered when assessing segment performance as they are unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses. In addition, these charges are significantly impacted by the size and timing of acquisitions, potentially obscuring period to period comparisons of the Company's operating businesses.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term stockholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to statements regarding the Company's business outlook; growth expectations; and estimates and guidance related to financial performance, effective income tax rates, MSM shipments, device shipments, device sales and device average selling prices. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "guidance" and similar expressions. Actual results may differ materially from those referred to in the forward-looking statements due to a number of important factors, including but not limited to, risks associated with the commercial deployment of, and demand for, our technologies in communications products
 
 
and services; the uncertainty of global economic conditions and their potential impacts on demand for our products, services or applications and on the value of our marketable securities; competition; our dependence on a small number of customers and licensees; attacks on our licensing business model, including results of current and future litigation and arbitration proceedings, as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies, and the costs we incur in connection therewith, including potentially damaged relationships with customers and operators who may be impacted by the results of these proceedings; our dependence on third-party suppliers; the commercial success of our QMT division's IMOD display technology; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic investments and transactions we have or may pursue, including our investment in the BWA Spectrum in India, which is currently subject to legal proceedings; and failures and defects or errors in our products and services or in the products of our customers. These and other risks are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2011 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 25, 2011 filed with the SEC. Our reports filed with the SEC are available on our website at . We undertake no obligation to update, or continue to provide information with respect to, any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
www.qualcomm.com
Qualcomm, MSM and Snapdragon are registered trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated, registered in the United States and other countries. CDMA2000 is a registered trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA USA). All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
N/A  Not Applicable
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
N/ANot Applicable
 
 
 
 
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


