FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20121107160610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 7, 2012, QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended September 30, 2012. A copy of that press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release includes non-GAAP financial measures as that term is defined in Regulation G. The press release also includes the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), information reconciling the non-GAAP financial measures to the GAAP financial measures, and a discussion of the reasons why the Company's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The non-GAAP financial information presented therein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Qualcomm Contact:
Warren Kneeshaw
Phone: 1-858-658-4813
e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  November 7, 2012  Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM), a leading developer and innovator of advanced wireless technologies, products and services, today announced results for the fourth fiscal quarter and year ended September 30, 2012.
"I am very pleased with our performance this year. We delivered record revenues, earnings and MSM chipset shipments driven by increasing global consumption of wireless data across a diverse range of devices, particularly smartphones," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chairman and CEO of Qualcomm. "As we continue to invest in and execute on our strategic priorities, our broad licensing program and industry-leading Snapdragon and 3G/LTE chipset roadmap position us for double-digit revenue growth again in fiscal 2013."
GAAP Results
Qualcomm's results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal 2012*
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Results
Non-GAAP results exclude the QSI segment, certain share-based compensation, certain acquisition-related items and certain tax items.
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal 2012*
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed reconciliations between results reported in accordance with GAAP and Non-GAAP results are included within this news release.
* The following should be considered in regards to the year-over-year comparisons: Fiscal 2012 GAAP results included $776 million in earnings, net of income taxes, for discontinued operations (primarily a result of a $1.2 billion gain associated with the sale of substantially all of our 700 MHz spectrum), as compared to a $313 million loss, net of income taxes, for discontinued operations in fiscal 2011. Additionally, fiscal 2012 GAAP and Non-GAAP results included Qualcomm Atheros, Inc., which was acquired on May 24, 2011, as compared to fiscal 2011 GAAP and Non-GAAP results, which only included Qualcomm Atheros, Inc. from the date of the acquisition. Fiscal 2011 operating and free cash flows reflected the impact of a $1.5 billion income tax payment primarily related to license and settlement agreements entered into in fiscal 2008.
Key Business Metrics
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2012
 
 
 
 
Fiscal 2012
 
 
 
Cash and Marketable Securities
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $26.8 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, compared to $20.9 billion a year ago and $26.5 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2012. On October 17, 2012, we announced a cash dividend of $0.25 per share payable on December 21, 2012 to stockholders of record as of December 7, 2012. Since September 30, 2012, we repurchased and retired 4.1 million shares of common stock for $240 million.
Research and Development
 
N/M - Not Meaningful
Non-GAAP research and development (R&D) expenses increased 31 percent y-o-y primarily due to an increase in costs related to the development of CDMA-based 3G, OFDMA-based 4G LTE and other technologies for integrated circuit and related software products and to expand our intellectual property portfolio.
 
Selling, General and Administrative
 
N/M - Not Meaningful
Non-GAAP selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 47 percent y-o-y primarily due to a long-lived asset impairment charge related to our QMT division and increases in employee-related expenses, costs relating to legal matters, selling and marketing expenses and patent-related expenses.
Effective Income Tax Rates
Our fiscal 2012 effective income tax rates were 19 percent for GAAP and 20 percent for Non-GAAP. The fiscal 2012 GAAP and Non-GAAP effective tax rates only reflect the United States federal R&D credit generated through December 31, 2011, the date on which the credit expired. The fiscal 2012 GAAP effective tax rate included a tax benefit of $10 million related to the completion of the audit of our fiscal 2005 through fiscal 2008 state tax returns. This tax benefit was excluded from our Non-GAAP results.
QSI Segment
QSI makes strategic investments, many of which are in early-stage companies, and holds wireless spectrum. QSI also includes the discontinued operations of our FLO TV business. GAAP results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 included $0.01 earnings per share for QSI.
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward looking, and actual results may differ materially. The "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in this news release provides a description of certain risks that we face, and our annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provide a more complete description of risks.
 
 
Our outlook does not include provisions for future asset impairments or for pending legal matters, other than future legal amounts that are probable and estimable. Further, due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment and certain derivative gains or losses, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, we only include such items in our business outlook to the extent they are reasonably certain; however, actual results may vary materially from the business outlook.
The following table summarizes GAAP and Non-GAAP guidance based on the current business outlook. The Non-GAAP business outlook presented below is consistent with the presentation of Non-GAAP results included elsewhere herein.
 
 
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
Results of Business Segments
The following table reconciles our Non-GAAP results to our GAAP results (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
 
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
Conference Call
Qualcomm's fourth quarter and fiscal 2012 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on November 7, 2012, beginning at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (PT) at . This conference call will include a discussion of "Non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and GAAP reconciliation information, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed on the conference call, will be posted at immediately prior to commencement of the call. An audio replay will be available at and via telephone for 30 days shortly following the live call. To listen to the replay via telephone, U.S. callers may dial (855) 859-2056, and international callers may dial (404) 537-3406. Callers should use reservation number 37726774.
www.qualcomm.com/investor
www.qualcomm.com/investor
www.qualcomm.com/investor
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "Non-GAAP" is not a term defined by GAAP, and as a result, the Company's measure of Non-GAAP results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP and Non-GAAP results are presented herein.
The Company uses Non-GAAP financial information (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis; (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing core operating businesses, including the QCT, QTL and QWI segments; and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Non-GAAP measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company: revenues, cost of
 
revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, other operating expenses, operating income (loss), net investment income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. The Company is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using Non-GAAP information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on Non-GAAP financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments. The Company presents Non-GAAP financial information to provide greater transparency to investors with respect to its use of such information in financial and operational decision-making.
Non-GAAP information used by management excludes QSI, certain share-based compensation, certain acquisition-related items and certain tax items.
 
 
 
 
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term stockholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
About Qualcomm
Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM) is a world leader in 3G, 4G and next-generation wireless technologies. For more than 25 years, Qualcomm ideas and inventions have driven the evolution of digital communications, linking people everywhere more closely to information, entertainment and each other. For more information, visit .
www.qualcomm.com
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to statements regarding our broad licensing program and industry-leading Snapdragon and 3G/LTE chipset roadmap positioning us for double-digit revenue growth in fiscal 2013; the Company's business outlook; and estimates and guidance related to revenues, GAAP and Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, effective income tax rates, MSM chip shipments, total reported device sales, 3G/4G device average selling price ranges and 3G/4G device shipment ranges and midpoints. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks,"
 
"estimates," "guidance" and similar expressions. Actual results may differ materially from those referred to in the forward-looking statements due to a number of important factors, including but not limited to risks associated with the commercial deployment of our technologies and our customers' and licensees' sales of equipment, products and services based on these technologies; competition; our dependence on a small number of customers and licensees; attacks on our licensing business model, including current and future legal proceedings and actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies; our dependence on third-party suppliers, including the potential impact of supply constraints; the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights; claims by third parties that we infringe their intellectual property; global economic conditions that impact the communications industry and the potential impact on demand for our products and our customers' and licensees' products; our stock price and earnings volatility; strategic transactions and investments; the commercial success of our QMT division's display technology; foreign currency fluctuations; and failures, defects or errors in our products and services or in the products of our customers and licensees. These and other risks are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 filed with the SEC. Our reports filed with the SEC are available on our website at . We undertake no obligation to update, or continue to provide information with respect to, any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
www.qualcomm.com
Qualcomm, Snapdragon and MSM are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated, registered in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
N/A  Not Applicable
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
 
N/A  Not Applicable
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
 
 


