FILE:QCOM/QCOM-8K-20120418160319.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 18, 2012, QUALCOMM Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's financial results for its second quarter of fiscal 2012 ended March 25, 2012. A copy of that press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release includes non-GAAP financial measures as that term is defined in Regulation G. The press release also includes the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), information reconciling the non-GAAP financial measures to the GAAP financial measures, and a discussion of the reasons why the Company's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The non-GAAP financial information presented therein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Qualcomm Contact:
Warren Kneeshaw
Phone: 1-858-658-4813
e-mail:
ir@qualcomm.com
SAN DIEGO  April 18, 2012  Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM), a leading developer and innovator of advanced wireless technologies, products and services, today announced results for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 ended March 25, 2012.
"I am pleased to report another quarter of record revenues and earnings per share, driven by strong demand for 3G and 4Genabled devices across both developed and emerging regions," said Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, chairman and CEO of Qualcomm. "We are excited to see the continued growth of 3G and 4G smartphones, as well as new mobile computing devices. We are increasing our operating expenses to facilitate additional 28 nanometer supply and to continue to position our industryleading chipset solutions for the opportunities ahead."
-
-
-
Second Quarter Results (GAAP)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Second Quarter Results
Non-GAAP results exclude the Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment, certain share-based compensation, certain acquisition-related items and certain tax items.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed reconciliations between results reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and Non-GAAP results are included at the end of this news release.
Note: The following should be considered with regard to the above results and comparisons - the second quarter of fiscal 2012 GAAP results included $761 million, net of income taxes, for discontinued operations (as a result of a $1.2 billion gain associated with the sale of substantially all of our 700 MHz spectrum), as compared to a $269 million loss, net of income taxes, for discontinued operations in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Additionally, the second quarter of fiscal 2012 GAAP and Non-GAAP results included the results of Qualcomm Atheros, Inc., which was acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. The second quarter of fiscal 2011 GAAP and Non-GAAP results included $401 million in revenues relating to prior quarters as a result of agreements entered into with two licensees to settle disputes.
Second Quarter Key Business Metrics
 
 
 
Cash and Marketable Securities
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $26.6 billion at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2012, compared to $22.1 billion a year ago and $22.0 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2012. During the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we received $1.9 billion in proceeds from the sale of substantially all of our 700 MHz spectrum. On April 3, 2012, we announced a cash dividend of $0.25 per share payable on June 20, 2012 to stockholders of record as of June 1, 2012.
Research and Development
 
 
N/M - Not Meaningful
Non-GAAP research and development (R&D) expenses increased 30 percent y-o-y primarily due to an increase in investments in the development of integrated circuit products (including connectivity products), next-generation technologies and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services.
 
Selling, General and Administrative
 
 
N/M - Not Meaningful
Non-GAAP selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 13 percent y-o-y primarily due to increases in costs relating to legal matters, employee-related expenses, patent-related expenses and selling and marketing expenses, partially offset by a decrease in charitable donations. In the second quarter of fiscal 2011, we made a contribution to the Qualcomm Charitable Foundation in connection with the establishment of that entity.
Effective Income Tax Rates
Our fiscal 2012 effective income tax rates are estimated to be approximately 18 percent for GAAP and approximately 18 to 19 percent for Non-GAAP. The second quarter effective income tax rates for GAAP and Non-GAAP were both 17 percent, which are lower than the estimated annual effective tax rates, primarily due to changes in our estimates related to certain permanent differences and foreign earnings taxed at rates that are less than the United States federal tax rate.
Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives
The QSI segment makes strategic investments, many of which are in early-stage companies, and holds wireless spectrum. QSI also includes the discontinued operations of our FLO TV business. GAAP results for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 included $0.41 earnings per share for the QSI segment. QSI results for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 included a $1.2 billion gain in discontinued operations, or $0.44 earnings per share, associated with the sale of substantially all of our 700 MHz spectrum, and $81 million in other operating expenses related to a payment made to the Indian government in connection with the issuance of the BWA spectrum license.
 
Business Outlook
The following statements are forward looking, and actual results may differ materially. The "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in this news release provides a description of certain risks that we face, and our annual and quarterly reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provide a more complete description of risks.
Our outlook does not include provisions for future asset impairments or for pending legal matters, other than future legal amounts that are probable and estimable. Further, due to their nature, certain income and expense items, such as realized investment and certain derivative gains or losses, cannot be accurately forecast. Accordingly, we only include such items in our business outlook to the extent they are reasonably certain; however, actual results may vary materially from the business outlook.
The following table summarizes GAAP and Non-GAAP guidance based on the current business outlook. The Non-GAAP business outlook presented below is consistent with the presentation of Non-GAAP results included elsewhere herein.
 
 
 
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
Results of Business Segments
The following table has been adjusted to reflect discontinued operations (Note 4) (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
 
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
Conference Call
Qualcomm's second quarter of fiscal 2012 earnings conference call will be broadcast live on April 18, 2012, beginning at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (PT) on the Investor Relations section of the Company's web site at: . This conference call will include a discussion of "Non-GAAP financial measures" as that term is defined in Regulation G. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and information reconciling these Non-GAAP financial measures to the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the other material financial and statistical information to be discussed in the conference call, will be posted on the Investor Relations section of the Company's web site at immediately prior to commencement of the call. An audio replay will be available via telephone on April 18, 2012, beginning at approximately 5:30 p.m. PT through May 18, 2012 at 9:00 p.m. PT. To listen to the replay, U.S. callers may dial (855) 859-2056, and international callers may dial (404) 537-3406. U.S. and international callers should use reservation number 64261105. An audio replay of the conference call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of the Company's web site at following the live call.
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
www.qualcomm.com
Editor's Note: To view the web slides that supplement the conference call, please go to:
http://investor.qualcomm.com/results.cfm
Qualcomm Incorporated (Nasdaq: QCOM) is a world leader in 3G and next-generation mobile technologies. For more than 25 years, Qualcomm ideas and inventions have driven the evolution of digital communications, linking people everywhere more closely to information, entertainment and each other. For more information, visit .
www.qualcomm.com
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, "Non-GAAP" is not a term defined by GAAP, and as a result, the Company's measure of Non-GAAP results might be different than similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations between GAAP and Non-GAAP results are presented herein.
The Company presents Non-GAAP financial information that is used by management (i) to evaluate, assess and benchmark the Company's operating results on a consistent and comparable basis; (ii) to measure the performance and efficiency of the Company's ongoing
 
core operating businesses, including the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, Qualcomm Technology Licensing and Qualcomm Wireless & Internet segments; and (iii) to compare the performance and efficiency of these segments against each other and against competitors outside the Company. Non-GAAP measurements of the following financial data are used by the Company's management: revenues, R&D expenses, SG&A expenses, other operating expenses, operating income (loss), net investment income (loss), income (loss) before income taxes, effective tax rate, net income (loss), diluted earnings (loss) per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow. Management is able to assess what it believes is a more meaningful and comparable set of financial performance measures for the Company and its business segments by using Non-GAAP information. As a result, management compensation decisions and the review of executive compensation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors focus primarily on Non-GAAP financial measures applicable to the Company and its business segments.
Non-GAAP information used by management excludes the QSI segment, certain share-based compensation, certain acquisition-related items and certain tax items. The QSI segment is excluded because the Company expects to exit its strategic investments at various times, and the effects of fluctuations in the value of such investments and realized gains or losses are viewed by management as unrelated to the Company's operational performance. Share-based compensation, other than amounts related to share-based awards granted under a bonus program that may result in the issuance of unrestricted shares of the Company's common stock, is excluded because management has concluded that such expenses should not be considered when assessing operational performance as they are deemed to be unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses. Further, share-based compensation is affected by factors that are subject to change, which may include the Company's stock price, stock market volatility, expected award life, risk-free interest rates and expected dividend payouts in future years. In addition to its historical practice of excluding acquired in-process research and development expenses from Non-GAAP results, the Company began excluding amortization of certain intangible assets, recognition of the step-up of inventories to fair value and the related tax effects of these items starting with acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as well as any tax effects of restructuring the ownership of such acquired assets. These certain acquisition-related items are excluded and no longer allocated to the Company's segments because management has concluded that such expenses should not be considered when assessing segment performance as they are deemed to
 
be unrelated to the operating activities of the Company's ongoing core businesses. In addition, these charges are significantly impacted by the size and timing of acquisitions, potentially obscuring period to period comparisons of the Company's operating businesses. Certain tax items that were recorded in each fiscal year presented, but that were unrelated to the fiscal year in which they were recorded, are excluded in order to provide a clearer understanding of the Company's ongoing Non-GAAP tax rate and after tax earnings. However, the Company excludes any benefit resulting from the retroactive extensions of the federal R&D tax credit from Non-GAAP results because the Company does not include the potential extension of the credit in its business outlook due to uncertainty as to whether and when the federal R&D tax credit will be retroactively extended.
The Company presents free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, to facilitate an understanding of the amount of cash flow generated that is available to grow its business and to create long-term stockholder value. The Company believes that this presentation is useful in evaluating its operating performance and financial strength. In addition, management uses this measure to evaluate the Company's performance, to value the Company and to compare its operating performance with other companies in the industry.
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to the historical information contained herein, this news release contains forward-looking statements that are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to statements regarding anticipated growth for 3G and 4G smartphones and new mobile computing devices, increasing operating expenses, the Company's business outlook, and estimates and guidance related to financial performance, effective income tax rates, MSM chip shipments, device shipments, device sales and device average selling prices. Forward-looking statements are generally identified by words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "guidance" and similar expressions. Actual results may differ materially from those referred to in the forward-looking statements due to a number of important factors, including but not limited to, risks associated with the commercial deployment of, and demand for, our technologies in communications products and services; the uncertainty of global economic conditions and their potential impacts on demand for our products, services or applications and on the value of our marketable securities; competition; our dependence on a small number of customers
 
and licensees; attacks on our licensing business model, including results of current and future litigation and arbitration proceedings, as well as actions of governmental or quasi-governmental bodies, and the costs we incur in connection therewith, including potentially damaged relationships with customers and operators who may be impacted by the results of these proceedings; our dependence on third-party suppliers, including the potential impact of supply constraints; the commercial success of our QMT division's IMOD display technology; foreign currency fluctuations; strategic investments and transactions we have or may pursue, including our investment in the BWA spectrum in India; and failures and defects or errors in our products and services or in the products of our customers. These and other risks are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2011 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 25, 2012 filed with the SEC. Our reports filed with the SEC are available on our website at . We undertake no obligation to update, or continue to provide information with respect to, any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
www.qualcomm.com
Qualcomm and MSM are registered trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated, registered in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
 
N/A - Not Applicable
 
 
 
Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


