FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20040914163849.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02         Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On September 14, 2004, the Board of Directors of CVS Corporation elected Alfred J. Verrecchia to the Board. In addition, Mr. Verrecchia has been named to the Audit Committee of CVS Corporation.
 
Mr. Verrecchia has been President and Chief Executive Officer of Hasbro, Inc since May 2003. Through a toy supply agreement entered into in 2002 with KB Toys, CVS purchases an immaterial amount of Hasbro goods for sale in its stores.
 
CVS Corporation issued a press release on September 14, 2004 to announce Mr Verrecchia's election to its Board. The full text of the release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01         Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1         Press Release Dated September 14, 2004
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
WOONSOCKET, RHODE ISLAND, September 14, 2004  CVS Corporation (NYSE: CVS) today named Alfred J. Verrecchia, President and Chief Executive Officer of Hasbro, Inc., to its Board of Directors.
 
"We are thrilled to have Al join the CVS board. He is a seasoned executive with tremendous financial and operational acumen, bringing broad experience in managing the highly complex business issues companies face in today's competitive marketplace," said Tom Ryan, Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of CVS. "He has a proven track record, and his knowledge and expertise will be great assets to the CVS board."
 
Mr. Verrecchia has nearly forty years of experience in various positions at Hasbro, Inc. He has been President and Chief Executive Officer since May 2003, and previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer from 2000 to May 2003 and Executive Vice President, Global Operations and Chief Financial Officer from 1999 to 2000. Hasbro is a worldwide leader in children's and family leisure time entertainment products and services, including the design, manufacture and marketing of games and toys ranging from traditional to high-tech.
 
Mr. Verrecchia serves on several corporate boards of directors, including Hasbro, Inc., FM Global, Old Stone Corporation and Lifespan, where he is Chairman of the Board. At CVS, he will serve as a member of the board's Audit Committee.
 
CVS is America's #1 retail pharmacy, operating over 5,000 retail and specialty pharmacy stores in 36 states and the District of Columbia. With more than 40 years of dynamic growth in the retail pharmacy industry, CVS is committed to being the easiest pharmacy retailer for customers to use. CVS has created innovative approaches to serve the healthcare needs of all customers through its CVS/pharmacy stores; its online pharmacy, CVS.com; and its pharmacy benefit management and specialty pharmacy subsidiary, PharmaCareManagement Services. General information about CVS is available through the Investor Relations portion of the Company's website, at .
http://investor.CVS.com


