FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20051222211650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On December 22, 2005, CVS Corporation issued a press release announcing discussions with Albertson's, Inc., regarding a purchase of Albertson's standalone Sav-on and Osco drugstores have been terminated. Attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1, is a copy of the Corporation's related press release dated December 22, 2005.
 
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed. Accordingly, the information in Item 9.01 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Corporation under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
CVS CORPORATION
 
By:
/s/ David B. Rickard                        
        David B. Rickard
        Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
        Officer and Chief Administrative Officer
 
        Dated: December 22, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
WOONSOCKET, RI, DECEMBER 22, 2005  CVS Corporation (NYSE: CVS) announced earlier today that it had been in discussions with Albertson's, Inc. regarding a purchase of Albertsons' standalone Sav-on and Osco drugstores. Those discussions have been terminated.
 
CVS is America's largest retail pharmacy, operating more than 5,400 retail and specialty pharmacy stores in 37 states and the District of Columbia. With more than 40 years of dynamic growth in the retail pharmacy industry, CVS is committed to being the easiest pharmacy retailer for customers to use. CVS has created innovative approaches to serve the healthcare needs of all customers through its CVS/pharmacy stores; its online pharmacy, CVS.com; and its pharmacy benefit management, mail order and specialty pharmacy subsidiary, PharmaCare. General information about CVS is available through the Investor Relations portion of the Company's Web site, at http://investor.CVS.com, as well as through the pressroom portion of the Company's Web site, at http://www.cvs.com/pressroom.
 


