FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20061221121341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 19, 2006, CVS Corporation ("CVS") entered into an Amendment to the Employment Agreement with David B. Rickard, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer. Pursuant to the terms of the Amendment, which has an effective date of December 19, 2006, Mr. Rickard's Normal Retirement Date has been postponed to December 20, 2010, and in the event of his termination due to disability prior to that date, all unvested equity (options and stock) will become fully vested. Under the terms of his Employment Agreement, all unvested equity, including stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units, would otherwise have vested on December 20, 2006.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT, made and entered into as of the day of , 1999 by and between CVS Corporation, a Delaware corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the "Company"), and David B. Rickard (the "Executive").
        
                    
WHEREAS, the Company desires to employ the Executive pursuant to an agreement embodying the terms of such employment (this "Agreement") and the Executive desires to enter into this Agreement and to accept such employment, subject to the terms and provisions of this Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and mutual covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is mutually acknowledged, the Company and the Executive (individually a "Party" and together the "Parties") agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) The term of the Executive's employment under this Agreement shall commence on the date of this Agreement (the "Effective Date") and end on the third anniversary of such date (the "Original Term of Employment"), unless terminated earlier in accordance herewith. The Original Term of Employment shall be automatically renewed for successive one-year terms (the "Renewal Terms") unless at least 180 days prior to the expiration of the Original Term of Employment or any Renewal Term, either Party notifies the other Party in writing that he or it is electing to terminate this Agreement at the expiration of the then current Term of Employment. "Term of Employment" shall mean the Original Term of Employment and all Renewal Terms. If a Change in Control shall have occurred during the Term of Employment, notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2(a), the Term of Employment shall not expire earlier than two years after such Change in Control.
(b) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, at least one year prior to the expiration of the Original Term of Employment, upon the written request of the Company or the Executive, the Parties shall meet to discuss this Agreement and may agree in writing to modify any of the terms of this Agreement.
 
(a) . Executive shall serve as a senior officer of the Company. Executive shall have and perform such duties, responsibilities, and authorities as shall be specified by the Company from time to time and as are customary for a senior officer of a publicly held corporation of the size, type, and nature of the Company as they may exist from time to time and as are consistent with such position and status. Executive shall devote substantially all of his business time and attention (except for periods of vacation or absence due to illness), and his best efforts, abilities, experience, and talent to his position and the businesses of the Company.
Generally
(b) . Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the Executive from (i) serving on the boards of directors of a reasonable number of other corporations or the boards of a reasonable number of trade associations and/or charitable organizations, (ii) engaging in charitable activities and community affairs, and (iii) managing his personal investments and affairs, provided that such activities do not materially interfere with the proper performance of his duties and responsibilities under this Agreement.
Other Activities
(c) Executive's principal place of employment shall be the corporate offices of the Company.
Place of Employment.
 
The Executive shall be paid an annualized salary ("Base Salary"), payable in accordance with the regular payroll practices of the Company, of not less than $575,000, subject to review for increase at the discretion of the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board").
 
The Executive shall participate in the Company's annual incentive compensation plan with a target annual incentive award opportunity of no less than 90% of Base Salary. Payment of annual incentive awards shall be made at the same time that other senior-level executives receive their incentive awards.
 
The Executive shall be eligible to participate in the Company's long-term incentive compensation programs (including stock options and stock grants).
 
(a) During the Term of Employment, the Executive shall be entitled to participate in such employee pension and welfare benefit plans and programs of the Company as are made available to the Company's senior-level executives or to its employees generally, as such plans or programs may be in effect from time to time, including, without limitation, health, medical, dental, long-term disability, travel accident and life insurance plans.
General Benefits.
(b) . The Company shall implement deferral arrangements, reasonably acceptable to Executive and the Company, permitting Executive to elect to defer receipt, pursuant to written deferral election terms and forms (the "Deferral Election Forms"), of all or a specified portion of (i) his annual Base Salary and annual incentive compensation under Sections 4 and 5, (ii) long term incentive compensation under Section 6 and (iii) shares acquired upon exercise of options to purchase Company common stock that are acquired in an exercise in which Executive pays the exercise price by the surrender of previously acquired shares, to the extent of the net additional shares otherwise issuable to Executive in such exercise; , that such deferrals shall not reduce Executive's total cash compensation in any calendar year below the sum of (i) the FICA maximum taxable wage base plus (ii) the amount needed, on an after-tax basis, to enable Executive to pay the 1.45% Medicare tax imposed on his wages in excess of such FICA maximum taxable wage base.
Deferral of Compensation
provided
however,
In accordance with such duly executed Deferral Election Forms, the Company shall credit to a bookkeeping account (the "Deferred Compensation Account") maintained for Executive on the respective payment date or dates, amounts equal to the compensation subject to deferral, such credits to be denominated in cash if the compensation would have been paid in cash but for the deferral or in shares if the compensation would have been paid in shares but for the deferral. An amount of cash equal in value to all cash-denominated amounts credited to Executive's account and a number of shares of Company common stock equal to the number of shares credited to Executive's account pursuant to this Section 7(b) shall be transferred as soon as practicable following such crediting by the Company to, and shall be held and invested by, an independent trustee selected by the Company and reasonably acceptable to Executive (a "Trustee") pursuant to a "rabbi trust" established by the Company in connection with such
 
deferral arrangement and as to which the Trustee shall make investments based on Executive's investment objectives (including possible investment in publicly traded stocks and bonds, mutual funds, and insurance vehicles). Thereafter, Executive's deferral accounts will be valued by reference to the value of the assets of the "rabbi trust". The Company shall pay all costs of administration or maintenance of the deferral arrangement, without deduction or reimbursement from the assets of the "rabbi trust."
Except as otherwise provided under Section 10, in the event of Executive's termination of employment with the Company or as otherwise determined by the Committee in the event of hardship on the part of Executive, upon such date(s) or event(s) set forth in the Deferral Election Forms (including forms filed after deferral but before settlement in which Executive may elect to further defer settlement), the Company shall promptly pay to Executive cash equal to the value of the assets then credited to Executive's deferral accounts, less applicable withholding taxes, and such distribution shall be deemed to fully settle such accounts; , that the Company may instead settle such accounts by directing the Trustee to distribute Company common stock and/or other assets of the "rabbi trust." The Company and Executive agree that compensation deferred pursuant to this Section 7(b) shall be fully vested and nonforfeitable; , Executive acknowledges that his rights to the deferred compensation provided for in this Section 7(b) shall be no greater than those of a general unsecured creditor of the Company, and that such rights may not be pledged, collateralized, encumbered, hypothecated, or liable for or subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of Executive, or be assignable or transferable by Executive, otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, provided that Executive may designate one or more beneficiaries to receive any payment of such amounts in the event of his death.
provided, however
however
 
(a) During the Term of Employment, as well as during the Severance Period, the Executive shall be entitled to disability coverage as described in this Section 8(a). In the event the Executive becomes disabled, as that term is defined under the Company's Long-Term Disability Plan, the Executive shall be entitled to receive pursuant to the Company's Long-Term Disability Plan or otherwise, and in place of his Base Salary, an amount equal to 60% of his Base Salary, at the annual rate in effect on the commencement date of his eligibility for the Company's long-term disability benefits ("Commencement Date") for a period beginning on the Commencement Date and ending with the earlier to occur of (A) the Executive's attainment of age 65 or (B) the Executive's commencement of retirement benefits from the Company in accordance with Section 10(f) below. If (i) the Executive ceases to be disabled during the Term of Employment (as determined in accordance with the terms of the Long-Term Disability Plan), (ii) his position or another senior executive position is then vacant and (iii) the Company requests in writing that he resume such position, he may elect to resume such position by written notice to the Company within 15 days after the Company delivers its request. If he resumes such position, he shall thereafter be entitled to his Base Salary at the annual rate in effect on the Commencement Date and, for the year he resumes his position, a pro rata annual incentive award. If he ceases to be disabled during the Term of Employment and does not resume his position in accordance with the preceding sentence, he shall be treated as if he voluntarily terminated his employment pursuant to Section 10(d) as of the date the Executive ceases to be disabled. If the Executive is not offered his position or another senior executive position after he ceases to be disabled during the Term of Employment, he shall be treated as if his employment was terminated Without Cause pursuant to Section 10(c) as of the date the Executive ceases to be disabled ; , , that if a Change in Control shall have occurred during the period of the Executive's disability, he shall be treated as if his employment was terminated Without Cause following a Change in Control pursuant to Section 10(e) as of the date the Executive ceases to be disabled.
provided
however
 
(b) The Executive shall be entitled to a pro rata annual incentive award for the year in which the Commencement Date occurs based on 90% of Base Salary paid to him during such year prior to the Commencement Date, payable in a lump sum not later than 15 days after the Commencement Date. The Executive shall not be entitled to any annual incentive award with respect to the period following the Commencement Date. If the Executive recommences his position in accordance with Section 8(a), he shall be entitled to a pro rata annual incentive award for the year he resumes such position and shall thereafter be entitled to annual incentive awards in accordance with Section 5 hereof.
(c) During the period the Executive is receiving disability benefits pursuant to Section 8(a) above, he shall continue to be treated as an employee for purposes of all employee benefits and entitlements in which he was participating on the Commencement Date, including without limitation, the benefits and entitlements referred to in Sections 6 and 7 above, except that the Executive shall not be entitled to receive any annual salary increases or any new long-term incentive plan grants following the Commencement Date.
 
The Executive is authorized to incur reasonable expenses in carrying out his duties and responsibilities under this Agreement, and the Company shall promptly reimburse him for all business expenses incurred in connection therewith, subject to documentation in accordance with the Company's policy. During the Term of Employment, the Company shall reimburse the Executive, upon demand, for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with personal financial and tax planning up to a maximum of $15,000 per annum. The Company shall pay or reimburse the Executive for the expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by him in conjunction with preparation and negotiation of this Agreement and any related documents up to a maximum of $10,000.
 
(a) In the event the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated due to his death, his estate or his beneficiaries, as the case may be, shall be entitled to and their sole remedies under this Agreement shall be:
Termination Due to Death.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, an act or failure to act on Executive's part shall be considered "willful" if it was done or omitted to be done by him not in good faith, and shall not include any act or failure to act resulting from any incapacity of Executive.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) . In the event the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated without Cause (which termination shall be effective as of the date specified by the Company in a written notice to the Executive), other than due to death, or in the event there is a Constructive Termination Without Cause (as defined below), in either case prior to a Change in Control (as defined below) the Executive shall be entitled to and his sole remedies under this Agreement shall be:
Termination Without Cause or Constructive Termination Without Cause Prior to Change in Control
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Termination Without Cause" shall mean the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company for any reason other than Cause (as defined in Section 10(b)) or due to death.
"Constructive Termination Without Cause" shall mean a termination of the Executive's employment at his initiative as provided in this Section 10(c) following the occurrence, without the Executive's written consent, of one or more of the following events (except as a result of a prior termination):
 
 
 
 
In addition, following a Change in Control, "Constructive Termination Without Cause" shall also mean a termination of the Executive's employment at his initiative as provided in this Section 10(c) following the occurrence, without the Executive's written consent, of (i) a relocation of his principal place of employment outside a 35-mile radius of his principal place of employment as in effect immediately prior to such Change in Control or (ii) a material diminution or change, adverse to Executive, in Executive's positions, titles, offices, status, rank, nature of responsibility, or authority within the Company, as in effect immediately prior to such Change in Control, or a removal of Executive from or any failure to elect or re-elect, or as the case may be, nominate Executive to any such positions or offices.
A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if:
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this definition:
 
 
 
 
(d) . In the event of a termination of employment by the Executive on his own initiative after delivery of 10 business days advance written notice, other than a termination due to death, a Constructive Termination Without Cause, or Approved Early Retirement or Normal Retirement pursuant to Section 10(f) below, the Executive shall have the same entitlements as provided in Section 10(b)(iii) above for a termination for Cause, provided that at the Company's election, furnished in writing to the Executive within 15 days following such notice of termination, the Company shall in addition pay the Executive 50% of his Base Salary for a period of 18 months following such termination in exchange for the Executive not engaging in competition with the Company or any Subsidiary as set forth in Section 12(a) below. Notwithstanding any implication to the contrary, the Executive shall not have the right to terminate his employment with the Company during the Term of Employment except in the event of a Constructive Termination Without Cause, Approved Early Retirement, or Normal Retirement, and any voluntary termination of employment during the Term of Employment in violation of this Agreement shall be considered a material breach.
Voluntary Termination
(e) . In the event the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company without Cause (which termination shall be effective as of the date specified by the Company in a written notice to the Executive), other than due to death, or in the event there is a Constructive Termination Without Cause (as defined above), in either case within two years following a Change in Control (as defined above), the Executive shall be entitled to and his sole remedies under this Agreement shall be:
Termination Without Cause; Constructive Termination Without Cause or Voluntary Termination Following Change in Control
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of any termination pursuant to this Section 10(e), the term "Severance Period" shall mean the period of 36 months following the termination of the Executive's employment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Approved Early Retirement" shall mean the Executive's voluntary termination of employment with the Company at or after attaining age 55 but prior to attaining age 60, if such termination is approved in advance by the Committee.
"Normal Retirement" shall mean the Executive's voluntary termination of employment with the Company at or after attaining age 60.
 
(g) In the event of any termination of employment, the Executive shall be under no obligation to seek other employment; amounts due the Executive under this Agreement shall not be offset by any remuneration attributable to any subsequent employment that he may obtain.
No Mitigation; No Offset.
(h) . Any amounts due under this Section 10 are in the nature of severance payments considered to be reasonable by the Company and are not in the nature of a penalty.
Nature of Payments
(i) Upon termination of the Executive's employment during the Term of Employment, he shall not be entitled to any severance payments or severance benefits from the Company or any payments by the Company on account of any claim by him of wrongful termination, including claims under any federal, state or local human and civil rights or labor laws, other than the payments and benefits provided in this Section 10.
Exclusivity of Severance Payments.
(j) The Executive agrees, as a condition to receipt of the termination payments and benefits provided for in this Section 10, that he will execute a release agreement, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Company, releasing any and all claims arising out of the Executive's employment (other than enforcement of this Agreement, the Executive's rights under any of the Company's incentive compensation and employee benefit plans and programs to which he is entitled under this Agreement, and any claim for any tort for personal injury not arising out of or related to his termination of employment).
Release of Employment Claims.
 
(a) During the Term of Employment and thereafter, the Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, disclose to anyone (except in good faith in the ordinary course of business to a person who will be advised by the Executive to keep such information confidential) or make use of any Confidential Information except in the performance of his duties hereunder or when required to do so by legal process, by any governmental agency having supervisory authority over the business of the Company or by any administrative or legislative body (including a committee thereof) that requires him to divulge, disclose or make accessible such information. In the event that the Executive is so ordered, he shall give prompt written notice to the Company in order to allow the Company the opportunity to object to or otherwise resist such order.
(b) During the Term of Employment and thereafter, Executive shall not disclose the existence or contents of this Agreement beyond what is disclosed in the proxy statement or documents filed with the government unless and to the extent such disclosure is required by law, by a governmental agency, or in a document required by law to be filed with a governmental agency or in connection with enforcement of his rights under this Agreement. In the event that disclosure is so required, the Executive shall give prompt written notice to the Company in order to allow the Company the opportunity to object to or otherwise resist such requirement. This restriction shall not apply to such disclosure by him to members of his immediate family, his tax, legal or financial advisors, any lender, or tax authorities, or to potential future employers to the extent necessary, each of whom shall be advised not to disclose such information.
 
(c) "Confidential Information" shall mean all information concerning the business of the Company or any Subsidiary relating to any of their products, product development, trade secrets, customers, suppliers, finances, and business plans and strategies. Excluded from the definition of Confidential Information is information (i) that is or becomes part of the public domain, other than through the breach of this Agreement by the Executive or (ii) regarding the Company's business or industry properly acquired by the Executive in the course of his career as an executive in the Company's industry and independent of the Executive's employment by the Company. For this purpose, information known or available generally within the trade or industry of the Company or any Subsidiary shall be deemed to be known or available to the public.
(d) "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation controlled directly or indirectly by the Company.
(e) The Executive agrees to cooperate with the Company, during the Term of Employment and thereafter (including following the Executive's termination of employment for any reason), by making himself reasonably available to testify on behalf of the Company or any Subsidiary in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, and to assist the Company, or any Subsidiary, in any such action, suit, or proceeding, by providing information and meeting and consulting with the Board or its representatives or counsel, or representatives or counsel to the Company, or any Subsidiary as reasonably requested; , , that the same does not materially interfere with his then current professional activities. The Company agrees to reimburse the Executive, on an after-tax basis, for all expenses actually incurred in connection with his provision of testimony or assistance.
provided
however
(f) The Executive agrees that, during the Term of Employment and thereafter (including following the Executive's termination of employment for any reason) he will not make statements or representations, or otherwise communicate, directly or indirectly, in writing, orally, or otherwise, or take any action which may, directly or indirectly, disparage the Company or any Subsidiary or their respective officers, directors, employees, advisors, businesses or reputations. The Company agrees that, during the Term of Employment and thereafter (including following the Executive's termination of employment for any reason), the Company will not make statements or representations, or otherwise communicate, directly or indirectly, in writing, orally, or otherwise, or take any action which may, directly or indirectly, disparage the Executive or his business or reputation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Agreement shall preclude either the Executive or the Company from making truthful statements or disclosures that are required by applicable law, regulation or legal process.
12. .
Non-competition
(a) During the Restriction Period (as defined in Section 12(b) below), the Executive shall not engage in Competition with the Company or any Subsidiary. "Competition" shall mean engaging in any activity, except as provided below, for a Competitor of the Company or any Subsidiary, whether as an employee, consultant, principal, agent, officer, director, partner, shareholder (except as a less than one percent shareholder of a publicly traded company) or otherwise. A "Competitor" shall mean any corporation or other entity engaged in the retail drug pharmacy chain store business, any corporation or other entity whose principal business is mail order pharmacy benefits management, or any corporation or other entity in a joint venture relationship (directly or indirectly) with the Company, including without limitation Eckerd Corporation, Revco D.S. Inc., Rite Aid Corporation and Walgreen Company or their successors. If the Executive commences employment or becomes a consultant, principal, agent, officer, director, partner, or shareholder of any entity that is not a Competitor at the time the Executive initially becomes employed or becomes a consultant,
 
principal, agent, officer, director, partner, or shareholder of the entity, future activities of such entity shall not result in a violation of this provision unless (x) such activities were contemplated by the Executive at the time the Executive initially became employed or becomes a consultant, principal, agent, officer, director, partner, or shareholder of the entity or (y) the Executive commences directly or indirectly overseeing or managing the activities of an entity which becomes a Competitor during the Restriction Period, which activities are competitive with the activities of the Company or Subsidiary. The Executive shall not be deemed indirectly overseeing or managing the activities of such Competitor which are competitive with the activities of the Company or Subsidiary so long as he does not regularly participate in discussions with regard to the conduct of the competing business.
(b) For the purposes of this Section 12, "Restriction Period" shall mean the period beginning with the Effective Date and ending with:
 
 
 
 
 
 
13. .
Non-solicitation
During the period beginning with the Effective Date and ending 18 months following the termination of the Executive's employment, the Executive shall not induce employees of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate their employment, nor shall the Executive solicit or encourage any of the Company's or any Subsidiary's non-retail customers, or any corporation or other entity in a joint venture relationship (directly or indirectly) with the Company or any Subsidiary, to terminate or diminish their relationship with the Company or
 
any Subsidiary or to violate any agreement with any of them. During such period, the Executive shall not hire, either directly or through any employee, agent or representative, any employee of the Company or any Subsidiary or any person who was employed by the Company or any Subsidiary within 180 days of such hiring.
14. .
Remedies
If the Executive breaches any of the provisions contained in Sections 11, 12 or 13 above, the Company (a) subject to Section 15, shall have the right to immediately terminate all payments and benefits due under this Agreement and (b) shall have the right to seek injunctive relief. The Executive acknowledges that such a breach of Sections 11,12 or 13 would cause irreparable injury and that money damages would not provide an adequate remedy for the Company; provided, however, the foregoing shall not prevent the Executive from contesting the issuance of any such injunction on the ground that no violation or threatened violation of Section 11, 12 or 13 has occurred.
15. .
Resolution of Disputes
Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any breach or asserted breach hereof or questioning the validity and binding effect hereof arising under or in connection with this Agreement, other than seeking injunctive relief under Section 14, shall be resolved by binding arbitration, to be held at an office closest to the Company's principal offices in accordance with the rules and procedures of the American Arbitration Association. Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. Pending the resolution of any arbitration or court proceeding, the Company shall continue payment of all amounts and benefits due the Executive under this Agreement. All costs and expenses of any arbitration or court proceeding (including fees and disbursements of counsel) shall be borne by the respective party incurring such costs and expenses, but the Company shall reimburse the Executive for such reasonable costs and expenses in the event he substantially prevails in such arbitration or court proceeding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, following a Change in Control all reasonable costs and expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel) incurred by the Executive pursuant to this Section 15 shall be paid on behalf of or reimbursed to the Executive promptly by the Company; , that no reimbursement shall be made of such expenses if and to the extent the arbitrator(s) determine(s) that any of the Executive's litigation assertions or defenses were in bad faith or frivolous.
provided, however
16. .
Indemnification
(a) . The Company agrees that if the Executive is made a party, or is threatened to be made a party, to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a "Proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company or any Subsidiary or is or was serving at the request of the Company or any Subsidiary as a director, officer, member, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether or not the basis of such Proceeding is the Executive's alleged action in an official capacity while serving as a director, officer, member, employee or agent, the Executive shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company to the fullest extent legally permitted or authorized by the Company's certificate of incorporation or bylaws or resolutions of the Company's Board or, if greater, by the laws of the State of Delaware against all cost, expense, liability and loss (including, without limitation, attorney's fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by the Executive in connection therewith,
Company Indemnity
 
and such indemnification shall continue as to the Executive even if he has ceased to be a director, member, officer, employee or agent of the Company or other entity and shall inure to the benefit of the Executive's heirs, executors and administrators. The Company shall advance to the Executive all reasonable costs and expenses to be incurred by him in connection with a Proceeding within 20 days after receipt by the Company of a written request for such advance. Such request shall include an undertaking by the Executive to repay the amount of such advance if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified against such costs and expenses. The provisions of this Section 16(a) shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which the Executive may be entitled or which may be granted to him, and it shall be in addition to any rights of indemnification to which he may be entitled under any policy of insurance.
(b) . Neither the failure of the Company (including its Board, independent legal counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of any proceeding concerning payment of amounts claimed by the Executive under Section 16(a) above that indemnification of the Executive is proper because he has met the applicable standard of conduct, nor a determination by the Company (including its Board, independent legal counsel or stockholders) that the Executive has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that the Executive has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
No Presumption Regarding Standard of Conduct
(c) . The Company agrees to continue and maintain a directors and officers' liability insurance policy covering the Executive to the extent the Company provides such coverage for its other executive officers.
Liability Insurance
17. .
Excise Tax Gross-Up
If the Executive becomes entitled to one or more payments (with a "payment" including, without limitation, the vesting of an option or other non-cash benefit or property), whether pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or any other plan, arrangement, or agreement with the Company or any affiliated company (the "Total Payments"), which are or become subject to the tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") (or any similar tax that may hereafter be imposed) (the "Excise Tax"), the Company shall pay to the Executive at the time specified below an additional amount (the "Gross-up Payment") (which shall include, without limitation, reimbursement for any penalties and interest that may accrue in respect of such Excise Tax) such that the net amount retained by the Executive, after reduction for any Excise Tax (including any penalties or interest thereon) on the Total Payments and any federal, state and local income or employment tax and Excise Tax on the Gross-up Payment provided for by this Section 17, but before reduction for any federal, state, or local income or employment tax on the Total Payments, shall be equal to the sum of (a) the Total Payments, and (b) an amount equal to the product of any deductions disallowed for federal, state, or local income tax purposes because of the inclusion of the Gross-up Payment in the Executive's adjusted gross income multiplied by the highest applicable marginal rate of federal, state, or local income taxation, respectively, for the calendar year in which the Gross-up Payment is to be made. For purposes of determining whether any of the Total Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax and the amount of such Excise Tax:
 
 
 
 
For purposes of determining the amount of the Gross-up Payment, the Executive shall be deemed (A) to pay federal income taxes at the highest marginal rate of federal income taxation for the calendar year in which the Gross-up Payment is to be made; (B) to pay any applicable state and local income taxes at the highest marginal rate of taxation for the calendar year in which the Gross-up Payment is to be made, net of the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes if paid in such year (determined without regard to limitations on deductions based upon the amount of the Executive's adjusted gross income); and (C) to have otherwise allowable deductions for federal, state, and local income tax purposes at least equal to those disallowed because of the inclusion of the Gross-up Payment in the Executive's adjusted gross income. In the event that the Excise Tax is subsequently determined to be less than the amount taken into account hereunder at the time the Gross-up Payment is made, the Executive shall repay to the Company at the time that the amount of such reduction in Excise Tax is finally determined (but, if previously paid to the taxing authorities, not prior to the time the amount of such reduction is refunded to the Executive or otherwise realized as a benefit by the Executive) the portion of the Gross-up Payment that would not have been paid if such Excise Tax had been applied in initially calculating the Gross-up Payment, plus interest on the amount of such repayment at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code. In the event that the Excise Tax is determined to exceed the amount taken into account hereunder at the time the Gross-up Payment is made (including by reason of any payment the existence or amount of which cannot be determined at the time of the Gross-up Payment), the Company shall make an additional Gross-up Payment in respect of such excess (plus any interest and penalties payable with respect to such excess) at the time that the amount of such excess is finally determined.
The Gross-up Payment provided for above shall be paid on the 30th day (or such earlier date as the Excise Tax becomes due and payable to the taxing authorities) after it has been determined that the Total Payments (or any portion thereof) are subject to the Excise Tax; , that if the amount of such Gross-up Payment or portion thereof cannot be finally determined on or before such day, the Company shall pay to the Executive on such day an estimate, as determined by the Independent Advisors, of the minimum amount of such payments and shall pay the remainder of such payments (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code), as soon as the amount thereof can be determined. In the event that the amount of the estimated payments exceeds
provided, however
 
the amount subsequently determined to have been due, such excess shall constitute a loan by the Company to the Executive, payable on the fifth day after demand by the Company (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code). If more than one Gross-up Payment is made, the amount of each Gross-up Payment shall be computed so as not to duplicate any prior Gross-up Payment. The Company shall have the right to control all proceedings with the Internal Revenue Service that may arise in connection with the determination and assessment of any Excise Tax and, at its sole option, the Company may pursue or forego any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings, and conferences with any taxing authority in respect of such Excise Tax (including any interest or penalties thereon); , that the Company's control over any such proceedings shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-up Payment would be payable hereunder, and the Executive shall be entitled to settle or contest any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority. The Executive shall cooperate with the Company in any proceedings relating to the determination and assessment of any Excise Tax and shall not take any position or action that would materially increase the amount of any Gross-Up Payment hereunder.
provided, however
18. .
Effect of Agreement on Other Benefits
Except as specifically provided in this Agreement, the existence of this Agreement shall not be interpreted to preclude, prohibit or restrict the Executive's participation in any other employee benefit or other plans or programs in which he currently participates.
19. .
Assignability; Binding Nature
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors, heirs (in the case of the Executive) and permitted assigns. No rights or obligations of the Company under this Agreement may be assigned or transferred by the Company except that such rights or obligations may be assigned or transferred in connection with the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, provided that the assignee or transferee is the successor to all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and such assignee or transferee assumes the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company, as contained in this Agreement, either contractually or as a matter of law. The Company further agrees that, in the event of a sale or transfer of assets as described in the preceding sentence, it shall take whatever action it legally can in order to cause such assignee or transferee to expressly assume the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company hereunder. No rights or obligations of the Executive under this Agreement may be assigned or transferred by the Executive other than his rights to compensation and benefits, which may be transferred only by will or operation of law, except as provided in Section 25 below.
20. .
Representation
The Company represents and warrants that it is fully authorized and empowered to enter into this Agreement and that the performance of its obligations under this Agreement will not violate any agreement between it and any other person, firm or organization.
21. .
Entire Agreement
This Agreement contains the entire understanding and agreement between the Parties concerning the subject matter hereof and, as of the Effective Date, supersedes all prior agreements, understandings, discussions, negotiations and undertakings, whether written or
 
oral, between the Parties with respect thereto, including, without limitation, the Income Continuation Policy for Select Senior Executives of CVS Corporation.
22. .
Amendment or Waiver
No provision in this Agreement may be amended unless such amendment is agreed to in writing and signed by the Executive and an authorized officer of the Company. Except as set forth herein, no delay or omission to exercise any right, power or remedy accruing to any Party shall impair any such right, power or remedy or shall be construed to be a waiver of or an acquiescence to any breach hereof. No waiver by either Party of any breach by the other Party of any condition or provision contained in this Agreement to be performed by such other Party shall be deemed a waiver of a similar or dissimilar condition or provision at the same or any prior or subsequent time. Any waiver must be in writing and signed by the Executive or an authorized officer of the Company, as the case may be.
23. .
Severability
In the event that any provision or portion of this Agreement shall be determined to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall be unaffected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent permitted by law.
24. .
Survivorship
The respective rights and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall survive any termination of the Executive's employment to the extent necessary to the intended preservation of such rights and obligations.
25. .
Beneficiaries/References
The Executive shall be entitled, to the extent permitted under any applicable law, to select and change a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any compensation or benefit payable hereunder following the Executive's death by giving the Company written notice thereof. In the event of the Executive's death or a judicial determination of his incompetence, reference in this Agreement to the Executive shall be deemed, where appropriate, to refer to his beneficiary, estate or other legal representative.
26. .
Governing Law/Jurisdiction
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of Rhode Island without reference to principles of conflict of laws. Subject to Section 15, the Company and the Executive hereby consent to the jurisdiction of any or all of the following courts for purposes of resolving any dispute under this Agreement: (i) the United States District Court for Rhode Island or (ii) any of the courts of the State of Rhode Island. The Company and the Executive further agree that any service of process or notice requirements in any such proceeding shall be satisfied if the rules of such court relating thereto have been substantially satisfied. The Company and the Executive hereby waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which it or he may now or hereafter have to such jurisdiction and any defense of inconvenient forum.
 
27. .
Notices
Any notice given to a Party shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given when delivered personally or sent by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, duly addressed to the Party concerned at the address indicated below or to such changed address as such Party may subsequently give such notice of:
 
 
28. .
Headings
The headings of the sections contained in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed to control or affect the meaning or construction of any provision of this Agreement.
29.
Counterparts.
This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
Reference is made to the 1999 employment agreement by and between CVS Corporation, a Delaware corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the "Company") and David Rickard (the "Executive") (such binding employment agreement, as previously amended, being herein referred to as the "Employment Agreement"). Pursuant to Section 22 of the Employment Agreement, the Company and the Executive hereby amend the Employment Agreement as follows, effective immediately.
 
 
"
Base Salary
The Executive shall be paid an annualized salary ("Base Salary"), payable in accordance with the regular payroll practices of the Company, of not less than $575,000 subject to review for increase at the discretion of the Management, Planning and Development Committee (the "Committee") of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board")."
 
"(b) . The Executive may elect to defer receipt, pursuant to written deferral arrangements (the "Deferral Election Forms") under and subject to the terms of the CVS Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, the CVS Corporation Deferred Stock Compensation Plan or any successor or replacement plan or plans, of all or a specified portion of (i) his annual Base Salary and annual incentive compensation under Section 4 and Section 5 and (ii) long term incentive compensation under Section 6; , , that such deferrals shall not reduce Executive's total cash compensation in any calendar year below the sum of (A) the FICA maximum taxable wage base plus (B) the amount needed, on an after-tax basis, to enable Executive to pay the 1.45% Medicare tax imposed on his wages in excess of such FICA maximum taxable wage base.
Deferral of Compensation
provided
however
In accordance with such Deferral Election Forms, the Company shall credit to a bookkeeping account (the "Deferred Compensation Account") maintained for Executive on the respective payment date or dates, amounts equal to the compensation subject to deferral, such credits to be denominated in cash if
the compensation would have been paid in cash but for the deferral or in shares if the compensation would have been paid in shares but for the deferral.
Except as otherwise provided under Section 10, in the event of Executive's termination of employment with the Company or as otherwise determined by the Committee in the event of an unforeseeable emergency on the part of Executive, upon such date(s) or event(s) set forth in the Deferral Election Forms (including forms filed after deferral but before settlement in which Executive may elect to further defer settlement), the Company shall promptly pay to Executive cash equal to the value of the assets then credited to Executive's deferral accounts, less applicable withholding taxes and such distribution shall be deemed to fully settle such accounts. The Company and Executive agree that compensation deferred pursuant to this Section 7(b) shall be fully vested and nonforfeitable; , Executive acknowledges that his rights to the deferred compensation provided for in this Section 7(b) shall be no greater than those of a general unsecured creditor of the Company, and that such rights may not be pledged, collateralized, encumbered, hypothecated, or liable for or subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of Executive, or be assignable or transferable by Executive, otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, provided that Executive may designate one or more beneficiaries to receive any payment of such amounts in the event of his death."
however
 
"(c) . If the Executive continues to be employed by the Company until the date on which he attains age 64, the amount of $350,000 shall be credited, without any election or additional action by the Executive, to an unfunded bookkeeping account subject to rules (including notional investment and related account adjustment provisions) similar to those applicable to the CVS Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan or any successor or replacement plan but payable (unless further deferred in accordance with the terms of such Plan) in accordance with this Section 7(c). The adjusted balance of such account, determined under the terms thereof and reduced by applicable withholdings, shall be paid to the Executive within 15 days (or by such later date as is required to comply with Section 22) following Executive's (a) Normal Retirement; (b) Approved Early Retirement; (c) death; (d) Termination Without Cause; or (e) Constructive Termination Without Cause."
Additional Payment Upon Attainment of Normal Retirement Age
 
"The Executive shall be entitled to a pro rata annual incentive award for the year in which the Commencement Date occurs based on the most recently established target annual incentive bonus amount, payable in a cash lump sum not later than 15 days after the Commencement Date."
 
"(d) In the event that the Executive ceases before his 64th birthday to be employed by the Company by reason of disability, as that term is defined under the Company's Long Term Disability Plan, Executive shall be entitled to full acceleration and immediate vesting of any unvested equity awards, including stock options outstanding at the time of his termination of employment."
 
"(ii) pro rata annual incentive award for the year in which Executive's death occurs based on the most recently established target annual incentive bonus amount for Executive, which shall be payable in a cash lump sum promptly (but in no event later than 15 days or by such later date as is required to comply with Section 22) after his death."
 
"(iii) pro rata annual incentive award for the year in which Executive's termination occurs based on the most recently established target annual incentive bonus amount for Executive, payable in a cash lump sum promptly (but in no event later than 15 days or by such later date as is required to comply with Section 22) following termination."
 
"(iv) an amount equal to the most recently established target annual incentive bonus amount for Executive multiplied by two, payable in equal monthly payments over the Severance Period."
 
", and further provided that if the Company makes such an election, the Company's obligation to pay the Executive his monthly Base Salary and the Executive's obligation not to engage in competition with the Company or any Subsidiary shall terminate upon the occurrence of a Change in Control."
 
"(iii) pro rata annual incentive award for the year in which Executive's termination occurs based on the most recently established target annual incentive bonus amount for Executive, payable in a cash lump sum promptly (but in no event later than 15 days or by such later date as is required to comply with Section 22) following the Executive's termination of employment."
 
"(iv) an amount equal to the target annual incentive award based on the most recently established target annual incentive award for Executive multiplied by three, payable in a cash lump sum promptly (but in no event later than 15 days) following the Executive's termination of employment;"
 
continued vesting of all outstanding stock options and the right to exercise such stock options (including, for the avoidance of doubt, after the Executive's death by any person to whom the award passes by will or the laws of descent and distribution following the Executive's death) for a period of one year following the later of the date the options are fully vested or the Executive's termination of employment or for the remainder of the exercise period, if less (other than awards under the Company's Partnership Equity Program, which shall be governed by the terms of such awards); provided, however, that options granted pursuant to the Company's 1987 Stock Option Plan shall in no event be exercisable after three years following termination of employment;
 
""Approved Early Retirement" shall mean the Executive's voluntary termination of employment with the Company at or after attaining age 55 but prior to attaining age 64, if such termination is approved in advance by the Committee."
 
""Normal Retirement" shall mean the Executive's voluntary termination of employment with the Company at or after attaining age 64."
 
"(k) For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of this Agreement, insofar as they pertain to any stock option awarded to Executive, apply and shall be deemed to govern notwithstanding any contrary term in any agreement awarding such stock option to Executive."
 
"A "Competitor" shall mean any corporation or other entity (and its parents, subsidiaries and affiliates) doing business in a geographical area in which the
 
Company is doing or has imminent plans to do business, and which is engaged in the operation of (a) a retail business which includes or has imminent plans to include a pharmacy (, the sale of prescription drugs) as an offering or component of its business, including, without limitation, chain drug store companies such as Walgreen Co. or Rite Aid Corporation, mass merchants such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or Target Corp., and food/drug combinations such as The Kroger Co. or Supervalu Inc.; and/or (b) a business which includes or has imminent plans to include mail order prescription, specialty pharmacy and/or pharmacy benefits management as an offering or component of its business; and/or (c) a business which includes or has imminent plans to include offering, marketing or the sale of basic acute health care services at retail or other business locations, similar to the services provided by MinuteClinic, Inc. (and excluding hospitals, private physicians' offices, or other businesses dedicated to the direct provision of health care services); and/or (d) any other business in which the Company is or has imminent plans to be engaged (whether directly or indirectly, including through any joint venture) at the time of Executive's termination."
i.e.
 
The parties agree that the purpose of this provision is to protect the Company's confidential information, trade secrets and/or business relationships, and that it shall only be enforceable for such purpose.
 
" The Executive agrees, as a condition to receipt of the termination payments and benefits provided for in this Section 10, that he will execute a release agreement, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Company, releasing any and all claims arising out of the Executive's employment (other than enforcement of this Agreement, the Executive's rights under any of the Company's incentive compensation and employee benefit plans and programs to which he is entitled under this Agreement, any rights to indemnification to which Executive may be entitled or which may have been granted to him, any rights of indemnification to which the Executive may be entitled under any policy of insurance, and any claim for any tort for personal injury not arising out of or related to his termination of employment)."
Release of Employment Claims.
 
"During the period beginning with the Effective Date and ending at the end of the Restriction Period, as defined in Section 12(b), the Executive shall not induce employees of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate their employment, nor shall the Executive solicit or encourage any of the Company's or any Subsidiary's non-retail customers, or any corporation or other entity in a joint venture relationship (directly or indirectly) with the Company or any Subsidiary, to
 
terminate or diminish their relationship with the Company or any Subsidiary or to violate any agreement with any of them."
 
"The Executive and Company agree that it is the intent of the parties that this Agreement not violate any applicable provision of, or result in any additional tax or penalty under, Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and that to the extent any provisions of this Agreement do not comply with such Section 409A the parties will make such changes as are mutually agreed upon in order to comply with Section 409A."
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CVS Corporation has caused this instrument of amendment to be executed by its duly authorized officer, and the Executive has hereunto put his hand, this ____ day of ____, 2006.
 
 
 


