FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20060321163128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On March 17, 2006, the Board of Directors of CVS Corporation elected David W. Dorman to the Board.
Mr. Dorman is the retired Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of AT&T Corporation ("AT&T Corp."). He held several senior executive positions with AT&T from 2000 until his retirement in January 2006. Mr. Dorman is a director of Yum! Brands, Inc..
CVS Corporation issued a press release on March 21, 2006 to announce Mr. Dorman's election to its Board. The full text of the release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1        Press Release Dated March 21, 2006
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
WOONSOCKET, RHODE ISLAND, March 21, 2006  CVS Corporation (NYSE: CVS) announced today that it has named David W. Dorman, the former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of AT&T Corporation ("AT&T Corp."), to its Board of Directors.
"We are very pleased that David has joined the CVS Board. David led AT&T during a dynamic time in that company's history, and his knowledge and experience will serve us well as CVS continues to grow and solidify its position as America's #1 pharmacy," said Tom Ryan, Chairman, President and CEO of CVS Corporation. "David's extensive background in executive management at several different companies will be an asset to the CVS Board. We look forward to working with him."
Mr. Dorman serves on the board of directors of Yum! Brands, Inc., and served as a director of Scientific Atlanta, Inc. until its acquisition by Cisco Systems, Inc. was completed in February 2006.
CVS is America's largest retail pharmacy, operating over 5,400 retail and specialty pharmacy stores in 37 states and the District of Columbia. With more than 40 years of dynamic growth in the retail pharmacy industry, CVS is committed to being the easiest pharmacy retailer for customers to use. CVS has created innovative approaches to serve the healthcare needs of all customers through its CVS/pharmacy stores; its online pharmacy, CVS.com; and its pharmacy benefit management, mail order and specialty pharmacy subsidiary, PharmaCare. General information about CVS is available through the Investor Relations portion of the Company's website, at http://investor.CVS.com, as well as through the press room portion of the Company's website, at www.cvs.com/pressroom.


