FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20060920151223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On September 20, 2006, the Board of Directors of CVS Corporation elected Richard J. Swift, to the Board. In addition, Mr. Swift has been named to the Audit Committee of CVS Corporation and has been designated an audit committee financial expert. CVS Corporation issued a press release on September 20, 2006 to announce Mr. Swift's election. The full text of the release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K.
Mr. Swift is the former Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler Ltd., having served in those positions from April 1994 until his retirement in October 2001. Mr. Swift is also the Chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Advisory Council ("FASAC"), having served on FASAC since January 2002. Mr. Swift's term expired in June 2006; however, he has agreed to continue to serve as Chairman on a month-to-month basis until his successor is appointed.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
WOONSOCKET, RHODE ISLAND, September 20, 2006  CVS Corporation (NYSE: CVS) today named Richard J. Swift, former Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Office of Foster Wheeler Ltd. ("Foster Wheeler"), to its Board of Directors. He will serve as a member of the board's Audit Committee.
"We are exceptionally pleased to have Dick join the CVS board. His extensive business and financial expertise combined with his experience as Chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Advisory Council ("FASAC") will be a tremendous asset to our Company," said Tom Ryan, Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of CVS Corporation. "We look forward to working with Dick as we continue to develop and grow our business."
Foster Wheeler is an international engineering and construction firm with operations in over 40 countries. Mr. Swift retired from Foster Wheeler in 2001. Since January 2002, Mr. Swift has served as a member of FASAC, and is currently its Chairman. His term expired in June 2006; however, he has continued to serve as Chairman on a month-to-month basis until his successor is appointed.
Mr. Swift serves on several corporate boards, including the Public Service Enterprise Group, Ingersoll-Rand Company, Ltd, Kaman Corporation, and Hubbell Incorporated. He has extensive committee experience with each of these boards, including over 20 years experience on audit committees of public companies.
CVS is America's largest retail pharmacy, operating approximately 6,200 retail and specialty pharmacy stores in 43 states and the District of Columbia. With more than 40 years of dynamic growth in the retail pharmacy industry, CVS is committed to being the easiest pharmacy retailer for customers to use. CVS innovatively serves the healthcare needs of all customers through its CVS/pharmacy stores; its online pharmacy, CVS.com; its retail-based health clinic subsidiary, MinuteClinic; and its pharmacy benefit management, mail order and specialty pharmacy subsidiary, PharmaCare. General information about CVS is available through the Investor Relations portion of the Company's website, at http://investor.cvs.com, as well as through the pressroom portion of the Company's website, at www.cvs.com/pressroom.


