FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20060717162053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On July 17, 2006 CVS Corporation announced that Paula A. Price has joined the Company as Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Under the terms of her at-will employment arrangement with the Company, Ms. Price will receive an annual base salary of $390,000. She will also be eligible to receive an annual cash incentive award and to participate in the Company's equity award programs available for senior management.
Previously, Ms. Price served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for the Institutional Trust Services division of JPMorgan Chase & Co. from 2003 to 2005 and as Managing Director and Head of Corporate Strategy & Business Development from 2002 to 2003. Prior to joining JPMorgan Chase, Ms. Price held the position of General Manager and Chief Strategist of Prudential Retirement Services from 2000 to 2001.
Ms. Price has a BS in accounting from DePaul University and an MBA from the University of Chicago. Ms. Price is a certified public accountant.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1    Press Release Dated July 17, 2006
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
July 17, 2006 - CVS Corporation (NYSE: CVS) announced today that Paula A. Price has joined the Company as Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Price will be responsible for financial reporting, accounting systems, internal controls and loss prevention, and will help ensure the effective coordination of strategic plans and budgets. Under the direction of the Chief Financial Officer, she will also be responsible for managing general accounting, planning and analysis of the company's financial results.
Woonsocket, Rhode Island,
Previously, Price was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for the Institutional Trust Services division of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Price's career experience includes senior-level finance positions at Prudential Financial, RJR Nabisco, Diageo/Grandmet, Kraft Foods and Sears. She received her MBA from the University of Chicago and her BS from DePaul University. Price is a certified public accountant.
magna cum laude
summa cum laude
"Paula has demonstrated her effectiveness in accounting, corporate finance, and strategy. Her experience across industries and functions will be an asset to CVS as we continue to grow our business and we welcome her to the CVS team," said David Rickard, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer.
CVS is America's largest retail pharmacy, operating more than 6,100 retail and specialty pharmacy stores in 44 states and the District of Columbia. With more than 40 years of dynamic growth in the retail pharmacy industry, CVS is committed to being the easiest pharmacy retailer for customers to use. CVS has created innovative approaches to serve the healthcare needs of all customers through its CVS/pharmacy stores; its online pharmacy, CVS.com; and its pharmacy benefit management, mail order and specialty pharmacy subsidiary, PharmaCare. General information about CVS is available through the Investor Relations portion of the Company's website, at http://investor.cvs.com, as well as through the pressroom portion of the Company's website, at .
www.cvs.com/pressroom


