FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20071001170506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On October 1, 2007, CVS Caremark Corporation issued a press release announcing that it is reaffirming its previously stated earnings guidance for the third quarter ended September 29, 2007 and full year ending December 29, 2007. Attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1, is a copy of the Corporation's related press release dated October 1, 2007.
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed. Accordingly, the information in this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Corporation under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
WOONSOCKET, RHODE ISLAND, October 1, 2007  CVS Caremark Corporation (NYSE: CVS) today announced that it is reaffirming its previously stated earnings guidance. The Company continues to expect to achieve GAAP diluted earnings per share of no less than $0.42 to $0.44 in the third quarter of 2007, and $1.86 to $1.91 for fiscal year 2007.
About CVS Caremark
CVS Caremark is the largest provider of prescriptions and related healthcare services in the nation. The Company fills or manages more than 1 billion prescriptions annually. Through its unmatched breadth of service offerings, CVS Caremark is transforming the delivery of healthcare services in the U.S. The Company is uniquely positioned to effectively manage costs and improve healthcare outcomes through its approximately 6,200 CVS/pharmacy stores; its pharmacy benefit management, mail order and specialty pharmacy division, Caremark Pharmacy Services; its retail-based health clinic subsidiary, MinuteClinic; and its online pharmacy, CVS.com. General information about CVS Caremark is available through the Investor Relations portion of the Company's website, at http://investor.cvs.com, as well as through the pressroom portion of the Company's website, at www.cvs.com/pressroom.


