FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20070508081025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 8, 2007, CVS/Caremark Corporation issued a press release, announcing its earnings for the first quarter ended March 31, 2007. Attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1, is a copy of the Corporation's related press release dated May 8, 2007.
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed. Accordingly, the information in Item 9.01 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Corporation under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
WOONSOCKET, RHODE ISLAND, May 8, 2007  CVS/Caremark Corporation (NYSE: CVS), today announced record sales and earnings for the first quarter ended March 31, 2007.
Net earnings increased 24.1% to $408.9 million or $0.43 per diluted share, compared with net earnings of $329.6 million or $0.39 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2006. These results reflect 10 days of the operations of Caremark, given the March 22, 2007, closing date of the merger between CVS Corporation and Caremark Rx, Inc. In the first quarter, merger and integration expenses are estimated to have had a $25.3 million negative impact on reported results (approximately one cent per diluted share). In addition, the 703.5 million shares issued in connection with the merger are estimated to have had a negative impact on reported results (approximately 2 cents per diluted share). Adjusting for these merger-related items in the quarter, which totaled 3 cents per diluted share, CVS achieved the high end of its pre-merger standalone guidance for diluted earnings per share in the first quarter.
Tom Ryan, President and Chief Executive Officer of CVS/Caremark, stated, "The first quarter was a very solid quarter for CVS. The underlying performance in our retail business was driven by healthy sales growth in the pharmacy and front end of our stores, solid expense control, and continued improvements in margin. The increasing usage of generic drugs and our successful front end strategies are both driving higher margins at CVS.
Mr. Ryan continued: "Caremark's results for the full quarter were also extremely solid. Its generic dispensing rate increased 450 basis points to a record 58.2%, driving margin improvements. Adjusting for the impact of new generics, Caremark's revenue growth would have been almost 7 percentage points higher, or approximately 13%. Both mail and retail revenues increased in the quarter, with specialty revenues climbing a very healthy 29%. Furthermore, Caremark's industry-leading EBITDA per claim increased 25.6% to $3.14. I couldn't be happier with our solid results across the board."
Net revenues for the first quarter ended March 31, 2007 increased 32.1% to $13.2 billion, up from $10.0 billion during the first quarter of 2006. As previously reported, same store sales (sales from stores open more than one year) for the quarter rose 7.5%, while pharmacy same store sales increased 7.8% and front-end same store sales increased 6.6%. Same store sales do not include the drugstores acquired on June 2, 2006, which will be included in same store sales following the one-year anniversary of the acquisition, beginning in fiscal July 2007.
 
For the first quarter, CVS/Caremark opened 21 new stores, closed 15 stores and relocated 51 others. As of March 31, 2007, CVS/Caremark operated 6,208 retail and specialty pharmacy stores and 22 specialty pharmacies in 44 states and the District of Columbia.
The Company will be holding a conference call today for the investment community at 8:30am (EDT) to discuss the quarterly results. An audio webcast of the conference call will be broadcast simultaneously through the Investor Relations portion of the CVS/Caremark website for all interested parties. To access the webcast, visit . This webcast will be archived and available on the web site for a one-month period following the conference call.
http://investor.CVS.com
CVS/Caremark is the nation's premier integrated pharmacy services provider, combining one of the nation's leading pharmaceutical services companies with the country's largest pharmacy chain. The company fills or manages more than one billion prescriptions per year, more than any other pharmacy services provider. CVS/Caremark drives value for pharmacy services customers by effectively managing pharmaceutical costs and improving healthcare outcomes through its 6,200 CVS/pharmacy stores; its pharmacy benefit management, mail order and specialty pharmacy division, Caremark Pharmacy Services; its retail-based health clinic subsidiary, MinuteClinic; and its online pharmacy, CVS.com. General information about CVS/Caremark is available through the Investor Relations portion of the Company's website, at http://investor.cvs.com, as well as through the pressroom portion of the Company's website, at www.cvs.com/pressroom.
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For these statements, the Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. The Company strongly recommends that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties outlined under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006.
 
(1) On March 22, 2007, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 1, 2006 as amended (the "Merger Agreement") Caremark Rx, Inc. ("Caremark") was merged with and into a newly formed subsidiary of CVS Corporation, with the CVS subsidiary continuing as the surviving entity. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement Caremark shareholders received 1.67 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share of the Corporation for each share of common stock of Caremark, par value $0.001 per share, issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the merger. Further, the results of operations for the thirteen weeks ended March 31, 2007 include 10 days of results of the operations of Caremark.
(2) Diluted earnings per common share is computed by dividing (i) net earnings, after accounting for the difference between the dividends on the ESOP preference stock and common stock and after making adjustments for the incentive compensation plans, by (ii) Basic shares plus the additional shares that would be issued assuming that all dilutive stock options and restricted stock awards are exercised and the ESOP preference stock is converted into common stock. The dilutive earnings adjustment was $1.1 million and $1.0 million for the thirteen weeks ended March 31, 2007 and April 1, 2006, respectively.
 
 
 
 
The following table presents certain financial and statistical information for the Company's Caremark Rx, L.L.C. subsidiary as if it had been combined with Caremark Rx, Inc ("Caremark") for the three months ended March 31, 2007, along with amounts previously reported by Caremark Rx, Inc. for the three months ended March 31, 2006. The 2007 information excludes certain costs as further described in footnote 1 below and is presented for illustrative purposes only.
The information in the table below has not been audited and excludes material expenses related to the merger of CVS Corporation and Caremark Rx, Inc. which would be required to be presented in the separate financial statements of Caremark Rx, Inc. for the period ended March 21, 2007. Accordingly, this supplemental information does not purport to conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Additionally, this supplemental information is not indicative of results of operations expected to be achieved by Caremark Rx, L.L.C. in future periods.
 
 
 
 
 
EBITDA does not represent funds available for Caremark's discretionary use and is not intended to represent or to be used as a substitute for net earnings or operating profit. The items excluded from EBITDA are significant components of Caremark's earnings and must be considered in performing a comprehensive assessment of Caremark's overall financial performance. EBITDA and the associated year-to-year trends should not be considered in isolation. Caremark's calculation of EBITDA may not be consistent with calculations of EBITDA used by other companies.


