FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20070509165715.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
On May 9, 2007, the Board of Directors of CVS/Caremark Corporation (the 
Board
) approved, and CVS/Caremark Corporation (the 
Corporation
) effected, a change in the Corporations name from CVS/Caremark Corporation to CVS Caremark Corporation. The change in the Corporations name was effected by means of a merger, pursuant to Section 253 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the 
DGCL
), of a newly formed, wholly owned subsidiary of the Corporation with and into the Corporation, with the Corporation continuing as the surviving company. In connection with such merger, Article First of the Corporations Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was amended, at the effective time of the merger, to read in its entirety as follows: FIRST: The name of the Corporation is CVS Caremark Corporation.
 
The Corporations common stock will continue to trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CVS.
 
Section 8 - Other Events
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
On May 9, 2007, the Corporation issued a press release announcing that the Board had approved a share repurchase program for up to $5.0 billion of its outstanding common stock. A copy of the press release announcing the approval of the share repurchase program is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
WOONSOCKET, RHODE ISLAND, May 9, 2007 - CVS/Caremark Corporation (NYSE: CVS) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a share repurchase program for up to $5.0 billion of its outstanding common stock. The authorization permits the Company to effect the repurchases from time to time through a combination of open market repurchases, privately negotiated transactions and/or accelerated share repurchase transactions.
 
Dave Rickard, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CVS/Caremark, stated: Were very pleased with the Boards decision today. We expect to repurchase shares as appropriate throughout the rest of this year, further optimizing our capital structure.
 
In light of the Companys anticipated share repurchases, it is expected that CVS/Caremark will have weighted average common shares of approximately 1.6 billion for the second quarter of 2007 and 1.4 billion for the full year 2007. Those assumptions are consistent with the earnings guidance the Company provided yesterday.
 
There can be no assurance as to the amount, timing or prices of repurchases. The specific timing and amount of repurchases will vary based on market conditions and other factors. The stock repurchase program may be modified, extended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time.
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements (including those relating to accelerated share repurchase transactions, the share repurchase program and the timing and occurrence of events relating to such repurchases) that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially (including factors relating to market conditions and stock prices. For these statements, the Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company strongly recommends that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties outlined under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year ended December 30, 2006, and under the caption Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements in our Quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
 
About CVS/Caremark
 
CVS/Caremark is the nations premier integrated pharmacy services provider, combining one of the nations leading pharmaceutical services companies with the countrys largest pharmacy chain. The company fills or manages more than one billion prescriptions per year, more than any other pharmacy services provider. CVS/Caremark drives value for pharmacy services customers by effectively managing pharmaceutical costs and improving healthcare outcomes through its 6,200 CVS/pharmacy stores; its pharmacy benefit management, mail order and specialty pharmacy division, Caremark Pharmacy Services; its retail-based health clinic subsidiary, MinuteClinic; and its online pharmacy, CVS.com. General information about CVS/Caremark is available through the Investor Relations portion of the Companys website, at http://investor.cvs.com, as well as through the pressroom portion of the Companys website, at www.cvs.com/pressroom.
 


