FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20070517114608.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Section
1 - Registrants Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
As previously disclosed, on May 9, 2007 the Corporations Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $5.0 billion of its outstanding common stock. The authorization permits the Corporation to effect the repurchases from time to time through a combination of open market repurchases, privately negotiated transactions and/or accelerated share repurchase transactions.
 
On May 13, 2007, the Corporation entered into an accelerated share repurchase transaction with an affiliate of Lehman Brothers, Inc. (the seller). Pursuant to the terms of the transaction, the Corporation purchases outstanding shares of common stock from the seller for $2.5 billion. The seller makes an initial delivery of shares to the Corporation shortly after execution of the transaction, and may deliver additional shares to the Corporation at or prior to maturity of the transaction. The total number of shares to be repurchased will be subject to a minimum and maximum number of shares. The agreement for the accelerated share repurchase transaction is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
With respect to the remaining $2.5 billion of the approved repurchase program, there can be no assurance as to the amount, timing or prices of repurchases. The specific timing and amount of repurchases will vary based on market conditions and other factors. The stock repurchase program may be modified, extended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time.
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Ref. Numbers:
 
Global Deal ID: 3047652
 
Dear Sir or Madam:
 
The purpose of this communication (this 
Confirmation
) is to confirm the terms and conditions of the transaction (the 
Transaction
) entered into between Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives Inc. (
Party A
) and CVS Caremark Corporation (
Party B
) on the Trade Date specified below. This Confirmation constitutes a Confirmation as referred to in the Agreement specified below. This Confirmation is sent on behalf both Party A and Lehman Brothers Inc. (
LBI
).
Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives Inc. is not a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.
This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Party A and Party B as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to an agreement in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the 
Agreement
) as if we had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule) on the Trade Date of the Transaction. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of that agreement, or the Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction.
 
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the 
Equity Definitions
) and the 2000 ISDA Definitions (the 
Swap Definitions
, and together with the Equity Definitions, the 
Definitions
), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (
ISDA
) are incorporated into this Confirmation. References herein to Transaction shall be deemed references to Swap Transaction for purposes of the Swap Definitions. In the event of any inconsistency between the Equity Definitions and the Swap Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern. In the event of any inconsistency between either set of Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will govern. The Transaction shall constitute a Share Forward Transaction for the purposes of the Equity Definitions and shall be the only Transaction under the Agreement.
 
The terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
7
 
 
8
 
 
9
 
 
10
 
 
11
 
 
12
 
 
13
 
 
14
 
THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THE CONFIRMATION HAVE BEEN ACQUIRED FOR INVESTMENT AND HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 OR ANY OTHER UNITED STATES FEDERAL OR STATE SECURITIES LAWS; SUCH SECURITIES MAY NOT BE SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF APPROPRIATE REGISTRATION UNDER SUCH SECURITIES LAWS OR EXCEPT IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM OR NOT SUBJECT TO THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF SUCH SECURITIES LAWS.
 
 
 
 
 
15
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by executing this Confirmation and returning such Confirmation, in its entirety, to us at facsimile number 646-885-9546 (United States of America), Attention: Documentation.
 
 
Execution time will be furnished upon Party B's written request.
 
 
 
16
This Confirmation Pricing Supplement is the Confirmation Pricing Supplement referred to in the Confirmation dated as of May 13, 2007 between Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives Inc. and CVS Caremark Corporation.
For all purposes under the Confirmation, the following terms of the Confirmation shall be as specified below:
 
Execution time will be furnished upon Party Bs written request.
 
 
 


