FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20080501075259.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 1, 2008, CVS Caremark Corporation issued a press release, announcing its earnings for the first quarter ended March 29, 2008. Attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1, is a copy of the Corporation's related press release dated May 1, 2008.
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed. Accordingly, the information in Item 9.01 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Corporation under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
First Quarter Year-Over-Year Highlights:
 
 
 
WOONSOCKET, RHODE ISLAND, May 1, 2008  CVS Caremark Corporation (NYSE: CVS), today announced record first quarter revenue and earnings for the quarter ended March 29, 2008.
Net revenues for the thirteen-week period ended March 29, 2008, increased $8.1 billion to $21.3 billion, up from $13.2 billion during the thirteen-week period ended March 31, 2007. Same store sales (sales from stores open more than one year) in the Company's CVS/pharmacy division for the first quarter rose 3.9% over the prior year period. Pharmacy same store sales rose 3.7% and were negatively impacted by approximately 450 basis points due to recent generic introductions, while front-end same store sales increased 4.3%. Same store sales for the first quarter benefited from an earlier Easter (March 23
rd
this year versus April 8
th
last year), which shifted more holiday sales into March. The Company estimates the Easter shift had a positive impact of approximately 115 basis points on front-end same store sales for the quarter ended March 29, 2008.
Net earnings for the first quarter ended March 29, 2008, increased 83.1% to $748.5 million or $0.51 per diluted share on a GAAP basis, compared with net earnings of $408.9 million or $0.43 per diluted share in the comparable 2007 period. Adjusted earnings per share, which excludes $0.04 in amortization of intangible assets primarily related to acquisition activity, for the first quarter were $0.55, compared with $0.46 per share in the comparable 2007 period.
Tom Ryan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of CVS Caremark, stated, "I'm very pleased with our results for the quarter. We delivered strong revenue and margin growth across our businesses that led to earnings at the high end of our expectations. I'm most excited about the substantial progress we have made on our new integrated PBM/retail model, which is resonating strongly in the marketplace."
For the quarter, CVS Caremark opened 41 new retail pharmacy stores; closed 19 retail pharmacy stores, 2 mail order pharmacies and 1 specialty mail order pharmacy. In addition, the Company relocated 53
retail pharmacy stores and 1 specialty pharmacy store. As of March 29, 2008 the Company operated 6,267 retail pharmacy stores, 56 specialty pharmacy stores, 19 specialty mail order pharmacies and 7 mail order pharmacies in 44 states and the District of Columbia.
The Company will be holding a conference call today for the investment community at 8:30 am (EDT) to discuss its quarterly results. An audio webcast of the conference call will be broadcast simultaneously through the Investor Relations portion of the CVS website for all interested parties. To access the webcast, visit . This webcast will be archived and available on the web site for a one-month period following the conference call.
http://investor.CVS.com
CVS Caremark is the largest provider of prescriptions in the nation. The Company fills or manages more than 1 billion prescriptions annually. Through its unmatched breadth of service offerings, CVS Caremark is transforming the delivery of healthcare services in the U.S. The Company is uniquely positioned to effectively manage costs and improve healthcare outcomes through its approximately 6,300 CVS/pharmacy stores; its pharmacy benefit management, mail order and specialty pharmacy division, Caremark Pharmacy Services; its retail-based health clinic subsidiary, MinuteClinic; and its online pharmacy, CVS.com. General information about CVS Caremark is available through the Investor Relations portion of the Company's website, at , as well as through the press room portion of the Company's website, at .
http://investor.CVS.com
www.cvs.com/pressroom
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For these statements, the Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company strongly recommends that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties outlined under the caption "Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" in its Annual on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007.
 
 
 
 
For internal comparisons, management finds it useful to assess year-to-year performance by adjusting diluted earnings per share for amortization, which primarily relates to acquisition activities.
The Company defines adjusted earnings per share as earnings before income tax provision plus amortization, less income tax provision and dilutive earnings adjustment, divided by the weighted average diluted common shares outstanding.
Following is a reconciliation of earnings before income tax provision to adjusted earnings per share:
 
The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less net additions to properties and equipment (additions to property and equipment plus proceeds from sale-leaseback transactions).
Following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow:
 
The Company evaluates segment performance based on net revenue, gross profit and operating profit before the effect of non-recurring charges and gains and certain intersegment activities and charges. Following is a reconciliation of the Company's business segments to the accompanying consolidated financial statements:
 
 
Retail Pharmacy Segment
The following table summarizes the Retail Pharmacy Segment's performance for the respective periods:
 
 
Pharmacy Services Segment
The following table summarizes the Pharmacy Services Segment's performance for the respective periods:
 
 
We define EBITDA as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (and excluding merger and integration related costs). We define EBITDA per adjusted claim as EBITDA divided by adjusted pharmacy claims. Adjusted pharmacy claims normalize the claims volume statistic for the difference in average days' supply for mail and retail claims. Adjusted pharmacy claims are calculated by multiplying 90-day claims (the majority of total mail claims) by 3 and adding the 30-day claims. EBITDA can be reconciled to operating profit, which we believe to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
Following is a reconciliation of operating profit to EBITDA:
Pharmacy Services Segment  Comparable Financial Information
(1)
 
 


