FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20090108172142.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 8, 2009, CVS Caremark Corporation issued a press release announcing that it will be holding a conference call regarding earnings guidance for 2009. Attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the Corporation's related press release dated January 8, 2009.
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed. Accordingly, the information in this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Corporation under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
WOONSOCKET, R.I., January 8, 2009  CVS Caremark Corporation (NYSE: CVS) announced today it will hold a conference call to discuss its 2009 earnings guidance tomorrow, Friday, January 9, 2009, at 8:30 a.m. ET.
An audio webcast of the conference call will be broadcast simultaneously through the Investor Relations portion of the CVS Caremark website for all interested parties. To access the webcast, visit cvscaremark.com/investors. This webcast will be archived and available on the website for a 30-day period following the presentation.
About CVS Caremark
CVS Caremark is the largest provider of prescriptions in the nation. The Company fills or manages more than 1 billion prescriptions annually. Through its unmatched breadth of service offerings, CVS Caremark is transforming the delivery of health care services in the U.S. The Company is uniquely positioned to effectively manage costs and improve health care outcomes through its more than 6,800 CVS/pharmacy and Longs Drugs stores; its Caremark Pharmacy Services division (pharmacy benefit management, mail order and specialty pharmacy); its retail-based health clinic subsidiary, MinuteClinic; and its online pharmacy, CVS.com. General information about CVS Caremark is available through the Investor Relations section of the Company's Web site, at cvscaremark.com/investors, as well as through the Newsroom section of the Company's Web site, at cvscaremark.com/newsroom.


