FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20091106164243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 4, 2009, David M. Denton, currently Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of CVS Caremark Corporation ("CVS Caremark"), was named CVS Caremark's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective on January 1, 2010. Mr. Denton will replace David B. Rickard, who will be retiring at the end of 2009, as previously announced by the Company. A copy of the Early Retirement Agreement between the Company and Mr. Rickard is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K. In connection with the appointment to his new position, Mr. Denton's annual salary will be increased to $550,000 and his 2010 target annual cash incentive award will be set at 115% of his salary. His annual equity target for 2010 will be set at $1,250,000, to consist of 75% stock options and 25% restricted stock units. Mr. Denton will also participate in the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP"), which has a three-year award cycle. Awards under the LTIP are payable 50% in cash and 50% in stock with a two-year no-sale-or-transfer restriction. Mr. Denton will participate in the LTIP beginning with the 2010-2012 award cycle, with a target payout of $900,000 in 2013.
Mr. Denton, age 44, has served as Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of CVS Caremark since March 5, 2008. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President, Financial Administration of CVS Caremark and CVS Pharmacy, Inc. from April 13, 2007 until March 4, 2008; Senior Vice President, Finance and Controller of PharmaCare Management Services, Inc., the Company's pharmacy benefits management subsidiary, from October 20, 2005 through April 12, 2007; and Vice President of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. from February 2002 through October 19, 2005. He has been an employee of subsidiaries of CVS Caremark since July 1999. Mr. Denton holds a B.S. in Business Administration from Kansas State University and an M.B.A. from Wake Forest University. He is a certified public accountant.
Also on November 4, 2009, Laird K. Daniels was named Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of CVS Caremark (the title presently held by Mr. Denton), also effective as of January 1, 2010. In connection with the appointment to his new position, Mr. Daniels' annual salary will be increased to $350,000, and his 2010 target annual cash incentive award will be set at 55% of his salary. His annual equity target for 2010 will be set at $450,000, to consist of 75% stock options and 25% restricted stock units, and he will be eligible for a performance-based restricted stock award at a target amount of 25% of his annual salary. In connection with his promotion Mr. Daniels has been granted a Partnership Equity Program ("PEP") award in the amount of $50,000. Pursuant to the PEP award, on January 4, 2010 (the first trading day after January 1), Mr. Daniels will have an opportunity to purchase shares of CVS Caremark stock worth $50,000; subject to his decision to purchase shares he would be granted: (i) an equivalent number of CVS Caremark matching restricted stock units that would vest on the fifth anniversary of the grant date, and (ii) options to purchase a number a shares of CVS Caremark common stock equal to ten times the number of matching restricted stock units granted, that would vest 1/3 on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date.
Mr. Daniels, age 40, has served as Vice President, Finance and Retail Controller of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since May 2009. Previously, he served as Vice President, Corporate Budgeting, Analysis & Reporting of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. from November 2006 through April 2009; and Assistant Controller, Budgeting, Forecasting & Reporting of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. from June 2003 through October 2006. He has been an employee of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since August 1997. Mr. Daniels holds a B.S. in Accounting from the University of Connecticut and an M.B.A. from the F.W. Olin Graduate School of Business at Babson College. He is a certified public accountant.
Also on November 4, 2009, Howard A. McLure, Executive Vice President of CVS Caremark and President of Caremark Pharmacy Services, informed the Company that he will retire effective November 27, 2009. CVS Caremark is conducting a search for Mr. McLure's successor that is expected to include both internal and external candidates. Thomas M. Ryan, CVS Caremark's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, will also serve as President of Caremark Pharmacy Services on an interim basis until a successor is named.
Item 9. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements
(d) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Early Retirement Agreement dated as of November 4, 2009 ("Agreement") between David Rickard ("Mr. Rickard" or "Executive") and CVS Caremark Corporation ("CVS Caremark" or the "Company") shall be effective as of the date it is signed by Executive (the "Effective Date"), so long as the Agreement is also signed by the Company's Senior Vice President, Human Resources (the "SVP of HR").
WHEREAS, Mr. Rickard has been employed by CVS Pharmacy, Inc. (CVS), a CVS Caremark subsidiary, as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer ("EVP and CFO") of CVS Caremark Corporation;
WHEREAS, Mr. Rickard and CVS Caremark are parties to an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of December 22, 2008 (the "Employment Agreement");
WHEREAS, Mr. Rickard and CVS Caremark desire to enter into an agreement setting forth the terms of Mr. Rickard's early retirement from CVS;
WHEREAS, Mr. Rickard has thoroughly reviewed this Agreement, has entered into it voluntarily, and has consulted with legal counsel of his choice before signing this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and of the promises and mutual covenants herein contained, CVS Caremark and Mr. Rickard agree as follows:
1. . CVS Caremark agrees to seek approval from the Management Planning and Development Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company for an Approved Early Retirement (as that term is defined in the Employment Agreement) effective as of the date requested by the Executive, provided that (a) such date shall be no earlier than September 15, 2009 and no later than March 31, 2010, and (b) the Executive shall work in good faith with the Company to select a date that will meet the Company's business needs. For the purposes of this Agreement, the date approved by the Committee shall hereafter be referred to as the "Retirement Date". Until the Retirement Date, Executive shall continue to perform his duties as EVP and CFO.
EARLY RETIREMENT APPROVAL
2. . Upon the Retirement Date, and subject to the requirement set forth in Section 10(j) of the Employment Agreement, Executive shall be entitled to the payments and benefits as set forth in Section 10(f) of the Employment Agreement. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to limit any other rights or benefits that Executive may be entitled to under the Employment Agreement or any benefit plan of the Company.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS
3. . On or within sixty (60) days after the Retirement Date, Executive shall sign the General Release and Covenant Not to Sue attached as . The execution of such release of claims shall satisfy Executive's obligation under Section 10(j) of the Employment Agreement.
GENERAL RELEASE OF CLAIMS
Exhibit A
4. . Effective as of the date that the Committee approves Executive's Retirement Date, Section 12(b)(v) of the Employment Agreement is amended as follows: the words "the remainder of the Term of Employment" are stricken and replaced with "the twenty-four (24) month period following the Executive's Approved Early Retirement or Normal Retirement".
RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS
5. . Mr. Rickard agrees that on or before the Retirement Date he shall return to CVS Caremark all property of CVS Caremark or any Subsidiary (as that term is defined in Section 11(d) of the Employment Agreement) in his control or possession, including but not limited to the originals and copies of any information provided to or acquired by Mr. Rickard in connection with the performance of his duties for CVS Caremark or a Subsidiary, including but not limited to all files, correspondence, communications, memoranda, e-mails, slides, records, and all other documents, no matter how produced or reproduced, all computer equipment, programs and files, and all office keys and access cards, it being hereby acknowledged that all of said items are the sole and exclusive property of CVS Caremark. This paragraph shall not require Mr. Rickard to return his or his spouse's employee discount cards.
RETURN OF PROPERTY
6. . In the event Executive receives a subpoena, deposition notice, interview request, or other process or order which requires or may reasonably be construed to require Executive to produce Confidential Information (as that term is defined in Section 11(c) of the Employment Agreement"), Executive shall promptly: (i) notify the Company of the item, document, or information sought by such subpoena, deposition notice, interview request, or other process or order; (ii) furnish the Company with a copy of said subpoena, deposition notice, interview request, or other process or order; and (iii) provide reasonable cooperation with respect to any procedure that CVS Caremark or any Subsidiary may initiate at their expense to protect Confidential Information or other interests. If CVS Caremark or any Subsidiary objects to the subpoena, deposition notice, interview request, process, or order, Executive shall cooperate to permit the Company or Subsidiary to ensure that there shall be no disclosure until the court or other applicable entity has ruled upon the objection or otherwise ordered Executive to make such disclosure, and then only in accordance with the ruling so made, unless Executive is ordered by the court or other applicable entity to do so in the interim. If no such objection is made despite a reasonable opportunity to do so, Executive shall be entitled to comply with the subpoena, deposition notice, interview request, or other process or order provided that Executive has fulfilled the above obligations.
NOTIFICATION TO COMPANY
7. . This Agreement shall be governed by and conformed in accordance with the laws of the State of Rhode Island without regard to its conflict of laws provisions. Any actions brought to enforce the terms of this Agreement shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction located in the State of Rhode Island.
GOVERNING LAW
8. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and each counterpart will be deemed an original.
COUNTERPARTS
9. . Section headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the meaning of any provision herein.
SECTION HEADINGS
 
10. . This Agreement, together with the Employment Agreement as hereby amended, and any compensation, equity or benefit plan or agreement referred to herein or in the Employment Agreement, sets forth the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to its subject matter and fully supersedes any and all prior understandings, whether written or oral, between the parties concerning the subject matter of this Agreement. Executive acknowledges that he has not relied on any representations, promises or agreements of any kind made to him in connection with his decision to accept the terms of this Agreement, except for the representations, promises and agreements herein. Any modification to this Agreement must be in writing and signed by Executive and CVS Caremark's Sr. Vice President, Human Resources or his authorized representative.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties knowingly and voluntarily executed this Early Retirement Agreement as of the dates set forth below.
 
 
 
As a condition of receiving the post-termination compensation, benefits and other consideration set forth in the Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between David Rickard ("Executive") and CVS Caremark Corporation ("CVS Caremark") dated as of December 22, 2008 (the "Employment Agreement") and the Early Retirement Agreement between Executive and CVS Caremark dated as of November 4, 2009 (the "Early Retirement Agreement"), Executive hereby agrees to the terms of this General Release and Covenant Not to Sue ("Release").
1. . Executive hereby releases and forever discharges CVS Caremark Corporation and each of its divisions, affiliates, subsidiaries and operating companies, and the respective officers, directors, employees, agents and affiliates of each of them (collectively, the "Released Parties") from any and all causes of action, lawsuits, proceedings, complaints, charges, debts, contracts, judgments, damages, and claims against the Released Parties, whether known or unknown, which Executive ever had, now has or which Executive or Executive's heirs, executors, administrators, successors or assigns may have prior to the date this Release is signed by Executive, due to any matter whatsoever relating to Executive's employment, compensation, benefits, and/or termination of Executive's employment with CVS (collectively, the "Released Claims). The Released Claims include, but are not limited to, any claim that any of the Released Parties violated the National Labor Relations Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Sections 1981 through 1988 of Title 42 of the United States Code, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Immigration Reform and Control Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Family Medical Leave Act, and/or the Occupational Safety and Health Act; any claim that any of the Released Parties violated any other federal, state or local statute, law, regulation or ordinance; any claim of unlawful discrimination of any kind; any public policy, contract, tort, or common law claim; and any claim for costs, fees, or other expenses including attorney's fees incurred in these matters. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Release does not include any rights that Executive cannot lawfully waive, and will not release any rights Executive has (a) to defense and indemnification from CVS or its insurers, (b) to any claim for any tort for personal injury not arising out of or related to his termination of employment; (c) to claims, actions, or rights arising under or to enforce the terms of the Employment Agreement or the Early Retirement Agreement; and/or (d) under any of the Company's incentive compensation and employee benefit plans and programs to which Executive is entitled pursuant to the Employment Agreement and the Early Retirement Agreement.
GENERAL RELEASE OF CLAIMS
2. . Executive agrees not to file or initiate a lawsuit in any court or initiate an arbitration proceeding asserting any of the Released Claims against any of the Released Parties. Executive further agrees that he will not permit himself to be a member of any class in any court or in any arbitration proceeding seeking relief against the Released Parties based on claims released by this Release, and that even if a court or arbitrator rules that he may not waive a claim released by this Release, he will not accept any money damages or other relief in connection with any other action or proceeding asserting any of the Released Claims against any of the Released Parties. Executive agrees to reimburse CVS for any legal fees that CVS incurs as a result of any knowing breach of this paragraph by Executive.
COVENANT NOT TO SUE
3. . Executive represents that as of the date he signs this Release, Executive has not filed or initiated, or caused to be filed or initiated, any complaint, claim, action or lawsuit of any kind against any of the Released Parties in any federal, state or local court or agency. Executive represents that he is not aware of any facts that would support a claim by him against any of the Released Parties for any violation of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
NO PENDING ACTIONS; NO FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT CLAIMS
4. . Nothing in this Release is intended to or shall interfere with Executive's right to participate in a proceeding with any appropriate federal, state or local government agency enforcing federal, state or local discrimination laws and/or cooperating with said agency in its investigation. Executive shall not, however, be entitled to receive any relief, recovery or monies in connection with any complaint or charge brought against any of the Released Parties with respect to any Released Claims, without regard as to who brought any such complaint or charge.
WAIVER OF DAMAGES
5. . Executive acknowledges that he has been afforded at least twenty-one (21) days to consider whether to sign this Release. If Executive elects not to take the twenty-one (21) days to consider this Release, Executive acknowledges having done so voluntarily and with the understanding that Executive is waiving a statutory right to do so. If Executive chooses to execute this Release, Executive has the right to revoke the acceptance at any time within seven (7) days of signing (the "Revocation Period") by delivering a written revocation to CVS Caremark Corporation, Attention: V. Michael Ferdinandi, One CVS Drive, Woonsocket, RI 02895. Any such revocation shall state, "I hereby revoke my General Release and Covenant Not to Sue" and must be signed by Executive and received by the Company before the end of the Revocation Period. If Executive decides to revoke this Release, the revocation shall make this Release null and void and shall be deemed effective on the date received by the Company. Executive acknowledges that in the absence of a valid effective Release, Executive is not entitled to the post-employment payments and benefits set forth in Section 10 of the Employment Agreement. CVS hereby advises Executive to consult with an attorney before executing this Release.
TIME TO CONSIDER AND REVOKE; ADVICE OF COUNSEL
 
 


