FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20101203141155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 3, 2010, CVS Caremark Corporation (the "Company") announced that it has hired Hank Mullany to be Executive Vice President, CVS Caremark Corporation and President, CVS/pharmacy. Mr. Mullany will begin his duties on December 6, 2010. Mr. Mullany was Executive Vice President of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Walmart") and President of Walmart North, where he was responsible for the operation of 1,300 stores across 19 states.
The Company's related press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
Walmart has filed a lawsuit alleging that Mr. Mullany's non-competition agreement prohibits him from working for the Company. The Company and Mr. Mullany believe that the allegations in the lawsuit are without merit and that Mr. Mullany's agreement with Walmart should not prevent him from working for the Company. Prior to hiring Mr. Mullany, the Company and Mr. Mullany attempted to resolve the dispute with Walmart. The Company and Mr. Mullany intend to aggressively defend the lawsuit filed by Walmart.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 CVS Caremark (NYSE: CVS) announced that it has appointed Hank Mullany as President of CVS/pharmacy effective December 6.
WOONSOCKET, R.I. (December 3, 2010)
Mullany, 52, is a seasoned retail executive with nearly thirty years of retail experience and a strong background in operations, finance and strategic planning. Previously as EVP and President of Walmart North, Mullany was responsible for the operation of 1,300 stores across 19 states. Earlier in his career, Mullany served in various senior management positions, including as President, of Genuardi's Family Markets in Pennsylvania. Mullany, a certified public accountant, earned both his bachelor's degree and MBA from Temple University.
"Hank brings a wealth of experience to his new role and understands the many demands and challenges of the retail business. His expertise, along with his demonstrated ability to execute strategies and produce outstanding results, make him the right candidate to drive continued growth in our retail business and further our industry leadership for many years to come," said Larry J. Merlo, President and COO, CVS Caremark.
"Hank is the right candidate to fill this role," CVS Caremark Chairman and CEO Tom Ryan added. "His broad base of retail experience will further our mission to provide customers with expert care and innovative solutions. Hank's proven track record as a leader will continue to set us apart in today's competitive marketplace."
Mullany succeeds Merlo who continued to hold responsibility for CVS/pharmacy retail operations while the search for a successor was ongoing. As announced as part of a corporate succession plan last May, Ryan plans to retire from his position as CEO prior to the next annual meeting at which time Merlo will succeed Ryan as CEO.
About CVS Caremark
CVS Caremark is the largest pharmacy health care provider in the United States. Through our integrated offerings across the entire spectrum of pharmacy care, we are uniquely positioned to provide greater access, to engage plan members in behaviors that improve their health and to lower overall health care costs for health plans, plan sponsors and their members. CVS Caremark is a market leader in mail order pharmacy, retail pharmacy, specialty pharmacy, and retail clinics, and is a leading provider of Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans. As one of the country's largest pharmacy benefits managers (PBMs), we provide access to a network of more than 64,000 pharmacies, including approximately 7,100 CVS/pharmacy stores that provide unparalleled service and capabilities. Our clinical expertise includes one of the industry's most comprehensive disease management programs. General information about CVS Caremark is available through the Company's Web site at .
http://info.cvscaremark.com


