FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20100504074508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 4, 2010, CVS Caremark Corporation issued a press release announcing its earnings for the three months ended March 31, 2010. Attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1, is a copy of the Corporation's related press release dated May 4, 2010.
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed. Accordingly, the information in Item 9.01 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Corporation under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
First Quarter Year-Over-Year Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
Full-year Adjusted EPS Guidance Range Revised to $2.77 - $2.84; Full-year GAAP EPS Guidance Range Revised to $2.58 - $2.65
WOONSOCKET, RHODE ISLAND, May 4, 2010 - CVS Caremark Corporation (NYSE: CVS), today announced revenues, operating profit, and net income for the three months ended March 31, 2010.
Revenues:
Net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2010 increased $366 million to $23.8 billion, up from $23.4 billion during the three months ended March 31, 2009.
Revenues in the Pharmacy Services segment increased 2.6% to $11.8 billion in the three months ended March 31, 2010. This increase was primarily associated with the conversion of a number of RxAmerica pharmacy network contracts, which resulted in those contracts being accounted for using the gross method. Adjusting the growth rate for the impact of new generics, net revenues would have grown 7.7% in the Pharmacy Services segment. Retail network claims processed during the three months ended March 31, 2010 decreased 10.3% to 132.0 million, compared to 147.1 million in the prior year period. The decrease in retail network claims was primarily due to the termination of a few large client contracts effective January 1, 2010 and the decrease of covered lives under our Medicare Part D program resulting from the 2010 Medicare Part D competitive bidding process. Mail choice claims processed during the three months ended March 31, 2010 decreased 4.8% to 15.5 million compared to 16.3 million in the prior year period. The decrease in the mail choice claim volume was related to the termination of a few large client contracts effective January 1, 2010, partially offset by new client starts effective January 1, 2010.
Revenues in the Retail Pharmacy segment increased 3.6% to $14.0 billion in the three months ended March 31, 2010. Same store sales increased 2.3% over the prior year period. Same store sales in both the pharmacy and front store were negatively impacted by a weak flu season and severe weather in certain markets. Pharmacy same store sales rose 3.7% and were negatively impacted by approximately 290 basis points due to recent generic introductions and positively impacted by approximately 260 basis points due to the continued growth of the Maintenance Choice program. Front store same store sales decreased 0.7% in the three months ended March 31, 2010. As expected, front store same store sales were negatively impacted by the inclusion of stores acquired as part of the Longs acquisition and benefited from an earlier Easter this year compared with last year.
The generic dispensing rate in our Pharmacy Services segment increased approximately 270 basis points to an industry-leading 70.4% and by approximately 290 basis points to 72.1% in our Retail Pharmacy segment for the three months ended March 31, 2010, compared to the prior year period.
Income from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark:
Income from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark for the three months ended March 31, 2010, increased $30 million to $773 million, compared with $743 million during the three months ended March 31, 2009. Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark, which excludes $105 million of intangible asset amortization related to acquisition activity, for the three months ended March 31, 2010 were $0.60, compared with $0.55 in the three months ended March 31, 2009. GAAP earnings per diluted share from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark for the three months ended March 31, 2010 were $0.55, compared with $0.51 in the three months ended March 31, 2009.
The Company's reported results for the three months ended March 31, 2010 benefited from lower litigation-related costs and fewer integration-related costs associated with the Longs acquisition.
Tom Ryan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer said, "I'm very pleased with our results in the first quarter. Our operating profit across the enterprise was in line with our expectations, despite the weaker-than-anticipated flu season and severe weather in certain markets that dampened retail revenue growth. That solid performance was driven by continued market share gains and better expense leverage. At the same time, we continued to make excellent progress on our new clinical initiatives that should further differentiate CVS Caremark in the PBM marketplace. I'm also pleased to report that we generated approximately $660 million in free cash during the quarter, and remain committed to using our strong cash generation capabilities to return value to our shareholders. We accelerated our share repurchases during the quarter, which contributed to our achieving earnings per share that were slightly ahead of our expectations."
Guidance:
In light of the solid performance reported today and continued confidence about the remainder of the year, the Company also raised the mid-point of its earnings per share guidance range for the full year 2010. The Company increased the low-end of EPS guidance by $0.03 and now expects adjusted EPS from continuing operations to be in the range of $2.77 - $2.84 and GAAP EPS from continuing operations to be in the range of $2.58 - $2.65.
Real estate program:
During the three months ended March 31, 2010, the Company opened 48 new retail drugstores, and closed ten retail drugstores and two specialty pharmacy stores. In addition, the Company relocated 53 retail drugstores. As of March 31, 2010, the Company operated 7,063 retail drugstores, 47 specialty pharmacy stores, 18 specialty mail order pharmacies and six mail order pharmacies in 44 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.
Teleconference and webcast:
The Company will be holding a conference call today for the investment community at 8:30 am (EDT) to discuss its quarterly results. An audio webcast of the conference call will be broadcast simultaneously for all interested parties through the Investor Relations section of the CVS Caremark website at http://info.cvscaremark.com. This webcast will be archived and available on the website for a one-month period following the conference call.
About the Company:
CVS Caremark is the largest pharmacy health care provider in the United States. Through our integrated offerings across the entire spectrum of pharmacy care, we are uniquely positioned to provide greater access to engage plan members in behaviors that improve their health, and to lower overall health care costs for health plans, plan sponsors and their members. CVS Caremark is a market leader in mail order pharmacy, retail pharmacy, specialty pharmacy, and retail clinics, and is a leading provider of Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans. As one of the country's largest pharmacy benefits managers (PBMs), we provide access to a network of more than 64,000 pharmacies, including over 7,000 CVS/pharmacy stores that provide unparalleled service and capabilities. Our clinical expertise includes one of the industry's most comprehensive disease management programs. General information about CVS Caremark is available through the Company's website at http://info.cvscaremark.com.
Forward-looking statements:
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For these statements, the Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company strongly recommends that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties outlined under the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
 
 
 
For internal comparisons, management finds it useful to assess year-to-year performance by adjusting diluted earnings per share for amortization, which primarily relates to acquisition activities.
The Company defines adjusted earnings per share as income before income tax provision plus amortization, less adjusted income tax provision, plus net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest divided by the weighted average diluted common shares outstanding.
The following is a reconciliation of income before income tax provision to adjusted earnings per share:
 
 
The following reconciliation of estimated income before income tax provision to estimated adjusted earnings per share contains forward-looking information that is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. The Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company strongly recommends that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties outlined under the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. For internal comparisons, management finds it useful to assess year-to-year performance by adjusting diluted earnings per share for amortization, which primarily relates to acquisition activities.
 
The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less net additions to properties and equipment (i.e., additions to property and equipment plus proceeds from sale-leaseback transactions).
The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow:
 
The Company evaluates its Pharmacy Services and Retail Pharmacy segment performance based on net revenue, gross profit and operating profit before the effect of nonrecurring charges and gains and certain intersegment activities. The Company evaluates the performance of its Corporate segment based on operating expenses before the effect of nonrecurring charges and gains and certain intersegment activities. The following is a reconciliation of the Company's segments to the accompanying consolidated financial statements:
 
 
Pharmacy Services Segment
The following table summarizes the Pharmacy Services segment's performance for the respective periods:
 
 
The Company defines EBITDA as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We define EBITDA per adjusted claim as EBITDA divided by adjusted pharmacy claims. Adjusted pharmacy claims normalize the claims volume statistic for the difference in average days' supply for mail and retail claims. Adjusted pharmacy claims are calculated by multiplying 90-day claims (the majority of total mail claims) by 3 and adding the 30-day claims. EBITDA can be reconciled to operating profit, which we believe to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The following is a reconciliation of operating profit to EBITDA for the Pharmacy Services segment:
 
 
Retail Pharmacy Segment
The following table summarizes the Retail Pharmacy segment's performance for the respective periods:
 
 


