FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20100513171935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 12, 2010, CVS Caremark Corporation (the "Company") held its 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting"). At the Annual Meeting, the Company formally announced its CEO Succession Plan. As part of the Succession Plan, (1) Thomas M. Ryan, the Company's Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer will relinquish the title of President effective immediately and will retire as CEO at the Company's annual meeting in May 2011; (2) the Company's Board of Directors increased its size to 13 directors; (3) Larry J. Merlo, until now an Executive Vice President of the Company and President of CVS/pharmacy, has been appointed the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer and was also elected to the Company's Board of Directors; (4) it is anticipated that Mr. Merlo will become the successor CEO; and (5) to facilitate the transition, the Company has formed an Office of the Chairman consisting of Mr. Ryan, Mr. Merlo and Per G.H. Lofberg, an Executive Vice President of the Company and President of Caremark Pharmacy Services.
A copy of the press release announcing the above is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Also at the Annual Meeting, the stockholders of the Company approved the Company's 2010 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "2010 Plan"). The 2010 Plan is similar in design to the Company's 1997 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended, which Plan was to expire according to its terms on April 17, 2011. A description of the material terms and conditions of the 2010 Plan appears on pages 57-62 of the Company's definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on March 29, 2010 (the "Proxy Statement"). Further, on April 26, 2010, the Company filed with the Commission additional proxy materials on Schedule 14A, reducing the number of shares to be available for issuance under the 2010 Plan upon its approval by the Company's stockholders from 78 million to 74 million shares. The description of the 2010 Plan contained herein and in the Proxy Statement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2010 Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
 
On May 12, 2010, upon receipt of stockholder approval at the Annual Meeting, the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate of Amendment") that adds a right permitting holders of record of at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the voting power of the Company's outstanding capital stock to call a special meeting of stockholders by written request filed with the Secretary of the Company and otherwise in accordance with the By-laws. The description of the Certificate of Amendment contained herein and in the Proxy Statement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Certificate of Amendment, which is filed as Exhibit 3.1 attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
Upon the filing of the Certificate of Amendment, the Board of Directors of the Company amended and restated the Company's By-laws to provide informational and procedural requirements for stockholders to call special meetings. The description of the amended By-laws contained herein and in the Proxy Statement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the By-laws, as amended and restated, which is filed as Exhibit 3.2 attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The following are the voting results on each matter submitted to the Company's stockholders at the Annual Meeting. The proposals below are described in detail in the Proxy Statement. At the Annual Meeting, the 12 nominees for director were elected to the Company's Board of Directors for a term of one year (Proposal 1 below). In addition, management proposals regarding ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2010, adoption of the 2010 Plan, and adoption of an amendment to the Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide that special meetings of stockholders of the Company may be called upon the written request of holders of record of at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the voting power of the Company's outstanding capital stock (Proposals 2-4), were approved. A stockholder proposal (Proposal 5 below) was not approved. Finally, as disclosed in additional proxy materials on Schedule 14A filed with the Commission on May 5, 2010, an additional stockholder proposal (Proposal 6 in the Proxy Statement) was withdrawn by the proponent prior to the Annual Meeting.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
A. The name of the corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation") is CVS CAREMARK CORPORATION. The date of filing of its original Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of Delaware is August 22, 1996.
B. At a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation on March 10, 2010, resolutions were duly adopted approving the following proposed amendment of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation") of the Corporation and declaring said amendment to be advisable. The proposed amendment was as follows:
Article NINTH of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth below:
NINTH: Special meetings of the stockholders may be called (i) by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation or (ii) upon written request from holders of record of at least 25% of the voting power of the outstanding capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on the matter or matters to be brought before the proposed special meeting, filed with the Secretary of the Corporation and otherwise in accordance with the By-laws, and may not be called by any other person or persons. Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever holders of one or more classes or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock shall have the right, voting separately as a class or series, to elect directors, such holders may call, to the extent provided in Article FOURTH (or pursuant to the terms of the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to ARTICLE FOURTH hereof), special meetings of holders of such Preferred Stock or Preference Stock.
C. Thereafter, pursuant to a resolution of its Board of Directors, a meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation was duly called and held, on May 12, 2010 upon notice in accordance with Section 222 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at which meeting the necessary number of shares as required by statute were voted in favor of the amendment.
D. The foregoing amendment was duly adopted in accordance with Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
E. The effective date of the amendment shall be May 12, 2010.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this certificate to be executed by David M. Denton, an authorized officer of the Corporation, this 12th day of May, 2010.
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
Section 1.01 ANNUAL MEETING. The annual meeting of the stockholders of the corporation for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as may be brought before the meeting, shall be held at the principal office of the corporation, or at such other place within or without the State of Delaware stated in the notice of the meeting as the Board of Directors may determine, on such day in the month of April or May as the Board of Directors may determine, at ten o'clock (10:00) in the forenoon, Rhode Island time, or at such other hour stated in the notice of the meeting as the Board of Directors may determine.
Section 1.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
(i) Special meetings of stockholders may be called by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
(ii) A special meeting of stockholders shall be called by the Secretary of the corporation at the written request or requests (each, a "Special Meeting Request" and, collectively, the "Special Meeting Requests") of holders of record of at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the voting power of the outstanding capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote on the matter or matters to be brought before the proposed special meeting (the "Requisite Percentage"). A Special Meeting Request to the Secretary shall be signed and dated by each stockholder of record (or a duly authorized agent of such stockholder) requesting the special meeting (each, a "Requesting Stockholder"), shall comply with Sections 2 and 10 of this Article 1, and shall include (A) a statement of the specific purpose or purposes of the special meeting, (B) the information required by Section 10(i)(c) of this Article 1, (C) an acknowledgement by the Requesting Stockholders and the beneficial owners, if any, on whose behalf the Special Meeting Request(s) are being made that a disposition of shares of the corporation's capital stock owned of record or beneficially as of the date on which the Special Meeting Request in respect of such shares is delivered to the Secretary that is made at any time prior to the special meeting shall constitute a revocation of such Special Meeting Request with respect to such disposed shares, and (D) documentary evidence that the Requesting Stockholders own the Requisite Percentage as of the date of such written request to the Secretary; , , that if the Requesting Stockholders are not the beneficial owners of the shares representing the Requisite Percentage, then to be valid, the Special Meeting Request(s) must also include documentary evidence (or, if not simultaneously provided with the Special Meeting Request(s), such documentary evidence must be delivered to the Secretary within ten (10) business days after the date on which the Special Meeting Request(s) are delivered to the Secretary) that the beneficial owners on whose behalf the Special Meeting Request(s) are made beneficially own the Requisite Percentage as of the date on which such Special Meeting Request(s) are delivered to the Secretary. In addition, the Requesting Stockholders and the beneficial owners, if any, on whose behalf the Special Meeting Request(s) are being made shall promptly provide any other information reasonably requested by the corporation.
provided
however
(iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2, a special meeting requested by stockholders shall not be held if (A) the Special Meeting Request does not comply with this
Section 2, (B) the Special Meeting Request relates to an item of business that is not a proper subject for stockholder action under applicable law, (C) the Special Meeting Request is received by the corporation during the period commencing ninety (90) days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting and ending on the date of the next annual meeting, (D) an annual or special meeting of stockholders that included an identical or substantially similar item of business ("Similar Business") was held not more than one hundred twenty (120) days before the Special Meeting Request was received by the Secretary, (E) the Board of Directors has called or calls for an annual or special meeting of stockholders to be held within ninety (90) days after the Special Meeting Request is received by the Secretary and the business to be conducted at such meeting includes the Similar Business, or (F) the Special Meeting Request was made in a manner that involved a violation of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or other applicable law. For purposes of this Section 2(iii), the nomination, election or removal of directors shall be deemed to be Similar Business with respect to all items of business involving the nomination, election or removal of directors, changing the size of the Board of Directors and filling of vacancies and/or newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors. The Board of Directors shall determine in good faith whether the requirements set forth in this Section 2(iii) have been satisfied.
(iv) In determining whether a special meeting of stockholders has been requested by the record holders of shares representing in the aggregate at least the Requisite Percentage, multiple Special Meeting Requests delivered to the Secretary will be considered together only if (A) each Special Meeting Request identifies substantially the same purpose or purposes of the special meeting and substantially the same matters proposed to be acted on at the special meeting (in each case as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors), and (B) such Special Meeting Requests have been dated and delivered to the Secretary within sixty (60) days of the earliest dated Special Meeting Request. A Requesting Stockholder may revoke a Special Meeting Request at any time by written revocation delivered to the Secretary and if, following such revocation, there are outstanding un-revoked requests from Requesting Stockholders holding less than the Requisite Percentage, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, cancel the special meeting. If none of the Requesting Stockholders appears or sends a duly authorized agent to present the business to be presented for consideration that was specified in the Special Meeting Request, the corporation need not present such business for a vote at such special meeting.
(v) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Section 3 of this Article 1. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the Board of Directors from submitting matters to the stockholders at any special meeting requested by stockholders.
(vi) Special meetings shall be held at such date and time as may be fixed by the Board of Directors in accordance with these by-laws; , , that in the case of a special meeting requested by stockholders, the date of any such special meeting shall not be more than ninety (90) days after a Special Meeting Request that satisfies the requirements of this Section 2 is received by the Secretary. Special meetings shall be held at such place within or without the State of Delaware as is specified in the notice of meeting.
provided
however
Section 1.03 NOTICE OF MEETING; WAIVER. Unless otherwise required by statute, the notice of every meeting of the stockholders shall be in writing and signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer (or the President or a Vice President or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, in each case acting at the direction of the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer) and shall state the time when and the place where it is to be held, and a copy thereof shall be served, either personally or by mail, upon each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting, not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the meeting. If the meeting to be held is other than the annual meeting of stockholders, the notice shall also state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called and shall indicate that it is being issued by or at the direction of the person or persons calling the meeting. If, at any meeting, action is proposed to be taken which would, if taken, entitle stockholders to receive payment for their shares pursuant to Section 262 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the notice of such meeting shall include a statement of that
purpose and to that effect. If the notice is mailed, it shall be directed to a stockholder at the stockholder's address as it appears on the record of stockholders unless the stockholder shall have filed with the Secretary of the corporation a written request that notices intended for the stockholder be mailed to some other address, in which case it shall be mailed to the address designated in such request.
Notice of a meeting need not be given to any stockholder who submits a signed waiver of notice, in person or by proxy, whether before or after the meeting. The attendance of a stockholder at a meeting, in person or by proxy, without protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of notice of such meeting, shall constitute a waiver of notice by the stockholder.
Section 1.04 QUORUM. At any meeting of the stockholders the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote and being present in person or represented by proxy shall constitute a quorum for all purposes, unless the representation of a different number shall be required by law or by another provision of these by-laws, and in that case the representation of the number so required shall constitute a quorum.
If the holders of the amount of shares necessary to constitute a quorum shall fail to attend in person or by proxy, the holders of a majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting may adjourn from time to time without further notice other than by an announcement made at the meeting. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Section 1.05 ORGANIZATION. The Chairman of the Board of Directors or, in his absence, the Chief Executive Officer or, in his absence, the President, any Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or Vice President in the order of their seniority or in such other order as may be designated by the Board of Directors, shall call meetings of the stockholders to order and shall act as chairman of such meetings. The Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may appoint any stockholder to act as chairman of any meeting in the absence of any of such officers and in the event of such absence and the failure of such board or committee to appoint a chairman, the stockholders present at such meeting may nominate and appoint any stockholder to act as chairman.
The Secretary of the corporation, or, in his absence, an Assistant Secretary, shall act as secretary of all meetings of stockholders, but, in the absence of said officers, the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Section 1.06 VOTING. At each meeting of the stockholders every stockholder of record having the right to vote shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy.
Section 1.07 ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting on written consent, setting forth the action so taken, signed by the holders of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. Written consent thus given by the holders of all outstanding shares entitled to vote shall have the same effect as a unanimous vote of the stockholders.
Section 1.08 INSPECTORS OF ELECTION. The Board of Directors, in advance of any stockholders' meeting, may appoint one or more Inspectors of Election to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof. If Inspectors are not so appointed, the person presiding at a stockholders' meeting may, and on the request of any stockholder entitled to vote thereat, shall appoint one or more inspectors. In case any person appointed fails to appear or act, the vacancy may be filled by appointment made by the Board in advance of the meeting or at the meeting by the person presiding thereat. Inspectors shall be sworn.
Section 1.09 CONDUCT OF ELECTION. At each meeting of the stockholders, votes, proxies, consents and ballots shall be received, and all questions touching the qualification of voters, the validity of proxies and the acceptance or rejection of votes, shall be decided by the Inspectors of Election.
Section 1.10 NOTICE OF NOMINATIONS AND STOCKHOLDER BUSINESS.
(i) .
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
(a) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors or the proposal of other business to be transacted by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (A) pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (B) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof or (C) by any stockholder of the corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 10(i), who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 10(i).
(b) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting of stockholders by a stockholder pursuant to clause (C) of paragraph (i)(a) of this Section 10, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation and any such proposed business (other than the nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors) must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to, or mailed and received by, the Secretary of the corporation at the principal office of the corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders; , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than thirty (30) days prior to such anniversary date or delayed more than seventy (70) days after such anniversary date then to be timely such notice must be received by the corporation no earlier than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to such annual meeting and no later than the later of seventy (70) days prior to the date of the meeting or the tenth (10
provided, however
th
) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of the meeting was first made by the corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
(c) A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth (A) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected), (B) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend these by-laws, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made and (C) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made:
(1) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of such stockholder and any such beneficial owner;
(2) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the corporation which are held of record or are beneficially owned by such stockholder and by any such beneficial owner;
(3) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding between or among such stockholder and any such beneficial owner, any of their respective affiliates or associates, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such nomination or other business;
(4) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, convertible securities,
stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging transactions and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding that has been made, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or any such beneficial owner or any such nominee with respect to the corporation's securities;
(5) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to bring such nomination or other business before the meeting; and
(6) a representation as to whether such stockholder or any such beneficial owner intends or is part of a group that intends to (i) deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or to elect each such nominee and/or (ii) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination. If requested by the corporation, the information required under clauses (i)(c)(2), (3) and (4) of this Section 10 shall be supplemented by such stockholder and any such beneficial owner not later than ten (10) days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such information as of the record date.
(ii) . Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the corporation at a special meeting of stockholders may be made by stockholders only (a) in accordance with Section 2 of this Article 1 or (b) if the election of directors is included as business to be brought before a special meeting in the corporation's notice of meeting, then by any stockholder who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 10(ii), who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 10(ii). The proposal by stockholders of other business to be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders may be made only in accordance with Section 2 of this Article 1. For nominations to be properly brought by a stockholder before a special meeting of stockholders pursuant to Section 10(ii)(b), the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal office of the corporation (A) not earlier than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the date of the special meeting nor (B) later than the later of ninety (90) days prior to the date of the special meeting or the tenth (10
Special Meetings of Stockholders
th
) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of the special meeting was first made. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall comply with the notice requirements of Section 10(i)(c).
(iii) .
General
(a) At the request of the Board of Directors, any person nominated by the Board of Directors for election as a director shall furnish to the Secretary of the corporation the information that is required to be set forth in a stockholder's notice of nomination that pertains to the nominee. No person shall be eligible to be nominated by a stockholder to serve as a director of the corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2 of this Article 1 and this Section 10. No business shall be conducted at a stockholder meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2 of this Article 1 and this Section 10. The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these by-laws or that business was not properly brought before the meeting, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded or such business shall not be transacted, as the case may be. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 10, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation to present a nomination or other proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded or such proposed business shall not be transacted, as the case may be, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have
been received by the corporation. For purposes of this Section 10, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
(b) Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this Section 10, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 10; , , that any references in these by-laws to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit any requirements applicable to nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to this Section 10, and compliance with paragraphs (i)(a)(C) and (ii) of this Section 10 shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business (other than as provided in the last sentence of this paragraph (iii)(b)). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the notice requirements set forth herein with respect to the proposal of any business pursuant to this Section 10 other than a nomination shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if such stockholder has submitted a proposal to the corporation in compliance with Rule 14a-8 promulgated under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the corporation to solicit proxies for the meeting of stockholders.
provided
however
Section 2.01 NUMBER OF DIRECTORS. The number of directors of the corporation shall be not less than three (3) nor more than eighteen (18), as determined by action of the Board of Directors.
Section 2.02 TERM AND VACANCIES. Directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of stockholders to hold office until the next annual meeting and until their respective successors have been duly elected and have qualified.
Vacancies in the Board of Directors, from any cause whatsoever, including vacancies created by an increase in the number of directors, shall be filled by the vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum.
Directors need not be stockholders.
Section 2.03 MAJORITY VOTING. Except as otherwise provided in Section 4 of this Article 2, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to that director's election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present. For purposes of this Section 3, a majority of votes cast means that the number of votes "for" a director's election must exceed fifty percent (50%) of the votes cast with respect to that director's election. Votes "against" a director's election will count as a vote cast, but "abstentions" and "broker non-votes" will not count as a vote cast with respect to that director's election.
Section 2.04 CONTESTED ELECTIONS. If, as of the last date by which stockholders may submit notice to nominate a person for election as a director pursuant to Article 1, Section 10 of these by-laws, the number of nominees for any election of directors, exceeds the number of directors to be elected (a "Contested Election"), the nominees receiving a plurality of the votes cast by holders of shares entitled to vote in the election at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be elected.
Section 2.05 RESIGNATION AND REPLACEMENT OF UNSUCCESSFUL INCUMBENT DIRECTOR.
(i) In order for any incumbent director to become a nominee of the Board of Directors for further service on the Board of Directors, such person must submit an irrevocable resignation, which resignation shall become effective upon (i) that person not receiving a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, and (ii) acceptance by the Board of Directors of that resignation in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Board of Directors for such purpose.
(ii) The Board of Directors, acting on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, shall no later than at its first regularly scheduled meeting following certification of the shareholder vote, determine whether to accept the resignation of the unsuccessful incumbent. Absent a determination by the Board of Directors that a compelling reason exists for concluding that it is in the best interests of the corporation for an unsuccessful incumbent to remain as a director, no such person shall be elected by the Board of Directors to serve as a director, and the Board of Directors shall accept that person's resignation.
(iii) The Board of Directors shall promptly consider and act upon the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, in making this recommendation and the Board of Directors, in acting on such recommendation, may consider any factors or other information that they determine appropriate and relevant.
(iv) If the Board of Directors determines to accept the resignation of an unsuccessful incumbent, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall promptly recommend a candidate to the Board of Directors to fill the office formerly held by the unsuccessful incumbent.
(v) The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board of Directors shall take the actions required under this Section 5 without the participation of any unsuccessful incumbent except that:
(a) If every member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is an unsuccessful incumbent, then a majority of the Board of Directors shall appoint a Board committee (the "Special Nominating Committee") of independent directors (as defined below) for the purpose of considering the tendered resignations and making a recommendation to the Board of Directors whether to accept or reject them; and
(b) If the number of independent directors who are not unsuccessful incumbents is three or fewer, all directors may participate in the decisions under this Section 5.
As used above, the term "independent director" shall mean a director who complies with the "independent director" requirements under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., under law or under any rule or regulation of any other regulatory body or self regulatory body applicable to the corporation.
(vi) If the Board of Directors accepts the resignation of a director who is an unsuccessful incumbent pursuant to this by-law, or if a nominee for director who is not an incumbent director does not receive more than fifty percent (50%) of the votes cast with respect to that director's election, then the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to Section 2 of this Article 2, or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of this Article 2.
Section 2.06 RESIGNATION. Any director may resign at any time upon notice given in writing or by electronic transmission to the Chairman of the Board of Directors or to the Secretary of the corporation. A resignation is effective when the resignation is delivered unless the resignation specifies (a) a later effective date or (b) an effective date determined upon the happening of an event or events (including but not limited to a failure to receive more than fifty percent (50%) of the votes cast in an election and the Board of Directors' acceptance of the resignation).
Section 2.07 GENERAL POWERS OF DIRECTORS. The business of the corporation shall be managed under the direction of its Board of Directors subject to the restrictions imposed by law, by the corporation's certificate of incorporation and amendments thereto, or by these by-laws.
Section 2.08 MEETINGS OF DIRECTORS. The directors may hold their meetings and may keep an office and maintain the books of the corporation, except as otherwise provided by statute, in such place or places in the State of Delaware or outside the State of Delaware as the Board may, from time to time, determine.
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if all of the directors consent in writing to the adoption of a resolution authorizing the action, and in such event the resolution and the written consent of all directors thereto shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board of Directors.
Any one or more directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other at the same time, and participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at a meeting.
Section 2.09 REGULAR MEETINGS. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at the principal office of the corporation in the County of Providence, City of Woonsocket, State of Rhode Island, or at such other place within or without the State of Delaware as shall be designated in the notice of the meeting as follows: one (1) meeting shall be held immediately following the annual meeting of stockholders and further meetings shall be held at such intervals or on such dates as may from time to time be fixed by the Board of Directors, all of which meetings shall be held upon not less than four (4) days' notice served upon each director by mailing such notice to the director at the director's address as the same appears upon the records of the corporation, except the meeting which shall be held immediately following the annual meeting of stockholders which meeting shall be held without notice.
Section 2.10 SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by the direction of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or of the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation, or of one-third of the directors at the time in office. The Secretary shall give notice of each special meeting by mailing such notice not less than four days, or by telegraphing or telecopying such notice not less than two days, before the date set for a special meeting, to each director.
Section 2.11 WAIVER. Notice of a meeting need not be given to any director who submits a signed waiver of notice whether before or after the meeting, or who attends the meeting without protesting, prior thereto or at its commencement, the lack of notice to him.
Section 2.12 QUORUM. At a meeting, a majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board of Directors there be less than a quorum present, the majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time.
Section 2.13 ORDER OF BUSINESS. At meetings of the Board of Directors business shall be transacted in such order as the Board of Directors may fix and determine.
At all meetings of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or in his absence, the lead independent director, shall preside.
Section 2.14 ELECTION OF CHAIRMAN, OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES. At the first regular meeting of the Board of Directors in each year, at which a quorum shall be present, held next after the annual meeting of the stockholders, the Board of Directors shall proceed to the election of the Chairman of the Board of Directors (who may be an executive officer of the Corporation), of the executive officers of the corporation, and of the Executive Committee, if the Board of Directors shall provide for such committee under the provisions of Article 3 hereof.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Board of Directors from time to time may fill any vacancies among the Chairman, the executive officers, members of the Executive Committee and members of other committees, and may appoint additional executive officers and additional members of such Executive Committee or other committees.
Section 2.15 COMPENSATION. Directors who are not officers or employees of the corporation or any of its subsidiaries may receive such remuneration as the Board may fix, in addition to a fixed sum for attendance at each regular or special meeting of the Board or a Committee of the Board; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity or receiving compensation therefor. In addition, each director shall be entitled to reimbursement for expenses incurred in attending any meeting of the Board or Committee thereof.
Section 3.01 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The Board of Directors by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board may designate from the Directors an Executive Committee consisting of three or more, to serve at the pleasure of the Board. At all times when the Board of Directors is not in session, the Executive Committee so designated shall have and exercise the powers of the Board of Directors, except that such committee shall have no authority as to the matters set out in Section 3 of this Article 3.
Meetings of the Executive Committee shall be called by any member of the same, on three days' mailed notice, or one day's telegraphed or telecopied notice to each of the other members, stating therein the purpose for which such meeting is to be held. Notice of meeting may be waived, in writing, by any member of the Executive Committee.
All action by the Executive Committee shall be recorded in its minutes and reported from time to time to the Board of Directors.
The Executive Committee shall fix its own rules of procedure and shall meet where and as provided by such rules or by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Executive Committee may be taken without a meeting if all of the members of the Executive Committee consent in writing to the adoption of a resolution authorizing the action, and in such event the resolution and the written consent of all members of the Executive Committee thereto shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Executive Committee.
Any one or more members of the Executive Committee may participate in a meeting of the Executive Committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other at the same time, and participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at a meeting.
Section 3.02 OTHER COMMITTEES. The Board of Directors may appoint such other committees, of three or more, as the Board shall, from time to time, deem advisable, which committees shall have and may exercise such powers as shall be prescribed, from time to time, by resolution of the Board of Directors, except that such committees shall have no authority as to the matters set out in Section 3 of this Article 3.
Actions and recommendations by each committee which shall be appointed pursuant to this section shall be recorded and reported from time to time to the Board of Directors.
Each such committee shall fix its own rules of procedure and shall meet where and as provided by such rules or by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Any action required or permitted to be taken by any such committee may be taken without a meeting if all of the members of such committee consent in writing to the adoption of a resolution authorizing the action, and in such event the resolution and the written consent of all members of such committee thereto shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of such committee.
Any one or more members of any such committee may participate in a meeting of such committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other at the same time, and participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at a meeting.
Section 3.03 LIMITATIONS. No committee shall have authority as to the following matters:
(i) The approval, adoption, recommendation or submission to stockholders of any action that needs stockholders' authorization.
(ii) The filling of vacancies in the Board of Directors or in any committee.
(iii) The fixing of compensation of the directors for serving on the Board of Directors or on any committee.
(iv) The amendment or repeal of the by-laws, or the adoption of new by-laws.
(v) The amendment or repeal of any resolution of the Board of Directors which by its terms shall not be so amendable or repealable.
Section 3.04 ALTERNATES. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any such committees, who may replace any absent member or members at any meeting of such committees.
Section 3.05 COMPENSATION. Members of special or standing committees may receive such salary for their services as the Board of Directors may determine; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any member of any such committee from serving the corporation in any other capacity or receiving compensation therefor.
Section 4.01 TITLES AND TERMS OF OFFICE. The executive officers of the corporation shall be a Chief Executive Officer and a President, each of whom shall be a member of the Board of Directors, such number of Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents as the Board of Directors shall determine, and a Controller, a Treasurer and a Secretary, all of whom shall be chosen by the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors may also appoint one or more Assistant Secretaries and one or more Assistant Treasurers, and such other junior officers as it shall deem necessary, who shall have such authority and shall perform such duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
Any two or more offices except President and Vice President may be held by the same person.
The officers of the corporation shall each hold office for one year and until their successors are chosen and qualified, and, except as set forth herein, shall be subject to removal at any time by the affirmative vote of the majority of the entire Board of Directors.
Section 4.02 CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. The Board of Directors shall designate a Chairman of the Board (or one or more Co-Chairmen of the Board), who may be an executive officer of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board shall preside over the meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders at which he will be present. If there be more than one, the Co-Chairmen designated by the Board of Directors will perform such duties. The Chairman or Chairmen of the Board shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or them by the Board of Directors.
Section 4.03 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Chief Executive Officer of the corporation shall have general management and control over the policy, business and affairs of the corporation and shall have such other authority and perform such other duties as usually appertain to a chief executive officer of a business corporation. He shall exercise the powers of the Chairman of the Board of Directors during the Chairman's absence or inability to act.
Section 4.04 PRESIDENT. The President, if any, shall have such authority and shall perform such duties as the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time determine.
Section 4.05 EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENTS, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENTS. The Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents, if any, shall be designated and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to them by the
Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chief Executive Officer or the President. They shall, in order of their seniority or in such other order as may be designated by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, exercise the powers of the Chief Executive Officer during the absence or inability to act of the Chief Executive Officer and the President.
Section 4.06 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER. A Chief Financial Officer or other officer designated by the Board of Directors shall be the principal financial officer of the corporation. He shall render to the Board of Directors, whenever the Board may require, an account of the financial condition of the corporation, and shall do and perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.
Section 4.07 CONTROLLER. A Controller or other officer designated by the Board of Directors shall be the principal accounting officer of the corporation and, subject to the direction of the Chief Financial Officer, he shall have supervision over all the accounts and account books of the corporation. He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Chief Financial Officer, and shall exercise the powers of the Chief Financial Officer during his absence or inability to act.
Section 4.08 TREASURER. The Treasurer shall have custody of the funds and securities of the corporation that come into his hands. When necessary or proper, he may endorse on behalf of the corporation for collection, checks, notes, and other instruments and obligations and shall deposit the same to the credit of the corporation in such bank or banks or depositories as the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee shall designate; whenever required by the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee, he shall render a statement of his cash account; he shall keep, or cause to be kept, books of account, in which shall be entered and kept full and accurate accounts of all monies received and paid out on account of the corporation; he shall perform all acts incident to the position of Treasurer, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chief Executive Officer, the President and the Chief Financial Officer; he shall give bond for the faithful discharge of his duties, if, as, and when the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may require. He shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Chief Financial Officer.
Section 4.09 ASSISTANT TREASURER. Each Assistant Treasurer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be delegated to him, and the Assistant Treasurers shall, in the order of their seniority, or in such other order as may be designated by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Chief Financial Officer, exercise the powers of the Treasurer during his absence or inability to act.
Section 4.10 SECRETARY. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the Board of Directors and the minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Executive Committee, in books provided for that purpose; he shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the corporation; and he shall have charge of the certificate books, transfer books and records of stockholders and such other books and records as the Board of Directors or Executive Committee may direct, all of which shall at all reasonable times be open to the inspection of any director upon application during the usual business hours.
He shall keep at the office of the corporation, or at the office of the transfer agent or registrar of the corporation's capital stock, a record containing the names, alphabetically arranged, of all persons who are stockholders of the corporation, showing their places of residence, the number of shares held by them, respectively, the time when they respectively became the owners thereof, and the amount paid thereon, and such record shall be open for inspection as prescribed by Section 220 of the General Corporate Law of the State of Delaware. He shall in general perform all of the duties incident to the office of Secretary, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and the President.
Section 4.11 ASSISTANT SECRETARIES. Each Assistant Secretary shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be delegated to him, and the Assistant Secretaries shall, in the order of their seniority, or in such other order as may be designated by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, exercise the powers of the Secretary during his absence or inability to act.
Section 4.12 VOTING UPON STOCKS. Unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors or by the Executive Committee, the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation, or one designated in a proxy executed by him, and in the absence of either, the President, or a person designated in a proxy executed by him, and in the absence of all such, the Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents or the Vice Presidents of the corporation, in the order of their seniority, shall have full power and authority on behalf of the corporation to attend, and to act, and to vote at meetings of stockholders of any corporation in which this corporation may hold stock, and each such officer of the corporation shall have power to sign a proxy deputizing others to vote the same; and all such who shall be so authorized to vote shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and powers incident to the ownership of such stock and which, as the owner thereof, the corporation might have possessed and exercised, if present.
The Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may, by resolution from time to time, confer like powers on any other person or persons, which shall supersede the powers of those designated in the foregoing paragraph.
Section 4.13 EXECUTION OF CHECKS, ETC. All checks, notes, drafts or other instruments for the payment of money shall be signed on behalf of this corporation by such person or persons and in such manner as the Board of Directors or Executive Committee may prescribe by resolution from time to time.
Section 5.01. NAME OF THE CORPORATION. Any change to the name of the corporation shall require the approval of three-quarters (3/4) of the members of the Board of Directors.
Section 5.02. AMENDMENTS. Any amendment by the Board of Directors of this Article 5, or any other provision contained in these by-laws requiring approval for an action by at least three-quarters (3/4) of the members of the Board of Directors, shall require the approval of three-quarters (3/4) of the members of the Board of Directors.
Section 6.01 CERTIFICATES FOR STOCK; UNCERTIFICATED SHARES. The certificates for shares of the stock of the corporation shall be in such form as shall be proper or approved by the Board of Directors; provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of stock of the corporation shall be uncertificated shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing or the adoption of such a resolution or resolutions by the Board of Directors, each holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled, upon request, to a certificate representing such shares, to be in such form as the Board shall have approved. Any such resolution shall not apply to any share represented by a certificate theretofore issued until such certificate is surrendered to the corporation. Each certificate shall state (i) that the corporation is formed under the laws of the State of Delaware, (ii) the name of the person or persons to whom issued, (iii) the number and class of shares and the designation of the series, if any, which such certificate represents and (iv) the par value, if any, of each share represented by such certificate. Each certificate shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, the President, an Executive Vice President or a Vice President, and also by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and sealed with the corporation's seal; provided, however, that if such certificates are signed by a transfer agent or transfer clerk and by a registrar the signature of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Executive Vice President, Vice President, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer, Secretary and Assistant Secretary and the seal of the corporation upon such certificates may be facsimiles, engraved or printed. Except as otherwise provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of the holders of shares represented by certificates of the same class and series shall be identical.
Section 6.02 TRANSFER OF SHARES. Shares of the stock of the corporation may be transferred on the record of stockholders of the corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his duly authorized attorney upon surrender of a certificate therefor properly endorsed or upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the holder of uncertificated shares.
Section 6.03 AUTHORITY FOR ADDITIONAL RULES REGARDING TRANSFER. The Board of Directors and the Executive Committee shall have power and authority to make all such rules and regulations as respectively they may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificated or uncertificated shares of the stock of the corporation, as well as for the issuance of new certificates in lieu of those which may be lost or destroyed, and may require of any stockholder requesting replacement of lost or destroyed certificates, bond in such amount and in such form as they may deem expedient to indemnify the corporation, and/or the transfer agents, and/or the registrars of its stock against any claims arising in connection therewith.
Section 6.04 TRANSFER AGENTS AND REGISTRARS. The Board of Directors or Executive Committee may appoint one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars of transfer and may require all stock certificates to be countersigned by such transfer agent and registered by such registrar of transfers. One person or organization may serve as both transfer agent and registrar.
Section 6.05 RECORD DATE. For the purpose of determining the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to or dissent from any proposal without a meeting, or for the purpose of determining stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or the allotment of any rights, or for the purpose of any other action, the Board of Directors shall fix in advance a date as the record date for any such determination of stockholders. Such date shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action.
Section 6.06 LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS AS OF RECORD DATE. The Secretary of the corporation or the transfer agent of its stock shall make and certify a list of the stockholders as of the record date and number of shares of each class of stock of record in the name of each stockholder and such list shall be present at every meeting of stockholders. If the right to vote at any meeting is challenged, the inspectors of elections, or person presiding thereat, shall require such list of stockholders to be produced as evidence of the right of the persons challenged to vote at such meeting, and all persons who appear from such list to be stockholders entitled to vote thereat, may vote at such meeting.
Section 6.07 DIVIDENDS. Dividends may be declared and paid out of the surplus of the corporation as often and at such times and to such extent as the Board of Directors may determine, consistent with the provisions of the certificate of incorporation of the corporation.
Section 6.08 STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLANS.
(i) Notwithstanding anything in these by-laws to the contrary, the amendment of any Stockholder Rights Plan which has the effect of extending the term of the Stockholder Rights Plan or any rights or options provided thereunder shall require the approval of at least three-quarters (3/4) of the Board of Directors, and any Stockholder Rights Plan adopted after February 5, 2008 shall expire if not so amended no later than one (1) year following the later of the date of its adoption and the date of its last such amendment.
(ii) Paragraph (i) of this Article 6, Section 8 shall not apply to any Stockholder Rights Plan ratified by the stockholders.
(iii) "Stockholder Rights Plan" refers in this Article 6, Section 8 to any stockholder rights plan, rights agreement or any other form of "poison pill" anti-takeover device or plan which is designed to or has the effect of making an acquisition of large holdings of the corporation's shares of stock more difficult or expensive (but for avoidance of doubt, excluding any issuance or sale of securities or rights in connection with a bona fide financing transaction).
(iv) Nothing in this Article 6, Section 8 should be construed to permit or validate any decision by the Board of Directors to adopt or amend a Stockholder Rights Plan that would otherwise be prohibited or invalid under applicable Delaware law.
The Board of Directors shall provide a suitable seal containing the name of the corporation and of the state under the laws of which the corporation was incorporated; and the Secretary shall have the custody thereof.
Subject to Article 5, Section 2, these by-laws or any of them, may be altered, amended or repealed, or new by-laws may be made by the stockholders entitled to vote thereon at any annual or special meeting thereof or by the Board of Directors.

Exhibit 10.1
1. . The purpose of this 2010 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is to assist CVS Caremark Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), and its subsidiaries in attracting, retaining and rewarding high-quality executives, employees, and other persons who provide services to the Corporation and/or its subsidiaries, to enable such persons to acquire or increase a proprietary interest in the Corporation in order to strengthen the mutuality of interests between such persons and the Corporation's stockholders and to provide such persons with short- and long-term performance incentives to expend their maximum efforts in the creation of stockholder value. The Plan is also intended to qualify certain compensation awarded under the Plan for maximum tax deductibility under Code Section 162(m) (as hereafter defined) to the extent deemed appropriate by the Committee (or any successor committee) of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Purpose
2. For purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall be defined as set forth below, in addition to such terms defined in Section 1 hereof:
Definitions
.
(a) "Annual Incentive Award" means a conditional right granted to a Participant under Section 9(c) hereof to receive a cash payment, Stock or other Award, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, after the end of a specified fiscal year.
(b) "Award" means any Option, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Stock Appreciation Right, Deferred Stock, Stock granted as a bonus or in lieu of another award, Stock awarded to a director pursuant to Section 8, Dividend Equivalent, Other Stock-Based Award, Performance Award or Annual Incentive Award, together with any other right or interest granted to a Participant under the Plan.
(c) "Beneficiary" means the person, persons, trust or trusts which have been designated by a Participant in his or her most recent written beneficiary designation filed with the Committee to receive the benefits specified under the Plan upon such Participant's death or to which Awards or other rights are transferred if and to the extent permitted under Section 11(b) hereof. If, upon a Participant's death, there is no designated Beneficiary or surviving designated Beneficiary, then the term Beneficiary means person, persons, trust or trusts entitled by will or the laws of descent and distribution to receive such benefits.
(d) "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act and any successor to such Rule.
(e) "Board" means the Corporation's Board of Directors.
(f) "Change in Control" means Change in Control as defined with related terms in Section 10 of the Plan.
(g) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, including regulations thereunder and successor provisions and regulations thereto.
(h) "Committee" means a committee of two or more directors designated by the Board to administer the Plan.
(i) "Covered Employee" means an Eligible Person who is a Covered Employee as specified in Section 9(e) of the Plan.
(j) "Deferred Stock" means a right, granted to a Participant under Section 6(f) hereof, to receive Stock, cash or a combination thereof at the end of a specified deferral period.
(k) "Dividend Equivalent" means a right, granted to a Participant under Section 6(h), to receive cash, Stock, other Awards or other property equal in value to dividends paid with respect to a specified number of shares of Stock, or other periodic payments.
(l) "Effective Date" means May 12, 2010.
(m) "Eligible Person" means each Executive Officer and other officers and employees of the Corporation or of any subsidiary, including such persons who may also be directors of the Corporation, and any Eligible Director. An employee on leave of absence may be considered as still in the employ of the Corporation or a subsidiary for purposes of eligibility for participation in the Plan.
(n) "Eligible Director" means a director of the Corporation who at the relevant time is not, and for the preceding 12 months was not, an employee of the Corporation or its subsidiaries.
(o) "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, including rules thereunder and successor provisions and rules thereto.
(p) "Executive Officer" means an executive officer of the Corporation as defined under the Exchange Act.
(q) "Fair Market Value" means the fair market value of Stock, Awards or other property as determined by the Committee or under procedures established by the Committee. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Fair Market Value of Stock shall be the closing price of a share of Stock, as quoted on the composite transactions table on the New York Stock Exchange, on the date on which the determination of fair market value is being made.
(r) "Incentive Stock Option" or "ISO" means any Option intended to be and designated as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Code Section 422 or any successor provision thereto; provided, however, that only an Eligible Person who is an employee within the meaning of Code Section 422 and the regulations thereunder shall be eligible to receive an ISO.
(s) "Option" means a right, granted to a Participant under Section 6(b) hereof, to purchase Stock or other Awards at a specified price during specified time periods.
(t) "Other Stock-Based Awards" means Awards granted to a Participant under Section 6(i) hereof.
(u) "Participant" means a person who has been granted an Award under the Plan that remains outstanding, including a person who is no longer an Eligible Person.
(v) "Performance Award" means a right, granted to a Participant under Section 9 hereof, to receive Awards based upon performance criteria specified by the Committee.
(w) "Person" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, and shall include a "group" as defined in Section 13(d) thereof.
(x) "Prior Plan" means the CVS Caremark Corporation 1997 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended.
(y) "Qualified Member" means a member of the Committee who is a "Non-Employee Director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) and an "outside director" within the meaning of Regulation 1.162-27 under Code Section 162(m).
(z) "Restricted Stock" means Stock granted to a Participant under Section 6(d) hereof, that is subject to certain restrictions and to a risk of forfeiture.
(aa) "Restricted Stock Unit" shall mean a contractual right granted under Section 6(d) that represents a right to receive the value of a share of Stock upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and the applicable Award agreement.
(bb) "Rule 16b-3" means Rule 16b-3, as in effect from time to time and applicable to the Plan and Participants, promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
(cc) "Stock" means the Corporation's Common Stock, and such other securities as may be substituted (or resubstituted) for Stock pursuant to Section 11(c) hereof.
(dd) "Stock Appreciation Rights" or "SAR" means a right granted to a Participant under Section 6(c) hereof.
(ee) "Substitute Award" means an Award granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by a company acquired by the Corporation or with which the Corporation combines.
3. .
Administration
(a) . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, except to the extent the Board elects to administer the Plan, in which case references herein to the "Committee" shall be deemed to include references to the "Board". The Committee shall have full and final authority, in each case subject to and consistent with the provisions of the Plan, to select Eligible Persons to become Participants, grant Awards, determine the type, number and other terms and conditions of, and all other matters relating to, Awards, prescribe Award agreements (which need not be identical for each Participant) and rules and regulations for the administration of the Plan, construe and interpret the Plan and Award agreements and correct defects, supply omissions or reconcile inconsistencies therein and to make all other decisions and determinations as the Committee may deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.
Authority of the Committee
(b) . At any time that a member of the Committee is not a Qualified Member, any action of the Committee relating to an Award granted or to be granted to a Participant who is then subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act in respect of the Corporation, or relating to an Award intended by the Committee to qualify as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder, may be taken either (i) by a subcommittee, designated by the Committee, composed solely of two or more Qualified Members, or (ii) by the Committee but with each such member who is not a Qualified Member abstaining or recusing himself or herself from such action; provided, however, that, upon such abstention or recusal, the Committee remains composed solely of two or more Qualified Members. Such action, authorized by such a subcommittee or by the Committee upon the abstention or recusal of such non-Qualified Member(s), shall be the action of the Committee for purposes of the Plan. Any action of the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Corporation, its subsidiaries, Participants, Beneficiaries, transferees under Section 11(b) hereof or other persons claiming rights from or through a Participant, and stockholders. The express grant of any specific power to the Committee, and the taking of any action by the Committee, shall not be construed as limiting any power or authority of the Committee. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Committee may delegate to officers or managers of the Corporation or any subsidiary, or committees thereof, the authority, subject to such terms as the Committee shall determine, to perform such functions, including administrative functions, as the Committee may determine, to the extent that such delegation will not result in the loss of an exemption under Rule 16b-3(d)(1) for Awards granted to Participants subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act in respect of the Corporation and will not cause Awards intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) to fail to so qualify. The Committee may appoint agents to assist it in administering the Plan.
Manner of Exercise of Committee Authority
(c) . The Committee and each member thereof shall be entitled to rely or act upon in good faith any report or other information furnished to him or her by any executive officer, other officer or employee of the Corporation or a subsidiary, the Corporation's independent auditors, consultants or any other agents assisting in the administration of the Plan. Members of the Committee and any officer or employee of the Corporation or a subsidiary acting at the direction or on behalf of the Committee shall not be personally liable for any action or determination taken or made in good faith with respect to the Plan and shall, to the extent permitted by law, be fully indemnified and protected by the Corporation with respect to any such action or determination.
Limitation of Liability
4. .
Stock Subject to Plan
(a) . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c) hereof, the total number of shares of Stock reserved and available for delivery in connection with Awards under the Plan shall be (i) seventy-four million (74,000,000), plus (ii) the number of shares of Stock subject to awards under the Prior Plan which become available in accordance with Section 4(c) hereof after the date on which stockholders of the Corporation originally approved the adoption of this Plan; provided, however, that the total number of shares of Stock with respect to which ISOs may be granted shall not exceed eight (8) million. Any shares of Stock delivered under the Plan shall consist of authorized and unissued shares or treasury shares.
Overall Number of Shares Available for Delivery
(b) . No Award may be granted if the number of shares of Stock to be delivered in connection with such Award exceeds the number of shares of Stock remaining available under the Plan minus the number of shares of Stock issuable in settlement of Awards or relating to then-outstanding Awards. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Awards settleable only in cash shall not reduce the number of shares of Stock available under the Plan and Stock issued for Substitute Awards shall not count against the limits of Section 4(a). The Committee may adopt reasonable counting procedures to ensure appropriate counting, avoid double counting (as, for example, in the case of tandem or substitute awards) and make adjustments if the number of shares of Stock actually delivered differs from the number of shares previously counted in connection with an Award.
Application of Limitation to Grants of Awards
(c) . Shares of Stock subject to an Award under the Plan or an award under the Prior Plan that is canceled, expired, forfeited, settled in cash or otherwise terminated without a delivery of shares to the Participant, including (i) the number of shares withheld in payment of any exercise or purchase price of an Award or award or taxes relating to Awards or awards, and (ii) the number of shares surrendered in payment of any exercise or purchase price of an Award or award or taxes relating to any Award or award, will again be available for Awards under the Plan, except that if any such shares could not again be available for Awards to a particular Participant under any applicable law or regulation, such shares shall be available exclusively for Awards to Participants who are not subject to such limitation.
Availability of Shares Not Delivered Under Awards
5. . Awards may be granted under the Plan only to Eligible Persons. In each fiscal year during any part of which the Plan is in effect, an Eligible Person may not be granted Awards relating to more than three (3) million shares of Stock, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c), under each of Sections 6(b) through 6(h), 9(b) and 9(c). In addition, the maximum cash amount that may be earned under the Plan as a final Annual Incentive Award or other cash annual Award in respect of any fiscal year by any one Participant shall be ten million dollars ($10,000,000), and the maximum cash amount that may be earned under the Plan as a final Performance Award or other cash Award in respect of a performance period other than an annual period by any one Participant on an annualized basis shall be five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Eligibility
;
Per-Person Award Limitations
6. .
Specific Terms of Awards
(a) . Awards may be granted on the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 6, and with respect to directors of the Corporation, in Section 8. In addition, the Committee may impose on any Award or the exercise thereof, at the date of grant or thereafter (subject to Section 11(e)), such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine, including terms requiring forfeiture of Awards in the event of termination of employment of the Participant and terms permitting a Participant to make elections relating to his or her Award. The Committee shall retain full power and discretion to accelerate, waive or modify, at any time, any term or condition of an Award that is not mandatory under the Plan. Except in cases in which the Committee is authorized to require other forms of consideration under the Plan, or to the extent other forms of consideration must be paid to satisfy the requirements of the Delaware General Corporation Law, no consideration other than services may be required for the grant of any Award.
General
(b) . The Committee is authorized to grant Options to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
Options
(i) The exercise price per share of Stock purchasable under an Option shall be determined by the Committee, provided that such exercise price shall be not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant of such Option except as provided under the first sentence of Section 7(a) hereof.
Exercise Price.
(ii) . The Committee shall determine the time or times at which or the circumstances under which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), the methods by which such exercise price may be paid or deemed to be paid, the form of such payment, including, without limitation, cash, Stock, other Awards or awards granted under other plans of the Corporation or any subsidiary, or other property, and the methods by or forms in which Stock will be delivered or deemed to be delivered to Participants.
Time and Method of Exercise
(iii) The terms of any ISO granted under the Plan shall comply in all respects with the provisions of Code Section 422. Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, no term of the Plan relating to ISOs shall be interpreted, amended or altered, nor shall any discretion or authority granted under the Plan be exercised, so as to disqualify either the Plan or any ISO under Code Section 422, unless the Participant has first requested the change that will result in such disqualification.
ISOs.
(c) . The Committee is authorized to grant SARs to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
Stock Appreciation Rights
(i) . A SAR shall confer on the Participant to whom it is granted a right to receive, upon exercise thereof, the excess of (A) the Fair Market Value of one share of Stock on the date of exercise over (B) the grant price of the SAR as determined by the Committee.
Right to Payment
(ii) . The Committee shall determine at the date of grant or thereafter, the time or times at which and the circumstances under which a SAR may be exercised in whole or in part (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), the method of exercise, method of settlement, form of consideration payable in settlement, method by or forms in which Stock will be delivered or deemed to be delivered to Participants, whether or not a SAR shall be in tandem or in combination with any other Award and any other terms and conditions of any SAR. SARs may be either freestanding or in tandem with other Awards.
Other Terms
(d) The Committee is authorized to grant Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units.
(i) . Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability, risk of forfeiture and other restrictions, if any, as the Committee may impose, which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, under such circumstances (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), in such installments or otherwise, as the Committee may determine at the date of grant or thereafter. Except to the extent restricted under the terms of the Plan and any Award agreement relating to the Restricted Stock, a Participant granted Restricted Stock shall have all of the rights of a stockholder, including the right to vote the Restricted Stock and the right to receive dividends thereon (subject to any mandatory reinvestment or other requirement imposed by the Committee). During the restricted period applicable to the Restricted Stock, subject to Section 11(b) below, the Restricted Stock may not be sold, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, margined or otherwise encumbered by the Participant. Restricted Stock Units may be settled in Stock, cash equal to the Fair Market Value of the specified number of shares of Stock covered by the Units, or a combination thereof, as determined by the Committee at the date of grant or thereafter.
Grant and Restrictions
(ii) Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, upon termination of employment during the applicable restriction period, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units that are at that time subject to restrictions shall be forfeited, provided that the Committee may provide, by rule or regulation or in any Award agreement, or may determine in any individual case, that restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall be waived in whole or in part in the event of terminations resulting from specified causes and the Committee may in other cases waive in whole or in part the forfeiture of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units.
Forfeiture.
(iii) . Restricted Stock granted under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall determine. If certificates representing Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the Participant, the Committee may require that such certificates bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock, that the Corporation retain physical possession of the certificates and that the Participant deliver a stock power to the Corporation, endorsed in blank, relating to the Restricted Stock.
Certificates for Stock
(iv) . As a condition to the grant of an Award of Restricted Stock, the Committee may require that any cash dividends paid on a share of Restricted Stock be automatically reinvested in additional shares of Restricted Stock or applied to the purchase of additional Awards under the Plan. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, Stock distributed in connection with a Stock split or Stock dividend, and other property distributed as a dividend, shall be subject to restrictions and a risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Restricted Stock with respect to which such Stock or other property has been distributed. The Committee shall determine and specify in the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement the effect, if any, of dividends paid on Stock during the period such Award is outstanding.
Dividends and Splits
(e) . The Committee is authorized to grant Deferred Stock to Participants, which are rights to receive Stock, cash, or a combination thereof at the end of a specified deferral period, subject to the following terms and conditions:
Deferred Stock
(i) . Satisfaction of an Award of Deferred Stock shall occur upon expiration of the deferral period specified for such Deferred Stock by the Committee (or, if permitted by the Committee, as elected by the Participant). In addition, Deferred Stock shall be subject to such restrictions (which may include a risk of forfeiture) as the Committee may impose, if any, which restrictions may lapse at the expiration of the deferral period or at earlier specified times (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), separately or in combination, in installments or otherwise, as the Committee may determine. Deferred Stock may be satisfied by delivery of Stock, cash equal to the Fair Market Value of the specified number of shares of Stock covered by the Deferred Stock, or a combination thereof, as determined by the Committee at the date of grant or thereafter.
Award and Restrictions
(ii) . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, upon termination of employment during the applicable deferral period or portion thereof to which forfeiture conditions apply (as provided in the Award agreement evidencing the Deferred Stock), all Deferred Stock that is at that time subject to deferral (other than a deferral at the election of the Participant) shall be forfeited; provided that the Committee may provide, by rule or regulation or in any Award agreement, or may determine in any individual case, that restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Deferred Stock shall be waived in whole or in part in the event of terminations resulting from specified causes, and the Committee may in other cases waive in whole or in part the forfeiture of Deferred Stock.
Forfeiture
(iii) . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at date of grant, Dividend Equivalents on the specified number of shares of Stock covered by an Award of Deferred Stock shall be either (A) paid with respect to such Deferred Stock at the dividend payment date in cash or in shares of unrestricted Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such dividends, or (B) deferred with respect to such Deferred Stock and the amount or value thereof automatically deemed reinvested in additional Deferred Stock, other Awards or other investment vehicles, as the Committee shall determine or permit the Participant to elect.
Dividend Equivalents
(f) . The Committee is authorized to grant Stock as a bonus, or to grant Stock or other Awards in lieu of obligations to pay cash or deliver other property under the Plan or under other plans or compensatory arrangements, provided that, in the case of Participants subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, the amount of such grants remains within the discretion of the Committee to the extent necessary to ensure that acquisitions of Stock or other Awards are exempt from liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. Stock or Awards granted hereunder shall be subject to such other terms as shall be determined by the Committee. In the case of any grant of Stock to an officer of the Corporation in lieu of salary or other cash compensation, the number of shares granted in place of such compensation shall be reasonable, as determined by the Committee.
Bonus Stock and Awards in Lieu of Obligations
(g) . Except with respect to Options and SARs, the Committee is authorized to grant Dividend Equivalents to a Participant, entitling the Participant to receive cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property equal in value to dividends paid with respect to a specified number of shares of Stock, or other periodic payments. Dividend Equivalents may be awarded on a free-standing basis or in connection with another Award. The Committee may provide that Dividend Equivalents shall be paid or distributed when accrued or shall be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Stock, Awards, or other investment vehicles and subject to such restrictions on transferability and risks of forfeiture, as the Committee may specify.
Dividend Equivalents
(h) . The Committee is authorized, subject to limitations under applicable law, to grant to Participants such other Awards that may be denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on, or related to, Stock, as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan, including, without limitation, convertible or exchangeable debt securities, other rights convertible or exchangeable into Stock, purchase rights for Stock, Awards with value and payment contingent upon performance of the Corporation or any other factors designated by the Committee and Awards valued by reference to the book value of Stock or the value of securities of or the performance of specified subsidiaries. The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of such Awards. Stock delivered pursuant to an Award in the nature of a purchase right granted under this Section 6(h) shall be purchased for such consideration, paid for at such times, by such methods, and in such forms, including, without limitation, cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property, as the Committee shall determine. Cash awards, as an element of or supplement to any other Award under the Plan, may also be granted pursuant to this Section 6(h).
Other Stock-Based Awards
7. .
Certain Provisions Applicable to Awards
(a) . Awards granted under the Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted at any time, either alone or in addition to, in tandem with, or in substitution or exchange for, any other Award or any award granted under another plan of the Corporation, any subsidiary, or any business entity to be acquired by the Corporation or a subsidiary, or any other right of a Participant to receive payment from the Corporation or any subsidiary, but if an Award is granted in substitution or exchange for another Award or award, the Committee shall require the surrender of such other Award or award in consideration for the grant of the new Award. In addition, Awards may be granted in lieu of cash compensation, including in lieu of cash amounts payable under other plans of the Corporation or any subsidiary, in which the value of Stock subject to the Award (for example, Deferred Stock or Restricted Stock) is equivalent in value to the cash compensation, provided, however, that any such Award that is an Option shall have an exercise price that is at least one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant of such Option. Notwithstanding the foregoing language of this Section 7(a), no outstanding Option or SAR may be amended to decrease the exercise price except in accordance with Section 11(c) and no outstanding Option or SAR may be surrendered in exchange for another Award.
Stand-Alone, Additional, Tandem and Substitute Awards
(b) . The term of each Award shall be for such period as may be determined by the Committee; provided that in no event shall the term of any Option exceed a period of ten years (or such shorter term as may be required in respect of an ISO under Code Section 422).
Term of Awards
(c) . Subject to the terms of the Plan, including but not limited to Section 11(l), and any applicable Award agreement, (i) payments to be made by the Corporation or a subsidiary upon the exercise of an Option or other Award or settlement of an Award may be made in such forms as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, cash, Stock, other Awards or other property, and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis, (ii) the settlement of any Award may be accelerated, and cash paid in lieu of Stock in connection with such settlement, in the discretion of the Committee or upon occurrence of one or more specified events (in addition to a Change in Control), (iii) installment or deferred payments may be required by the Committee (subject to Section 11(e) of the Plan, including the consent provisions thereof in the case of any deferral of an outstanding Award not provided for in the original Award agreement) or permitted at the election of the Participant on terms and conditions established by the Committee, and (iv) payments may include, without limitation, provisions for the payment or crediting of reasonable interest on installment or deferred payments or the grant or crediting of Dividend Equivalents or other amounts in respect of installment or deferred payments denominated in Stock.
Form and Timing of Payment under Awards; Deferrals
(d) . It is the intent of the Corporation that the grant of any Awards to or other transaction by a Participant who is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act shall be exempt under Rule 16b-3 (except for transactions acknowledged in writing to be non-exempt by such Participant). Accordingly, if any provision of this Plan or any Award agreement does not comply with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 as then applicable to any such transaction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to the applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3 so that such Participant shall avoid liability under Section 16(b).
Exemptions from Section 16(b) Liability
(e) . Unless the Award agreement specifies otherwise, the Committee may cancel any unexpired, unpaid, or deferred Awards at any time, and the Corporation shall have the additional rights set forth in Section 7(e)(iv) below, if the Participant is not in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Award agreement and the Plan including the following conditions:
Cancellation and Rescission of Awards
(i) While employed by the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries, a Participant shall not render services for any organization or engage directly or indirectly in any business that, in the judgment of the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation or other senior officer designated by the Committee, is or becomes competitive with the Corporation.
(ii) A Participant shall not, without prior written authorization from the Corporation, disclose to anyone outside the Corporation, or use in other than the Corporation's business, any confidential information or material relating to the business of the Corporation that is acquired by the Participant either during or after employment with the Corporation.
(iii) A Participant shall disclose promptly and assign to the Corporation all right, title, and interest in any invention or idea, patentable or not, made or conceived by the Participant during employment by the Corporation, relating in any manner to the actual or anticipated business, research or development work of the Corporation and shall do anything reasonably necessary to enable the Corporation to secure a patent where appropriate in the United States and in foreign countries.
(iv)(A) Upon exercise, settlement, payment or delivery pursuant to an Award, the Participant shall certify on a form acceptable to the Committee that he or she is in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Plan. Failure to comply with the provisions of this Section 7(e) prior to, or during the six (6) months after, any exercise, payment or delivery pursuant to an Award shall cause such exercise, payment or delivery to be rescinded. The Corporation shall notify the Participant in writing of any such rescission within two years after such exercise, payment or delivery. Within ten (10) days after receiving such a notice from the Corporation, the Participant shall pay to the Corporation the amount of any gain realized or payment received as a result of the rescinded exercise, payment or delivery pursuant to an Award. Such payment shall be made either in cash or by returning to the Corporation the number of shares of Stock that the Participant received in connection with the rescinded exercise, payment or delivery.
(B) To the extent determined by the Committee, all Awards shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Corporation's recoupment policy as it exists from time to time.
(f) . Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Deferred Stock, and Other Stock-Based Awards, as described in Section 6(d), 6(e) and 6(h) of the Plan, respectively, granted to employees generally will vest over a minimum period of three (3) years, except in the event of a Participant's death, disability, or retirement, or in the event of a Change in Control or other special circumstances and (i) Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Deferred Stock, and Other StockBased Awards as to which either the grant or the vesting is based on the achievement of one or more performance conditions generally will vest over a minimum period of one (1) year except in the event of a Participant's death, disability, or retirement, or in the event of a Change in Control or other special circumstances, and (ii) up to five percent (5%) of the shares of Stock authorized under the Plan may be granted as Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Deferred Stock, or Other Stock-Based Awards without any minimum vesting requirements. For purposes of this Section 7(f), vesting over a three (3)-year period or one (1)-year period will include periodic vesting over such period if the rate of such vesting is proportional throughout such period.
Limitation of Vesting of Certain Awards
8. .
Special Rules for Directors
(a) . Eligible Directors may receive Awards, including without limitation Awards in respect of their annual retainer and any additional retainers for chairing a committee of the board or serving as lead independent director.
Awards
(b) . Each Eligible Director may elect to defer the receipt of shares otherwise currently payable to such Eligible Director under Section 8(a) of this Plan until such
Deferral of Shares by Directors
Eligible Director terminates service as a director or such other date or event as permitted under rules established by the Board and uniformly applied. In that event, such Eligible Director shall be granted an award of share credits equal to the number of shares of Stock elected to be deferred, including fractional share credits to not less than three decimal places.
(c) . As soon as practicable after an Eligible Director has ceased being a Director of the Corporation or such other date or event elected by an Eligible Director under Section 8(b), all awards shall be paid to the Eligible Director or, in the case of the death of the Eligible Director, the Eligible Director's designated beneficiary or beneficiaries, or in the absence of a designated beneficiary, to the estate of the Eligible Director, in a single payment or installments as elected by the Eligible Director.
Settlement
(d) .
Dividend Equivalents
(i) In addition to the payment provided for in Section 8(c), each Eligible Director (or beneficiary) entitled to payment under this Section 8(d) shall receive at the same time the dividend equivalent amounts calculated under subsection (ii) below.
(ii) The dividend equivalent amount is the number of additional share credits attributable to the number of share credits originally granted plus additional share credits previously calculated hereunder. Such additional share credits shall be determined and credited as of each dividend payment date by dividing the aggregate cash dividends that would have been paid had share credits awarded or credited (but not yet paid) under this Section 8(d), as the case may be, been actual shares of Stock on the record date for such dividend by the market price per share of Stock on the dividend payment date. For this purpose, the market price on any day shall be the average of the highest and lowest sales price of Stock as quoted on the composite transactions table for such day, unless the Board determines that another procedure for determining market price would be more appropriate. Fractional share credits shall be calculated to not less than three decimal places.
(e) . Payments pursuant to Sections 8(c) and 8(d) above shall be made in shares of Stock, except that there shall be paid in cash the value of any fractional share.
Payment; Fractional Shares
9. .
Performance and Annual Incentive Awards
(a) . The right of a Participant to exercise or receive a grant or settlement of any Award, and the timing thereof, may be subject to such performance conditions as may be specified by the Committee. The Committee may use such business criteria and other measures of performance as it may deem appropriate in establishing any performance conditions and may exercise its discretion to reduce or increase the amounts payable under any Award subject to performance conditions, except as limited under Sections 9(b) and 9(c) hereof in the case of a Performance Award or Annual Incentive Award intended to qualify under Code Section 162(m).
Performance Conditions
(b) . If the Committee determines that a Performance Award to be granted to an Eligible Person who is designated by the Committee as likely to be a Covered Employee should qualify as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Code Section 162(m), the grant, exercise and/or settlement of such Performance Award shall be contingent upon achievement of pre-established performance goals and other terms set forth in this Section 9(b).
Performance Awards Granted to Designated Covered Employees
(i) . The performance goals for such Performance Awards shall consist of one or more business criteria and a targeted level or levels of performance with respect to each of such criteria, as specified by the Committee consistent with this Section 9(b). Performance goals shall be objective and shall otherwise meet the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder (including Regulation 1.162-27 and successor regulations thereto), including the requirement that the level or levels of performance targeted by the Committee result in the achievement of performance goals being "substantially uncertain." The Committee may determine that such Performance Awards shall be granted, exercised and/or settled upon achievement of any one performance goal or that two or more of the performance goals must be achieved as a condition to grant, exercise and/or settlement of such Performance Awards. Performance goals may differ for Performance Awards granted to any one Participant or to different Participants.
Performance Goals Generally
(ii) . One or more of the following business criteria for the Corporation, on a consolidated basis, and/or for specified subsidiaries or business units of the Corporation (except with respect to the total stockholder return and earnings per share criteria), shall be used by the Committee in establishing performance goals for such Performance Awards: (1) earnings per share; (2) revenues; (3) cash flow; (4) cash flow return on investment; (5) return on net assets, return on assets, return on investment, return on capital, return on equity; (6) economic value added; (7) operating margin; (8) Common Knowledge Retail Customer Service score or a similar customer service measurement as measured by a third-party administrator; (9) Pharmacy Benefit Services Customer Satisfaction score; (10) net income; pretax earnings; pretax earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization; pretax operating earnings after interest expense and before incentives, service fees and extraordinary or special items; operating earnings; (11) total stockholder return; or (12) any of the above goals as compared to the performance of a published or special index deemed applicable by the Committee including, but not limited to, the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index or a group of comparator companies. One or more of the foregoing business criteria shall also be exclusively used in establishing performance goals for Annual Incentive Awards granted to a Covered Employee under Section 9(c) hereof.
Business Criteria
(iii) . Achievement of performance goals in respect of such Performance Awards shall be measured over a performance period of up to ten years, as specified by the Committee. Performance goals shall be established not later than ninety (90) days after the beginning of any performance period applicable to such Performance Awards, or at such other date as may be required or permitted for "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m).
Performance Period; Timing for Establishing Performance Goals
(iv) . The Committee may establish a Performance Award pool, which shall be an unfunded pool, for purposes of measuring performance of the Corporation in connection with Performance Awards. The amount of such Performance Award pool shall be based upon the achievement of a performance goal or goals based on one or more of the business criteria set forth in Section 9(b)(ii) hereof during the given performance period, as specified by the Committee in accordance with Section 9(b)(iii) hereof. The Committee may specify the amount of the Performance Award pool as a percentage of any of such business criteria, a percentage thereof in excess of a threshold amount, or as another amount that need not bear a strictly mathematical relationship to such business criteria. The maximum amount payable to any Participant shall be a stated percentage of the pool; provided the sum of such percentages shall not exceed one hundred percent (100%) and the payment does not exceed the per-person award limit set forth in Section 5.
Performance Award Pool
(v) . Settlement of such Performance Awards shall be in cash, Stock, other Awards or other property, at the discretion of the Committee. The Committee may, in its discretion, reduce the amount of a settlement otherwise to be made in connection with such Performance Awards, but may not exercise discretion to increase any such amount payable to a Covered Employee in respect of a Performance Award subject to this Section 9(b). The Committee shall specify the circumstances in which such Performance Awards shall be paid or forfeited in the event of termination of employment of the Participant prior to the end of a performance period or settlement of Performance Awards.
Settlement of Performance Awards; Other Terms
(c) . If the Committee determines that an Annual Incentive Award to be granted to an Eligible Person who is designated by the Committee as likely to be a Covered Employee should qualify as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Code Section 162(m), the grant, exercise and/or settlement of such Annual Incentive Award shall be contingent upon achievement of pre-established performance goals and other terms set forth in this Section 9(c).
Annual Incentive Awards Granted to Designated Covered Employees
(i) . The Committee may establish an Annual Incentive Award pool, which shall be an unfunded pool, for purposes of measuring performance of the Corporation in connection with Annual Incentive Awards. The amount of such Annual Incentive Award pool shall be based upon the achievement of a performance goal or goals based on one or more of the business criteria set forth in Section 9(b)(ii) hereof during the given performance period, as specified by the Committee in accordance with Section 9(b)(iii) hereof. The Committee may specify the amount of the Annual Incentive Award pool as a percentage of any of such
Annual Incentive Award Pool
business criteria, a percentage thereof in excess of a threshold amount, or as another amount that need not bear a strictly mathematical relationship to such business criteria. The maximum amount payable to any Participant shall be a stated percentage of the pool; provided the sum of such percentages shall not exceed one hundred percent (100%) and the payment does not exceed the per-person award limit set forth in Section 5.
(ii) . Not later than the end of the 90th day of each fiscal year, or at such other date as may be required or permitted in the case of Awards intended to be "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m), the Committee shall determine the Eligible Persons who will potentially receive Annual Incentive Awards, and the amounts potentially payable thereunder, for that fiscal year, either out of an Annual Incentive Award pool established by such date under Section 9(c)(i) hereof or as individual Annual Incentive Awards. In the case of individual Annual Incentive Awards intended to qualify under Code Section 162(m), the amount potentially payable shall be based upon the achievement of a performance goal or goals based on one or more of the business criteria set forth in Section 9(b)(ii) hereof in the given performance year, as specified by the Committee; in other cases, such amount shall be based on such criteria as shall be established by the Committee. In all cases, the maximum Annual Incentive Award of any Participant shall be subject to the limitation set forth in Section 5 hereof.
Potential Annual Incentive Awards
(iii) . After the end of each fiscal year, the Committee shall determine the amount, if any, of (A) the Annual Incentive Award pool, and the maximum amount of potential Annual Incentive Award payable to each Participant in the Annual Incentive Award pool, or (B) the amount of potential Annual Incentive Award otherwise payable to each Participant. The Committee may, in its discretion, determine that the amount payable to any Participant as a final Annual Incentive Award shall be increased or reduced from the amount of his or her potential Annual Incentive Award, including a determination to make no final Award whatsoever, but may not exercise discretion to increase any such amount in the case of an Annual Incentive Award intended to qualify under Code Section 162(m). The Committee shall specify the circumstances in which an Annual Incentive Award shall be paid or forfeited in the event of termination of employment by the Participant prior to the end of a fiscal year or settlement of such Annual Incentive Award.
Payout of Annual Incentive Awards
(d) . All determinations by the Committee as to the establishment of performance goals, the amount of any Performance Award pool or potential individual Performance Awards and as to the achievement of performance goals relating to Performance Awards under Section 9(b), and the amount of any Annual Incentive Award pool or potential individual Annual Incentive Awards and the amount of final Annual Incentive Awards under Section 9(c), shall be made in writing in the case of any Award intended to qualify under Code Section 162(m). The Committee may not delegate any responsibility relating to such Performance Awards or Annual Incentive Awards.
Written Determinations
(e) . It is the intent of the Corporation that Performance Awards and Annual Incentive Awards under Sections 9(b) and 9(c) hereof granted to persons who are designated by the Committee as likely to be Covered Employees within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder (including Regulation 1.162-27 and successor regulations thereto) shall, if so designated by the Committee, constitute "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder. Accordingly, the terms of Sections 9(b) through (e), including the definitions of Covered Employee and other terms used therein, shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder. The foregoing notwithstanding, because the Committee cannot determine with certainty whether a given Participant will be a Covered Employee with respect to a fiscal year that has not yet been completed, the term Covered Employee as used herein shall mean only a person designated by the Committee, at the time of grant of Performance Awards or an Annual Incentive Award, as likely to be a Covered Employee with respect to that fiscal year. If any provision of the Plan as in effect on the date of adoption or any agreements relating to Performance Awards or Annual Incentive Awards that are designated as intended to comply with Code Section 162(m) does not comply or is inconsistent with the requirements of Code Section 162(m) or regulations thereunder, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such requirements.
Status of Section 9(b) and Section 9(c) Awards under Code Section 162(m)
10. .
Change in Control
(a) ". In the event of a "Change in Control," the following provisions shall apply unless otherwise provided in the Award agreement:
Effect of "Change in Control
(i) Any Award carrying a right to exercise that was not previously exercisable and vested shall become fully exercisable and vested as of the time of the Change in Control and shall remain exercisable and vested for the balance of the stated term of such Award without regard to any termination of employment by the Participant, subject only to applicable restrictions set forth in Section 11(a) hereof;
(ii) The restrictions, deferral of settlement and forfeiture conditions applicable to any other Award granted under the Plan shall lapse and such Awards shall be deemed fully vested as of the time of the Change in Control, except to the extent of any waiver by the Participant and subject to applicable restrictions set forth in Section 11(a) hereof; and
(iii) With respect to any outstanding Award subject to achievement of performance goals and conditions under the Plan, such performance goals and other conditions will be deemed to be met if and to the extent so provided by the Committee in the Award agreement relating to such Award.
(b) . A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if:
Definition of "Change in Control"
(i) any Person (other than (w) the Corporation, (x) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under any employee benefit plan of the Corporation, (y) any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Corporation immediately after the occurrence with respect to which the evaluation is being made in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the common stock of the Corporation immediately prior to such occurrence, or (z) any surviving or resulting entity from a merger or consolidation referred to in clause (iii) below that does not constitute a Change of Control under clause (iii) below) becomes the Beneficial Owner (except that a Person shall be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of all shares that any such Person has the right to acquire pursuant to any agreement or arrangement or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options or otherwise, without regard to the sixty (60) day period referred to in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), as directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation or of any subsidiary owning directly or indirectly all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation (a "Significant Subsidiary"), representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the Corporation's or such Significant Subsidiary's then outstanding securities;
(ii) during any period of twelve (12) consecutive months, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board, and any new director whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Corporation's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the twelve (12) month period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board;
(iii) the consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any Significant Subsidiary with any other entity, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Corporation or a Significant Subsidiary outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving or resulting entity) more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the surviving or resulting entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or
(iv) the consummation of a transaction (or series of transactions within a twelve (12)-month period) which constitutes the sale or disposition of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation but in no event assets having a gross fair market value of less than forty percent (40%) of the total gross fair market value of all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation (other than such a sale or disposition immediately after which such assets will be owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of the Corporation in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the common stock of the Corporation immediately prior to such sale or disposition.
11. .
General Provisions
(a) . The Corporation may, to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the Committee, postpone the issuance or delivery of Stock or payment of other benefits under any Award until completion of such registration or qualification of such Stock or other required action under any federal or state law, rule or regulation, listing or other required action with respect to any stock exchange or automated quotation system upon which the Stock or other securities of the Corporation are listed or quoted, or compliance with any other obligation of the Corporation, as the Committee may consider appropriate, and may require any Participant to make such representations, furnish such information and comply with or be subject to such other conditions as it may consider appropriate in connection with the issuance or delivery of Stock or payment of other benefits in compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, listing requirements, or other obligations. The foregoing notwithstanding, in connection with a Change in Control, the Corporation shall take or cause to be taken no action, and shall undertake or permit to arise no legal or contractual obligation, that results or would result in any postponement of the issuance or delivery of Stock or payment of benefits under any Award or the imposition of any other conditions on such issuance, delivery or payment, to the extent that such postponement or other condition would represent a greater burden on a Participant than existed on the ninetieth (90
Compliance with Legal and Other Requirements
th
) day preceding the Change in Control.
(b) . No Award or other right or interest of a Participant under the Plan shall be pledged, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered or subject to any lien, obligation or liability of such Participant to any party (other than the Corporation or a subsidiary), or assigned or transferred by such Participant otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or to a Beneficiary upon the death of a Participant, and such Awards or rights that may be exercisable shall be exercised during the lifetime of the Participant only by the Participant or his or her guardian or legal representative, except that Awards and other rights (other than ISOs in tandem therewith) may be transferred (without receipt of value from the transferee) to one or more Beneficiaries, family members or other permitted transferees designated by the Committee during the lifetime of the Participant, and may be exercised by such transferees in accordance with the terms of such Award, but only if and to the extent such transfers are permitted by the Committee pursuant to the express terms of an Award agreement (subject to any terms and conditions which the Committee may impose thereon). A Beneficiary, transferee, or other person claiming any rights under the Plan from or through any Participant shall be subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan and any Award agreement applicable to such Participant, except as otherwise determined by the Committee, and to any additional terms and conditions deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee.
Limits on Transferability; Beneficiaries
(c) In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Stock, or other property), recapitalization, forward or reverse split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination, repurchase, share exchange, liquidation, dissolution or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Stock such that an adjustment is determined by the Committee to be appropriate under the Plan, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, adjust any or all of (i) the number and kind of shares of Stock which may be delivered in connection with Awards granted thereafter, (ii) the number and kind of shares of Stock by which annual per-person Award limitations are measured under Section 5 hereof, (iii) the number and kind of shares of Stock subject to or deliverable in respect of outstanding Awards, and (iv) the exercise price, grant price or purchase price relating to any Award and/or make provision for payment of cash or other property in respect of any outstanding Award. In addition, the Committee is authorized to make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards (including Performance Awards and performance goals, and Annual Incentive Awards and any Annual Incentive Award pool or performance goals relating thereto) in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, events described in the preceding sentence, as well as acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and assets) affecting the Corporation, any subsidiary or any business unit, or the financial statements of the Corporation or any subsidiary, or in response to changes in applicable laws, regulations, accounting principles, tax rates and regulations or business conditions or in view of the Committee's assessment of the business strategy of the Corporation, any subsidiary or business unit thereof, performance of comparable organizations, economic
Adjustments.
and business conditions, personal performance of a Participant, and any other circumstances deemed relevant; provided that no such adjustment shall be authorized or made if and to the extent that such authority or the making of such adjustment would cause Performance Awards granted under Section 9(b) hereof or Annual Incentive Awards granted under Section 9(c) hereof to Participants designated by the Committee as Covered Employees and intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder to otherwise fail to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder.
(d) The Corporation and any subsidiary is authorized to withhold from any Award granted, any payment relating to an Award under the Plan, including from a distribution of Stock, or any payroll or other payment to a Participant, amounts of withholding and other taxes required to be withheld by the applicable employment tax rules in connection with any transaction involving an Award, and to take such other action as the Committee may deem advisable to enable the Corporation to satisfy obligations for the payment of withholding taxes relating to any Award. This authority shall include authority to withhold or receive Stock or other property and to make cash payments in respect thereof in satisfaction of such withholding tax obligations.
Taxes.
(e) . The Board may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate the Plan or the Committee's authority to grant Awards under the Plan without the consent of stockholders or Participants, except that any amendment or alteration to the Plan shall be subject to the approval of the Corporation's stockholders not later than the annual meeting next following such Board action if such stockholder approval is required by any federal or state law or regulation or the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Stock may then be listed or quoted, or if the amendment increases the number of shares of Stock reserved and available for delivery in connection with Awards, materially modifies the requirements as to eligibility for participation in the Plan, or materially increases the benefits accruing to Participants, and the Board may otherwise, in its discretion, determine to submit other such changes to the Plan to stockholders for approval; provided that, without the consent of an affected Participant, no such Board action may materially and adversely affect the rights of such Participant under any previously granted and outstanding Award. Subject to the provisions of Section 7(a) the Committee may waive any conditions or rights under, or amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate any Award theretofore granted and any Award agreement relating thereto, except as otherwise provided in the Plan; provided that, without the consent of an affected Participant, no such Committee action may materially and adversely affect the rights of such Participant under such Award.
Changes to the Plan and Awards
(f) . Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as (i) giving any Eligible Person or Participant the right to continue as an Eligible Person or Participant or in the employ or service of the Corporation or a subsidiary, (ii) interfering in any way with the right of the Corporation or a subsidiary to terminate any Eligible Person's or Participant's employment or service at any time, (iii) giving an Eligible Person or Participant any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan or to be treated uniformly with other Participants and employees, or (iv) conferring on a Participant any of the rights of a stockholder of the Corporation unless and until the Participant is duly issued or transferred shares of Stock in accordance with the terms of an Award.
Limitation on Rights Conferred under Plan
(g) . The Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant or obligation to deliver Stock pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award shall give any such Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Corporation; provided that the Committee may authorize the creation of trusts and deposit therein cash, Stock, other Awards or other property, or make other arrangements to meet the Corporation's obligations under the Plan. Such trusts or other arrangements shall be consistent with the "unfunded" status of the Plan unless the Committee otherwise determines with the consent of each affected Participant. The trustee of such trusts may be authorized to dispose of trust assets and reinvest the proceeds in alternative investments, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may specify and in accordance with applicable law.
Unfunded Status of Awards; Creation of Trusts
(h) . Neither the adoption of the Plan by the Board nor its submission to the stockholders of the Corporation for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or a committee thereof to adopt such other incentive arrangements as it may deem desirable including incentive arrangements and awards which do not qualify under Code Section 162(m).
Non-exclusivity of the Plan
(i) . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, in the event of a forfeiture of an Award with respect to which a Participant paid cash or other consideration, the Participant shall be repaid the amount of such cash or other consideration. No fractional shares of Stock shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, other Awards or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of such fractional shares or whether such fractional shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
Payments in the Event of Forfeitures; Fractional Shares
(j) . The validity, construction and effect of the Plan, any rules and regulations under the Plan, and any Award agreement shall be determined in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law, without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws, and applicable federal law.
Governing Law
(k) Except as may be specifically provided in the Award agreement, each Award under the Plan shall be subject to the terms of the Corporation's Recoupment Policy as it exists from time to time.
Recoupment Policy.
(l) . With respect to Awards subject to Code Section 409A, the Plan is intended to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A, and the provisions hereof shall be interpreted in a manner that satisfies the requirements of Code Section 409A and the related regulations, and the Plan shall be operated accordingly. If any provision of the Plan or any term or condition of any Award would otherwise frustrate or conflict with this intent, the provision, term or condition will be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid this conflict. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant is determined under rules adopted by the Committee to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) and as defined in the Corporation's Universal 409A Definition Document, payment under any Award hereunder shall be delayed to the extent necessary to avoid a violation of Code Section 409A.
Code Section 409A
(m) Plan E. The Plan has been adopted by the Board effective May 12, 2010, subject to approval by the stockholders of the Corporation. Unless an extension is approved by the stockholders of the Corporation, the Plan shall have a term that expires on May 11, 2020, after which no further Awards may be made, provided, however, that the provisions of the Plan shall continue to apply to Awards made prior to such date.
ffective Date and Stockholder Approval; Expiration Date

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
WOONSOCKET, RHODE ISLAND, May 12, 2010CVS Caremark Corporation (NYSE: CVS), today announced that Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Thomas M. Ryan will retire from his position as Chief Executive Officer of the Company at next year's Annual Meeting of Shareholders in May 2011.
The Board of Directors is appointing Larry J. Merlo, 54, as President and Chief Operating Officer, and anticipates Mr. Merlo will succeed Mr. Ryan as CEO. Mr. Merlo, a seasoned executive with 31 years of experience, including 20 with CVS, is also being elected to the Company's Board of Directors. Effective immediately, Mr. Merlo will assume additional responsibilities, including Human Resources, Legal, Corporate Compliance, and Government Relations. He most recently served as Executive Vice President of the Company and President of its CVS/pharmacy retail operations, overseeing a portfolio of more than 7,000 CVS/pharmacy locations with net revenues of over $55 billion. The Company is initiating a search for Mr. Merlo's successor as President of the CVS/pharmacy retail operations, considering both internal and external candidates. Mr. Merlo will continue to hold this responsibility until a successor is chosen.
The Company also said today that to facilitate the transition it has formed an Office of the Chairman including Mr. Ryan, Mr. Merlo and Per Lofberg, President of Caremark Pharmacy Services, the Company's pharmacy benefit management (PBM) business. Mr. Lofberg, a 30-year veteran of the PBM industry and former Chairman of Merck-Medco Managed Care LLC (which became Medco Health Solutions), joined CVS Caremark in January 2010 to strengthen the PBM business, expand its market position and further develop the Company's unique integrated healthcare model.
"I felt this was the right time to move forward with our transition plan," Mr. Ryan, 58, said. "In my 36 years with the Company, including 16 years as President, I have never felt better about our position than I do now. We have tremendous assets, an incredibly talented management team and a strategy that is resonating in the marketplace. I made my decision knowing that CVS Caremark is in an excellent position and that we have the right team in place to build on our success.
"The plan we are announcing today will provide for a smooth, seamless transition in the leadership of CVS Caremark," said Mr. Ryan. "Larry Merlo is a high-energy, customer-focused leader who has delivered outstanding results in every position he has held. He has worked alongside me for the past 20 years and has been instrumental in developing our vision for CVS Caremark as an integrated health care company. With his experience and proven track record, Larry is the ideal executive to lead our business forward. Moreover, in Larry and Per, we have two of the most talented and knowledgeable managers in the industry. With their complementary backgrounds, CVS Caremark is in excellent hands."
Terry Murray, Lead Director of CVS Caremark, said, "Tom's accomplishments at CVS Caremark have been nothing short of spectacular. Under his leadership, CVS has evolved from a regional drug store chain with revenues of $5 billion in 1994 to the nation's largest pharmacy health care provider with revenues approaching $100 billion. We thank Tom for all he has done over the past 36 years and look forward to his continued leadership during the transition period ahead."
Mr. Merlo added, "This is an exciting time for CVS Caremark as our integrated healthcare model gains further traction and we take full advantage of the opportunities to build on our unique market position. In my new role, I look forward to continuing our positive momentum and to further enhancing the long-term value of the Company. Tom has inspired our organization to achieve great things, and we look forward to building on his legacy."
Mr. Lofberg commented, "Larry has been a terrific partner as we've worked together this year, and I look forward to our further collaboration as we continue to develop our integrated health care offering and build on the success we have already achieved."
The Company will hold its Annual Meeting of Shareholders today. Mr. Ryan's Company Update will be webcast for interested parties and accessible on the Company's website at http://info.cvscaremark.com/investors, beginning at approximately 9:15 am (ET).
About the Company:
CVS Caremark is the largest pharmacy health care provider in the United States. Through our integrated offerings across the entire spectrum of pharmacy care, we are uniquely positioned to provide greater access to engage plan members in behaviors that improve their health, and to lower overall health care costs for health plans, plan sponsors and their members. CVS Caremark is a market leader in mail order pharmacy, retail pharmacy, specialty pharmacy, and retail clinics, and is a leading provider of Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans. As one of the country's largest pharmacy benefits managers (PBMs), we provide access to a network of more than 64,000 pharmacies, including over 7,000 CVS/pharmacy stores that provide unparalleled service and capabilities. Our clinical expertise includes one of the industry's most comprehensive disease management programs. General information about CVS Caremark is available through the Company's website at http://info.cvscaremark.com.
Forward-looking statements:
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For these statements, the Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company strongly recommends that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties outlined under the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and under the heading "Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2010.


