FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20101103073029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 3, 2010, CVS Caremark Corporation (the "Corporation") issued a press release announcing its earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2010. Attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1, is a copy of the Corporation's related press release dated November 3, 2010.
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed. Accordingly, the information in Item 9.01 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Corporation under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Third Quarter Year-Over-Year Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
Year-to-date Highlights:
 
 
Full-year Adjusted EPS Guidance Range Narrowed to $2.68- $2.70, reflecting solid year-to-date performance and the inclusion of costs related to the PBM streamlining initiative; Full-year GAAP EPS Guidance Range Narrowed to $2.49 - $2.51.
WOONSOCKET, RHODE ISLAND, November 3, 2010 - CVS Caremark Corporation (NYSE: CVS), today announced revenues, operating profit, and net income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010.
Revenues
Net revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2010, decreased $767 million, or 3.1%, to $23.9 billion, down from $24.6 billion in the prior year period.
Pharmacy Services segment revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2010, decreased 8.5%, to $11.9 billion, as compared to the prior year period. Adjusting the growth rate for the impact of new generics, net revenues would have decreased 1.6% in the Pharmacy Services segment. The decrease in net revenues was primarily due to the previously announced termination of a few large client contracts effective January 1, 2010 and the decrease of covered lives under our Medicare Part D program resulting from the 2010 Medicare Part D competitive bidding process. This was partially offset by new client starts effective January 1, 2010.
Retail Pharmacy segment revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2010, increased 4.1%, to $14.2 billion and total same store sales increased 2.5% over the prior year period. Pharmacy same store sales increased 3.0% and reflect a positive impact from Maintenance Choice of approximately 240 basis points on a net basis (i.e., a positive impact of approximately 310 basis points on a gross basis, net of approximately 70 basis points from the conversion of 30-day prescriptions at retail to 90-day prescriptions under the Maintenance Choice program). Pharmacy same store sales were negatively impacted by approximately 280 basis points due to recent generic introductions. Front store same store sales increased 1.4% in the three months ended September 30, 2010.
 
The generic dispensing rate increased approximately 370 basis points to 72.0% in our Pharmacy Services segment and 340 basis points to 73.5% in our Retail Pharmacy segment, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2009.
Income from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark
Income from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark for the three months ended September 30, 2010 decreased $203 million, or 19.8%, to $820 million, compared to $1.0 billion in the prior year period. During the three months ended September 30, 2009, the Company recorded approximately $156 million ($0.11 per diluted share) of previously unrecognized tax benefits, which were related to the expiration of various statutes of limitation and settlements with tax authorities. Excluding the impact of the recognition of these tax benefits in the three months ended September 30, 2009, income from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark would have decreased $47 million, or 5.4%.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark, which excludes $108 million of intangible asset amortization related to acquisition activity, for the three months ended September 30, 2010, were $0.65, compared to $0.76 (including the $0.11 per diluted share income tax benefit) in the prior year period. GAAP earnings per diluted share from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark for the three months ended September 30, 2010 were $0.60, compared to $0.71 (including the $0.11 per diluted share income tax benefit) in the prior year period.
Income from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 decreased $241 million, or 9.1%, to $2.4 billion, compared to $2.7 billion in the prior year period. Excluding the impact of the $156 million tax benefit, income from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark would have decreased $85 million, or 3.4%.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark, which excludes $319 million of intangible asset amortization related to acquisition activity, for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, were $1.89, compared to $1.96 (including the $0.11 per diluted share income tax benefit) in the prior year period. GAAP earnings per diluted share from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 were $1.75, compared to $1.82 (including the $0.11 per diluted share income tax benefit) in the prior year period.
Tom Ryan, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "I am pleased with our third quarter results, which were at the higher end of our expectations. Our retail business delivered industry-leading same store sales growth while solid gross margins and expense control led to significantly improved operating margins. Our PBM offerings continued to gain traction with clients as evidenced by the year-to-date results of the 2011 selling season. We have begun to make important investments in the PBM streamlining initiative, which will lead to improved results and higher returns in the coming years."
2010 Guidance Range Narrowed
David Denton, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, stated "In light of our solid performance year to date and expectations for the remainder of the year that include some one-time costs relating to the PBM streamlining initiative, we are narrowing our guidance for adjusted earnings per share for 2010 to a range of $2.68 to $2.70 from a range of $2.68 to $2.73." Mr. Denton continued, "In addition, we are reiterating our guidance for free cash flow this year of approximately $2.5 billion. We expect to generate significantly more free cash on an annual basis for the next five years, and we intend to exercise disciplined capital allocation practices to achieve the highest possible return for our shareholders."
 
Real estate program
During the three months ended September 30, 2010, the Company opened 49 new retail drugstores, and closed six retail drugstores, one specialty pharmacy store and one mail order pharmacy. In addition, the Company relocated 18 retail drugstores. As of September 30, 2010, the Company operated 7,152 retail drugstores, 44 specialty pharmacy stores, 18 specialty mail order pharmacies and five mail order pharmacies in 44 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.
Teleconference and webcast
The Company will be holding a conference call today for the investment community at 8:30 am (ET) to discuss its quarterly results. An audio webcast of the conference call will be broadcast simultaneously for all interested parties through the Investor Relations section of the CVS Caremark website at http://info.cvscaremark.com. This webcast will be archived and available on the website for a one-month period following the conference call.
About the Company
CVS Caremark is the largest pharmacy health care provider in the United States. Through our integrated offerings across the entire spectrum of pharmacy care, we are uniquely positioned to provide greater access to engage plan members in behaviors that improve their health, and to lower overall health care costs for health plans, plan sponsors and their members. CVS Caremark is a market leader in mail order pharmacy, retail pharmacy, specialty pharmacy, and retail clinics, and is a leading provider of Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans. As one of the country's largest pharmacy benefits managers (PBMs), we provide access to a network of more than 65,000 pharmacies, including our more than 7,100 CVS/pharmacy stores that provide unparalleled service and capabilities. Our clinical expertise includes one of the industry's most comprehensive disease management programs. General information about CVS Caremark is available through the Company's website at http://info.cvscaremark.com.
Forward-looking statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For these statements, the Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company strongly recommends that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties outlined under the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and under the section entitled "Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" in our most recently filed Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For internal comparisons, management finds it useful to assess year-to-year performance by adjusting diluted earnings per share for amortization, which primarily relates to acquisition activities.
The Company defines adjusted earnings per share as income before income tax provision plus amortization, less adjusted income tax provision, plus net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest divided by the weighted average diluted common shares outstanding.
The following is a reconciliation of income before income tax provision to adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark:
 
 
 
The following reconciliation of estimated income before income tax provision to estimated adjusted earnings per share contains forward-looking information that is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. The Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company strongly recommends that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties outlined under the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. For internal comparisons, management finds it useful to assess year-to-year performance by adjusting diluted earnings per share for amortization, which primarily relates to acquisition activities.
 
 
The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less net additions to property and equipment (i.e., additions to property and equipment plus proceeds from sale-leaseback transactions).
The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow:
 
 
The Company evaluates its Pharmacy Services and Retail Pharmacy segment performance based on net revenue, gross profit and operating profit before the effect of nonrecurring charges and gains and certain intersegment activities. The Company evaluates the performance of its Corporate segment based on operating expenses before the effect of nonrecurring charges and gains and certain intersegment activities. The following is a reconciliation of the Company's segments to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements:
 
 
 
Pharmacy Services Segment
The following table summarizes the Pharmacy Services segment's performance for the respective periods:
 
 
 
The Company defines EBITDA as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We define EBITDA per adjusted claim as EBITDA divided by adjusted pharmacy claims. Adjusted pharmacy claims normalize the claims volume statistic for the difference in average days' supply for mail and retail claims. Adjusted pharmacy claims are calculated by multiplying 90-day claims (the majority of total mail claims) by 3 and adding the 30-day claims. EBITDA can be reconciled to operating profit, which we believe to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The following is a reconciliation of operating profit to EBITDA for the Pharmacy Services segment:
 
 
Retail Pharmacy Segment
The following table summarizes the Retail Pharmacy segment's performance for the respective periods:
 
 


