FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20110822194508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 3.03. Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders
On August 22, 2011, CVS Caremark Corporation (the Company) terminated the replacement capital covenant, which was entered into on May 25, 2007 for the benefit of the holders of the Companys 6.125% Senior Notes due August 15, 2016. The replacement capital covenant was described in, and a copy of the replacement capital covenant was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to, the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 25, 2007. Prior to its termination, the replacement capital covenant prohibited the Company from repaying, redeeming or repurchasing its 6.302% Enhanced Capital Advantaged Preferred Securities due 2062 (the ECAPS) before June 1, 2047 unless a specified portion of the funds used to repay, redeem or repurchase the ECAPS were obtained by the Company through the sale of common stock or certain other equity or equity-like securities. A copy of the Termination evidencing the termination of the replacement capital covenant is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1.
Item 8.01.  Other Events
On August 22, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the expiration of its consent solicitation relating to its 6.125% Senior Notes due August 15, 2016.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
TERMINATION OF THE REPLACEMENT CAPITAL COVENANT, dated as of August 22, 2011 (this Termination), by CVS Caremark Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the Company).
 
WHEREAS, on May 25, 2007, the Company granted a Replacement Capital Covenant (the Covenant) in favor of certain holders of the Companys Covered Debt (as defined in the Covenant), which at all times during the effectiveness of the Covenant have been the holders of the Companys 6.125% Senior Notes due August 15, 2016 (the Notes);
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 4(a) of the Covenant, the Covenant may be terminated if the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes consent or agree in writing to the termination of the Covenant and the obligations of the Company thereunder;
 
WHEREAS, on August 9, 2011, the Company commenced a solicitation of consents (Consent Solicitation) from the holders of the Notes of record at 5:00 p.m. New York City time on August 8, 2011 to the proposed termination of the Covenant; and
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Consent Solicitation, as of 5:00 p.m. New York City time on August 22, 2011, the expiration date for the Consent Solicitation, holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes validly delivered, and did not validly revoke, their consent to the termination of the Covenant.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Company hereby terminates the Covenant and the obligations of the Company thereunder, which shall be of no further force or effect.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Termination to be executed by its duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
WOONSOCKET, R.I., August 22, 2011  CVS Caremark Corporation (NYSE:CVS) announced today the results of its previously announced solicitation of consents (the Consent Solicitation) from the registered holders as of 5:00 p.m., New York City time on August 8, 2011 (the Record Date) of its 6.125% Senior Notes due August 15, 2016 (the Notes) to terminate the replacement capital covenant, which was entered into on May 25, 2007, for the benefit of the holders of the Notes in connection with the issuance of its 6.302% Enhanced Capital Advantaged Preferred Securities due 2062 (the ECAPS).  Under the replacement capital covenant, CVS Caremark was prohibited from repurchasing, redeeming or repaying its ECAPS on or before June 1, 2047 unless a specified portion of the funds used to repay, redeem or repurchase the ECAPS were obtained by CVS Caremark through the sale of common stock or certain other equity or equity-like securities.
The Consent Solicitation expired at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on August 22, 2011.  The termination of the replacement capital covenant required the consent of the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes (the Requisite Consents).  Based on the final tabulation provided by the Information and Tabulation Agent for the Consent Solicitation, D.F. King & Co., Inc., the holders of approximately 619,838,000 Notes, or approximately 88.55% of the aggregate principal amount outstanding, delivered duly executed consents prior to the expiration of the Consent Solicitation.
CVS Caremark has executed a termination of the replacement capital covenant.  CVS Caremark will make a cash payment to each holder of the Notes of $15.00 per $1,000 in principal amount of the Notes as to which a duly executed consent was delivered and not revoked on or prior to the expiration of the Consent Solicitation.
 
For a complete statement of the terms and conditions of the Consent Solicitation, holders of the Notes should refer to the Consent Solicitation Statement and the consent form dated August 9, 2011.  Copies of the Consent Solicitation Statement and the consent form may be obtained from D.F. King & Co., Inc. at (800) 949-2583 (toll-free).
 
Barclays Capital Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. acted as the Solicitation Agents for the Consent Solicitation.
 
About the Company:
 
CVS Caremark is the largest pharmacy health care provider in the United States with integrated offerings across the entire spectrum of pharmacy care. We are uniquely positioned to engage plan members in behaviors that improve their health and to lower overall health care costs for health plans, plan sponsors and their members. CVS Caremark is a market leader in mail order pharmacy,
 
 
 
 
 
retail pharmacy, specialty pharmacy, and retail clinics, and is a leading provider of Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans. As one of the country's largest pharmacy benefits managers (PBMs), we provide access to a network of approximately 65,000 pharmacies, including approximately 7,300 CVS/pharmacy stores that provide unparalleled service and capabilities. Our clinical offerings include our signature Pharmacy Advisor program as well as innovative generic step therapy and genetic benefit management programs that promote more cost effective and healthier behaviors and improve health care outcomes. General information about CVS Caremark is available through the Company's website at http://info.cvscaremark.com.
Forward-looking Statements:
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For these statements, the Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company strongly recommends that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties outlined under the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended and under the section entitled Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements in our most recently filed Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


