FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20110824150642.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On August 24, 2011, CVS Caremark Corporation issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors had approved a share repurchase program for up to $4.0 billion of its outstanding common stock. A copy of the press release announcing the approval of the share repurchase program is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
WOONSOCKET, RHODE ISLAND, August 24, 2011 - CVS Caremark Corporation (NYSE: CVS) today announced that its board of directors has approved a new share repurchase program for up to $4.0 billion of the company's outstanding common stock. The share repurchase authorization, which is effective immediately, permits the company to effect the repurchases from time to time through a combination of open market repurchases, privately negotiated transactions, accelerated share repurchase transactions, and/or other derivative transactions.
The Company also stated that it intends to complete its $2 billion share repurchase program, authorized in June 2010, this year as expected. In addition, the Company intends to repurchase approximately $1 billion under the new authorization by the end of this year.
Dave Denton, executive vice president and chief financial officer of CVS Caremark, stated, "We're very pleased with the board's decision. We believe it reflects their continued confidence in the future growth of CVS Caremark as well as an ongoing commitment to increase shareholder value."
Denton continued, "Over the next several years, we expect to generate significantly more free cash flow than what we've generated in the past several years. We have a disciplined approach to capital allocation that encompasses investing in internal projects that meet our return hurdles and utilizing our remaining free cash flow to increase shareholder value through dividends and share repurchases. We intend to continue to review our dividend annually and to do share repurchases that are value enhancing."
There can be no assurance as to the amount, timing or prices of repurchases. The specific timing and amount of repurchases will vary based on market conditions and other factors. The share repurchase program may be modified, extended or terminated by the board of directors at any time.
About the Company
CVS Caremark is the largest pharmacy health care provider in the United States with integrated offerings across the entire spectrum of pharmacy care. We are uniquely positioned to engage plan members in behaviors that improve their health and to lower overall health care costs for health plans, plan sponsors and their members. CVS Caremark is a market leader in mail order pharmacy, retail pharmacy, specialty pharmacy, and retail clinics, and is a leading provider of Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans. As one of the country's largest pharmacy benefits managers (PBMs), we provide access to a network of approximately 65,000 pharmacies, including more than 7,200 CVS/pharmacy stores that provide unparalleled service and capabilities. Our clinical offerings include our signature Pharmacy Advisor program as well as innovative generic step therapy and genetic benefit management programs that promote more cost effective and healthier behaviors and improve health care outcomes. General information about CVS Caremark is available through the Company's website at http://info.cvscaremark.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For these statements, the Company claims the protection of the safe harbor
for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company strongly recommends that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties outlined under the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and under the section entitled "Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" in our most recently filed Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.


