FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20110310160613.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 9, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of CVS Caremark Corporation (the "Corporation") elected Tony L. White to serve on the Board.
(d):
Mr. White, age 64, is the former Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Applied Biosystems, Inc. (formerly Applera Corporation), a developer, manufacturer and marketer of life science systems and genomic information products, having served in those positions from September 1995 until his retirement in November 2008. Mr. White is currently a director of Ingersoll-Rand plc, a diversified industrial company, and C.R. Bard, Inc., a company that designs, manufacturers, packages, distributes and sells medical, surgical, diagnostic and patient care devices. The Board believes that Mr. White's wealth of management experience in the life sciences and health care industries, including over 13 years as Chairman and CEO of an advanced-technology life sciences company and 26 years in various management positions at Baxter International, Inc., a provider of medical products and services, makes him well qualified to serve as a director of CVS Caremark.
Mr. White was determined by the Corporation's Board to be "independent" under the Corporate Governance Rules of the New York Stock Exchange and under the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines, and was named to the Board's Management Planning and Development Committee.
Mr. White will receive compensation as a director in accordance with the Company's director compensation practices described in the Company's Annual Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 29, 2010.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


