FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20111103071300.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02       Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 3, 2011, CVS Caremark Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2011. Attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1, is a copy of the Company's related press release dated November 3, 2011.
 
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed. Accordingly, the information in Item 9.01 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01
                    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                           
Exhibits
 
99.1
     
Press Release, dated November 3, 2011, of CVS Caremark Corporation.
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Third Quarter Year-Over-Year Highlights:
 
                 
Net revenues increased 12.5% to a record $26.7 billion
                 
Pharmacy Services segment revenues increased 25.8%
                 
Retail Pharmacy segment revenues increased 3.8%, with same stores sales up 2.3%
                 
Adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $0.70
                 
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.65
 
Year-to-Date Highlights:
 
                 
Generated free cash flow of $3.9 billion
                 
Generated cash flow from operations of $5.0 billion
 
Guidance:
 
                 
Company narrows full-year 2011 EPS guidance range to higher end of previous range
                 
Full-year adjusted EPS from continuing operations revised to $2.77 - $2.81
                 
Full-year GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations revised to $2.57 - $2.61
                 
Company reconfirms full-year free cash flow in the range of $4.0 billion - $4.2 billion
                 
Company reconfirms full-year cash flow from operations in the range of $5.5 billion - $5.6 billion
 
WOONSOCKET, RHODE ISLAND, November 3, 2011 - CVS Caremark Corporation (NYSE: CVS), today announced revenues, operating profit, and net income for the three months ended September 30, 2011.
 
Revenues
 
Net revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2011 increased $3.0 billion to $26.7 billion, up from $23.7 billion during the three months ended September 30, 2010.
 
Revenues in the Pharmacy Services segment increased 25.8% to $14.8 billion in the three months ended September 30, 2011. This increase was primarily associated with the addition of a previously-announced, long-term contract with Aetna, Inc., as well as new activity resulting from our acquisition of the Medicare prescription drug business of Universal American Corp. ("UAM Medicare Part D Business") in the second quarter of 2011. Pharmacy network claims processed during the three months ended September 30, 2011 increased 39.8% to 179.2 million, compared to 128.2 million in the prior year period. The increase in pharmacy network claims was primarily due to the Company's recent acquisition of the UAM Medicare Part D Business, the addition of the Aetna contract, and an increase in covered lives in our existing Medicare Part D Business. Mail choice claims processed during the three months ended September 30, 2011 increased approximately 8.0% to 17.5 million
compared to 16.2 million in the prior year period. The increase in the mail choice claim volume was also driven by the addition of the Aetna contract.
 
Revenues in the Retail Pharmacy segment increased 3.8% to $14.7 billion in the three months ended September 30, 2011. Same store sales increased 2.3% over the prior year period. Pharmacy same store sales rose 2.4% and include a positive impact from Maintenance Choice of approximately 140 basis points on a net basis (i.e., a positive impact of approximately 170 basis points on a gross basis, net of approximately 30 basis points from the conversion of 30-day prescriptions at retail to 90-day prescriptions under the Maintenance Choice program). Pharmacy same store sales were negatively impacted by approximately 200 basis points due to recent generic introductions. Front store same store sales increased 2.0% in the three months ended September 30, 2011.
 
Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to CVS Caremark
 
Income from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark for the three months ended September 30, 2011, increased $52 million to $868 million, compared with $816 million during the three months ended September 30, 2010. The increase in income from continuing operations was primarily driven by improved operating profit in the Retail Pharmacy segment. The effective income tax rate during the quarter was 39.3% compared to 39.2% in the prior year period. Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark ("Adjusted EPS") for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010 was $0.70 and $0.64, respectively. Adjusted EPS excludes $118 million and $108 million of intangible asset amortization related to acquisition activity in the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. GAAP earnings per diluted share from continuing operations attributable to CVS Caremark for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010 was $0.65 and $0.60, respectively.
 
Larry Merlo, President and Chief Executive Officer, stated, "I'm very pleased with our third quarter results, which were two cents above the high end of our guidance range. This outperformance was primarily driven by better-than-expected performance in our PBM as well as accretion from our recently-executed $1 billion accelerated share repurchase. Between dividends and share repurchases, we have returned over $3 billion to our shareholders year to date and enhancing shareholder returns remains a high priority for us."
 
Mr. Merlo continued, "Our retail drugstore business continues to grow and gain share while our PBM continues to demonstrate success in the selling season, with strong client retention and significant new business. I fully expect the Company to deliver substantial free cash flow for the foreseeable future, which should enable us to continue to return significant value to our shareholders.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
On September 26, 2011, the Company entered into an agreement with AmerisourceBergen Corporation ("ABC") to sell its TheraCom, L.L.C. ("TheraCom") subsidiary for $250 million. On November 1, 2011, the Company completed the sale of TheraCom to ABC. TheraCom is a provider of commercialization support services to the biotech and pharmaceutical industry. The TheraCom business has historically been part of the Company's Pharmacy Services segment. The results of the TheraCom business are presented as discontinued operations and have been excluded from both continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented.
 
In connection with certain business dispositions completed between 1991 and 1997, the Company retained guarantees on store lease obligations for a number of former subsidiaries, including Linen n Things which filed for bankruptcy in 2008. The Company's income (loss) from discontinued operations includes lease-related costs which the Company believes it will likely be required to satisfy pursuant to its Linens n Things lease guarantees.
Real Estate Program
 
During the three months ended September 30, 2011, the Company opened 39 new retail drugstores and closed one retail drugstore. In addition, the Company relocated 14 retail drugstores. As of September 30, 2011, the Company operated 7,384 locations, included in which were 7,304 retail drugstores, 31 retail specialty pharmacy stores, 32 apothecary pharmacy stores, 13 specialty mail order pharmacies and four mail order pharmacies in 44 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.
 
Guidance
 
Taking into account the strong underlying results year to date as well as solid expectations for the remainder of the year, the Company narrowed its earnings per share guidance range for the full year 2011 to the higher end of the previous range. The revised guidance includes the accretive impact of the recently-executed accelerated share repurchase as well as the dilutive impact from the reclassification of the TheraCom business as discontinued operations for the full year. The Company now expects adjusted EPS from continuing operations to be in the range of $2.77 to $2.81 and GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $2.57 to $2.61, compared to its previous guidance range of $2.75 to $2.81, and $2.55 to $2.61, respectively. The Company also reconfirmed that it expects to generate cash flow from operations in the range of $5.5 billion to $5.6 billion and free cash flow in the range of $4.0 billion to $4.2 billion for the full year 2011.
 
Teleconference and Webcast
 
The Company will be holding a conference call today for the investment community at 8:30 am (EDT) to discuss its quarterly results. An audio webcast of the call will be broadcast simultaneously for all interested parties through the Investor Relations section of the CVS Caremark website at http://info.cvscaremark.com/investors. This webcast will be archived and available on the website for a one-year period following the conference call.
 
About the Company
 
CVS Caremark is the largest pharmacy health care provider in the United States with integrated offerings across the entire spectrum of pharmacy care. We are uniquely positioned to engage plan members in behaviors that improve their health and to lower overall health care costs for health plans, plan sponsors and their members. CVS Caremark is a market leader in mail order pharmacy, retail pharmacy, specialty pharmacy, and retail clinics, and is a leading provider of Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans. As one of the country's largest pharmacy benefits managers (PBMs), we provide access to a network of approximately 65,000 pharmacies, including more than 7,300 CVS/pharmacy stores that provide unparalleled service and capabilities. Our clinical offerings include our signature Pharmacy Advisor program as well as innovative generic step therapy and genetic benefit management programs that promote more cost effective and healthier behaviors and improve health care outcomes. General information about CVS Caremark is available through the Company's website at http://info.cvscaremark.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For these statements, the Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company strongly recommends that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties outlined under the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and under the section entitled "Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" in our most recently filed Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
 
 
 
 
For internal comparisons, management finds it useful to assess year-to-year performance by adjusting diluted earnings per share for amortization, which primarily relates to acquisition activities.
 
The Company defines adjusted earnings per share as income before income tax provision plus amortization, less adjusted income tax provision, plus net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest divided by the weighted average diluted common shares outstanding.
 
The following is a reconciliation of income before income tax provision to adjusted earnings per share:
 
 
(1)
             
The adjusted income tax provision is computed using the effective income tax rate from the condensed consolidated statement of income.
(2)
             
The adjusted results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 have been revised to reflect the results of TheraCom as discontinued operations.
The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less net additions to properties and equipment (i.e., additions to property and equipment plus proceeds from sale-leaseback transactions).
 
The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow:
 
The Company evaluates its Pharmacy Services and Retail Pharmacy segment performance based on net revenue, gross profit and operating profit before the effect of nonrecurring charges and gains and certain intersegment activities. The Company evaluates the performance of its Corporate segment based on operating expenses before the effect of nonrecurring charges and gains and certain intersegment activities. The following is a reconciliation of the Company's segments to the accompanying consolidated financial statements:
 
 
(1)
        
Net revenues of the Pharmacy Services segment include approximately $1.9 billion and $1.6 billion of retail co-payments for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively, as well as $6.0 billion and $5.0 billion of retail co-payments for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
(2)
        
Intersegment eliminations relate to two types of transactions: (i) Intersegment revenues that occur when Pharmacy Services segment customers use Retail Pharmacy segment stores to purchase covered products. When this occurs, both the Pharmacy Services and Retail Pharmacy segments record the revenue on a standalone basis, and (ii) Intersegment revenues, gross profit and operating profit that occur when Pharmacy Services segment customers, through the Company's intersegment activities (such as the Maintenance Choice program), elect to pick-up their maintenance prescriptions at Retail Pharmacy segment stores instead of receiving them through the mail. When this occurs, both the Pharmacy Services and Retail Pharmacy segments record the revenue, gross profit and operating profit on a standalone basis. As a result, both the Pharmacy Services and the Retail Pharmacy segments include the following results associated with this activity: net revenues of $657 million and $489 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $1.8 billion and $1.3 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively; gross profit and operating profit of $42 million and $39 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $117 million and $92 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
(3)
        
The results of the Pharmacy Services segment for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 have been revised to reflect the results of TheraCom as discontinued operations.
Pharmacy Services Segment
 
The following table summarizes the Pharmacy Services segment's performance for the respective periods:
 
 
(1)
        
Pharmacy network net revenues, claims processed and generic dispensing rates do not include Maintenance Choice, which are included within the mail choice category.
(2)
        
Mail choice is defined as claims filled at a Pharmacy Services' mail facility, which include specialty mail claims, as well as 90-day claims filled at retail under the Maintenance Choice program.
(3)
        
Pharmacy network is defined as claims filled at retail pharmacies, including our retail drugstores, but excluding Maintenance Choice activity.
(4)
        
The results of the Pharmacy Services segment for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 have been revised to reflect the results of TheraCom as discontinued operations.
The Company defines EBITDA as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We define EBITDA per adjusted claim as EBITDA divided by adjusted pharmacy claims. Adjusted pharmacy claims normalize the claims volume statistic for the difference in average days' supply for mail and retail claims. Adjusted pharmacy claims are calculated by multiplying 90-day claims (the majority of total mail claims) by 3 and adding the 30-day claims. EBITDA can be reconciled to operating profit, which we believe to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
The following is a reconciliation of operating profit to EBITDA for the Pharmacy Services segment:
 
 
(1)
        
The results of the Pharmacy Services segment for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 have been revised to reflect the results of TheraCom as discontinued operations.
Retail Pharmacy Segment
 
The following table summarizes the Retail Pharmacy segment's performance for the respective periods:
 
The following reconciliation of estimated income before income tax provision to estimated adjusted earnings per share contains forward-looking information that is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. The Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company strongly recommends that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties outlined under the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and under the section entitled "Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" in our most recently filed Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. For internal comparisons, management finds it useful to assess year-to-year performance by adjusting diluted earnings per share for amortization, which primarily relates to acquisition activities.
 
 
The following reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow contains forward-looking information that is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. The Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company strongly recommends that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties outlined under the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and under the section entitled "Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" in our most recently filed Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. For internal comparisons, management finds it useful to assess year-to-year cash flow performance by adjusting cash provided by operating activities, by capital expenditures and proceeds from sale-leaseback transactions.
 


