FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20110830170046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
As previously disclosed, on August 23, 2011, the Board of Directors of CVS Caremark Corporation (the "Corporation") approved a share repurchase program (the "2011 Repurchase Program") for up to $4.0 billion of its outstanding common stock. The authorization under the 2011 Repurchase Program, which took effect immediately, permits the Corporation to effect the repurchases from time to time through a combination of open market repurchases, privately negotiated transactions accelerated share repurchases and/or other derivative transactions. In addition, the Corporation intends to complete its $2.0 billion share repurchase program, authorized in June 2010, later this year.
Pursuant to the authorization under the 2011 Repurchase Program, on August 24, 2011, the Corporation entered into an accelerated share repurchase transaction with Barclays Bank PLC (the "seller"). Under the terms of the transaction, the Corporation purchases outstanding shares of common stock from the seller for $1.0 billion. The seller makes initial deliveries of shares to the Corporation shortly after execution of the transaction, and may deliver additional shares to the Corporation at or prior to maturity of the transaction. The total number of shares to be repurchased will be based generally on the average daily volume weighted average price of the stock during the term of the transaction, subject to a minimum and maximum number of shares. Under certain circumstances, the Corporation may be required to return to the seller a portion of the initial shares received or make an additional cash payment to the seller. The transaction is scheduled to extend for approximately four months, but it may conclude earlier at the seller's option, and may be terminated early upon the occurrence of certain events. The agreement for the accelerated share repurchase transaction is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
With respect to the remaining $3.0 billion of the 2011 Repurchase Program, there can be no assurance as to the amount, timing or prices of repurchases. The specific timing and amount of repurchases will vary based on market conditions and other factors. The 2011 Repurchase Program may be modified, extended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time.
From time to time, Barclays Bank PLC and/or its affiliates have directly and indirectly engaged, and may engage in the future, in investment and/or commercial banking transactions with the Corporation for which they have received, or may receive, customary compensation, fees and expense reimbursement.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the Transaction entered into between Barclays Bank PLC (""), through its agent Barclays Capital Inc. (the ""), and CVS Caremark Corporation ("yon the Trade Date specified belowthe"). This Confirmation constitutes a "" as referred to in the Agreement specified below. As used herein and in the Agreement, the term "" shall refer (i) prior to delivery of a Confirmation Pricing Supplement that complies with the requirements set forth in the Base Confirmation, to the Base Confirmation and (ii) following such delivery, to the Base Confirmation as supplemented by such Confirmation Pricing Supplement.
Base Confirmation
Barclays
Agent
Counterpart
")
(
"
Transaction
Confirmation
Confirmation
Barclays Bank PLC is not a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation ("SIPC").
Barclays is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the ""), as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Equity Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. For purposes of the Equity Definitions, the Transaction shall be deemed to be a Share Forward Transaction.
Equity Definitions
Each party is hereby advised, and each such party acknowledges, that the other party has engaged in, or refrained from engaging in, substantial financial transactions and has taken other material actions in reliance upon the parties' entry into the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates on the terms and conditions set forth below.
1. This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Barclays and Counterparty as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to, an agreement in the form of the ISDA 2002 Master Agreement (the "") as if Barclays and Counterparty had executed an agreement in such form (without any Schedule and with such other elections set forth in this Confirmation) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between provisions of the
Agreement
Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction. The parties hereby agree that no Transaction other than the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates shall be governed by the Agreement.
 
 
 
Each of Barclays and Counterparty represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the other party that:
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the representations and warranties in the Agreement and those contained elsewhere herein, Counterparty further represents, warrants and agrees that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Confirmation to the contrary requiring or allowing Barclays to purchase, sell, receive or deliver any Shares or other securities to or from Counterparty, Barclays may designate any of its affiliates to purchase, sell, receive or deliver such Shares or other securities and otherwise to perform Barclays' obligations in respect of the Transaction and any such designee may assume such obligations. Barclays shall be discharged of its obligations to Counterparty only to the extent of any such performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, following payment by Counterparty of the relevant Prepayment Amount, the Additional Payment and the Transaction Fee nothing in this Confirmation shall be interpreted as requiring Counterparty to deliver cash in respect of the settlement of the Transaction or in respect of any Payment Obligation owed by Counterparty (except in the case of an Event of Default in which Counterparty is the Defaulting Party or a Termination Event in which Counterparty is the Affected Party, other than an Event of Default or a Termination Event that resulted from an event or events outside Counterparty's control).
 
 
 
 
 
CVS Caremark Corporation
Bank Name: The Bank of New York Mellon
ABA: 021000018
SWIFT code: IRVTUS3N
Acct No.: 890-0321-113
Account for delivery of Shares to Counterparty:
To be provided by Counterparty to Barclays.
 
Bank: Barclays Bank plc NY
ABA#: 026 00 2574
BIC: BARCUS33
Acct: 50038524
Beneficiary: BARCGB33
Ref: Barclays Bank plc London Equity Derivatives
 
The Office of Counterparty for the Transaction is: Inapplicable, Counterparty is not a Multibranch Party.
The Office of Barclays for the Transaction is: Inapplicable, Barclays is not a Multibranch Party.
For purposes of this Confirmation:
 
CVS Caremark Corporation
One CVS Drive
Woonsocket, RI 02895
Attention: Carol DeNale
Telephone No.: 401-770-4407
Facsimile No.: 401-770-5768
 
Barclays Bank PLC
c/o Barclays Capital Inc.
745 Seventh Ave.
New York, NY 10019
Attn: Paul Robinson
Telephone: (+1) 212-526-0111
Facsimile: (+1) 917-522-0458
This Base Confirmation may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparty hereby agrees to check this Base Confirmation and to confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of the Transaction by signing in the space provided below and returning to Barclays a facsimile of the fully-executed Base Confirmation to Barclays at (+1) 917-522-0458. Originals shall be provided for your execution upon your request.
Very truly yours,
BARCLAYS BANK PLC,
BY BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC.,
acting solely as its Agent in connection with the Transaction
 
Accepted and confirmed as of the Trade Date:
 


