FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20110125163959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
: On January 24, 2011, CVS Caremark Corporation ("CVS Caremark" or the "Company") announced that, in furtherance of its previously announced CEO succession plan, Thomas M. Ryan is transitioning out of his position as the Company's Chief Executive Officer effective March 1, 2011. Larry J. Merlo, currently President and Chief Operating Officer, will become President and Chief Executive Officer of CVS Caremark on that date. Mr. Ryan is expected to remain non-executive Chairman of the CVS Caremark Board of Directors (the "Board") until the Company's May 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, at which time he will retire from the Board and current Board member David W. Dorman will be named non-executive Chairman of the Board. CVS Caremark issued a press release on January 24, 2011 announcing Mr. Ryan's impending retirement and Mr. Merlo's promotion. The full text of the release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
(b), (c) and (e)
Mr. Merlo's Employment Agreement with CVS Caremark will remain unchanged, though at the time of his promotion to Chief Executive Officer his compensation will be increased to reflect his additional responsibilities. Effective March 1, 2011, Mr. Merlo's annual salary will be increased to $1,250,000 and his 2011 target annual cash incentive award will be set at 175% of his salary. His annual equity target for 2011 will be increased to $4,000,000, and will consist of 50% stock options and 50% restricted stock units. Mr. Merlo will also continue to participate in the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP") which has a three-year award cycle. Awards under the LTIP are payable 50% in cash and 50% in stock with a two-year no-sale-or-transfer restriction, and Mr. Merlo's LTIP award at target will be set at $4,500,000 for the 2011-2013 cycle.
Mr. Ryan will remain on as a non-executive employee of CVS Caremark from March 1, 2011 until his retirement as of the date of CVS Caremark's May 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and his only compensation for this interim period will be his current base salary.
On January 20, 2011, the Board elected Anne M. Finucane to serve on the Board.
(d):
Ms. Finucane is Global Strategy and Marketing Officer at Bank of America Corporation ("Bank of America"), one of the world's largest financial institutions. During her fifteen years as a senior leader at Bank of America and its legacy firms, Ms. Finucane has served as senior advisor to four chief executive officers and the Board of Directors, with a focus on corporate strategy and public policy creation and implementation. Ms. Finucane oversees public policy, government affairs, consumer policy and corporate social responsibility, leading the company's engagement and positioning on global and domestic policies, issues, current and proposed legislation and other public affairs affecting Bank of America and the financial services industry. Ms. Finucane also oversees the company's 10-year, $2 billion philanthropic giving goal through the Bank of America Charitable Foundation, one of the largest corporate philanthropic organizations in the world; the company's 10-year, $20 billion environmental initiative to address global climate change, as founder and chair of Bank of America's Environmental Council; arts and culture investment and programs; and global volunteerism.
Ms. Finucane was determined by the Company's Board to be "independent" under the Corporate Governance Rules of the New York Stock Exchange and under the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, and was named to the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Item 9. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements
(d) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
[CVS Caremark Logo]
January 24, 2011  CVS Caremark Corporation (NYSE:CVS) today announced the next stage of its transition plan outlined during its Annual Shareholders meeting last year. After the successful transition of day-to-day responsibilities for the company's retail operations earlier this month, the company has announced that Larry Merlo, President and Chief Operating Officer of CVS Caremark, will assume the role of CEO effective March 1, 2011. Thomas M. Ryan will remain Non-Executive Chairman until his retirement at the company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders in May of 2011.
WOONSOCKET, RI,
"Since we announced our transition plan in May of last year Larry and I have worked hard to successfully transition roles and responsibilities, and Larry is ready to be CEO," said Ryan. "After 37 years with our company and 16 years as President, I am more confident than ever that our assets along with our innovative products and services are lowering healthcare costs and improving outcomes. Our success took years of hard work, commitment and dedication to our mission from the more than 200,000 CVS Caremark colleagues we have across the company. I am so proud of all the work we have accomplished together, and remain confident that this success will continue well into the future under Larry's leadership."
Terry Murray, Lead Director of CVS Caremark, commented, "On behalf of the company's Board of Directors, I would like to thank Tom for all he has done for CVS Caremark. Under his leadership, CVS has evolved from a regional drug store chain with revenues of $5 billion in 1994 to the nation's largest pharmacy health care provider with revenues approaching $100 billion. And along the way Tom has built a culture focused on innovation, customer service and flawless execution. It is the culture Tom fostered over his 37-year tenure that differentiates CVS Caremark in the marketplace today."
Merlo added, "I am grateful for the opportunity to lead this company. As the nation's premier integrated pharmacy health care provider we have a tremendous opportunity to make a difference in the lives of those we serve. I look forward to continuing our positive momentum and to further enhancing the long-term value of our company. I've worked directly with Tom for the past twenty years and I want to thank him for his mentoring and leadership and am confident we will continue to build on his legacy."
The company also announced that upon Ryan's retirement as Chairman in May 2011, its intention is to elect David Dorman as the next Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of CVS Caremark at the 2011 Annual Meeting. Dorman has been on the CVS Caremark Board of Directors since 2006. Since May 2008, he has served as the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Motorola, Inc. (which was recently renamed Motorola Solutions, Inc. in connection with the separation of Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc.). Mr. Dorman will transition to the position of Lead Director of Motorola Solutions, Inc. in May 2011. He was previously Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AT&T Corporation from November 2002 to November 2005.
About CVS Caremark
CVS Caremark is the largest pharmacy health care provider in the United States. Through our integrated offerings across the entire spectrum of pharmacy care, we are uniquely positioned to provide greater access, to engage plan members in behaviors that improve their health and to lower overall health care costs for health plans, plan sponsors and their members. CVS Caremark is a market leader in mail order pharmacy, retail pharmacy, specialty pharmacy, and retail clinics, and is a leading provider of Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans. As one of the country's largest pharmacy benefits managers (PBMs), we provide access to a network of more than 64,000 pharmacies, including approximately 7,100 CVS/pharmacy stores that provide unparalleled service and capabilities. Our clinical expertise includes one of the industry's most comprehensive disease management programs. General information about CVS Caremark is available through the Company's Web site at .
http://info.cvscaremark.com


