FILE:CVS/CVS-8K-20120403165029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) (e) On March 30, 2012, CVS Caremark Corporation (the "Registrant") announced that it had entered into an amendment (the "Amendment") to its Employment Agreement with Per G.H. Lofberg, Executive Vice President of the Registrant and President of CVS Caremark Pharmacy Services. Pursuant to the Amendment, Mr. Lofberg's term of employment with the Registrant has been extended to December 31, 2013. In connection with said extension, Mr. Lofberg will be granted a stock option award on April 2, 2012 in the amount of $3,000,000. That award will vest on December 31, 2013 if he completes his employment term, and will be exercisable for two years thereafter, contingent upon Mr. Lofberg's compliance with certain restrictive covenants. Mr. Lofberg's salary, target bonus and participation in the PBM Long-Term Incentive Plan remain unchanged under the Amendment. A copy of the Amendment is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Further, on September 1, 2012, Mr. Lofberg will cease serving as President of CVS Caremark Pharmacy Services, and Mr. Jonathan C. Roberts, currently Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of CVS Caremark Pharmacy Services, will become President of CVS Caremark Pharmacy Services. Mr. Roberts will report to Mr. Lofberg. Mr. Lofberg will remain Executive Vice President of the Registrant and will continue to report directly to Larry J. Merlo, the Registrant's President and Chief Executive Officer. It is anticipated that Mr. Lofberg will retire at the end of 2013.
A copy of the press release announcing the above is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements
(d) Exhibits
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Reference is made to the Employment Agreement between CVS Caremark Corporation (the "Company") and Per G.H. Lofberg, dated December 16, 2009 (the "Employment Agreement"). Pursuant to Section 7(f) of the Employment Agreement, the Company and the Executive hereby amend the Employment Agreement as follows, effective immediately:
 
 
Until August 31, 2012, Executive shall have and perform such duties, responsibilities, and authorities as are specified by the Company from time to time and as are consistent with his position as Executive Vice President, CVS Caremark and President, Pharmacy Benefit Services. As of September 1, 2012, Executive shall have and perform such duties, responsibilities, and authorities as are specified by the Company from time to time and as are consistent with his position as Executive Vice President, CVS Caremark. In each of the foregoing roles, Executive shall report to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d)
Termination by the Company Without Cause or by Executive for Good Reason after December 31, 2012.
(i) . If Executive's employment is terminated after December 31, 2012 by the Company under circumstances that constitute a "Termination Without Cause" or by the Executive under circumstances that constitute a "Termination by Executive for Good Reason," each as defined in Section 4(c), then Executive shall be entitled to and his sole remedies under this Agreement shall be:
Severance
(A) Base Salary earned through the Separation Date and benefits due to Executive upon termination in accordance with the plans and policies of the Company;
(B) severance pay in the form of Executive's Base Salary, paid on a monthly basis at the monthly rate in effect on the Separation Date, for the period of time from the date of the termination of employment until December 31, 2013 (the "2013 Severance Period");
(C) pro rata MIP award for performance year 2013, determined in accordance with the MIP and paid at such time as awards are paid to current employees generally;
(D) treatment of existing stock option, restricted stock unit, LTIP and PEP awards in accordance with the ICP and the award agreements and plans, including any provisions relating to continued vesting during the 2013 Severance Period;
(E) continued participation in all medical, dental and vision insurance plans pursuant to COBRA (subject to Executive's continued contribution at the same contribution rate as current employees receiving like coverage) until the earlier of: (A) the end of the 2013 Severance Period; or (B) the date the Executive receives coverage under the plans and programs of a subsequent employer; in the event that Executive is entitled to such participation beyond the time that Executive may participate in the plans pursuant to COBRA, the Company shall pay to Executive a monthly cash amount equal, on an after-tax basis, to the amount that the Company contributed on a monthly basis to continue Executive's coverage under COBRA.
provided that
(iv) . Executive's eligibility for and receipt of the payments and benefits set forth in this Section 4(d) is contingent on (A) Executive's execution of the severance agreement provided by the Company (which will include a full release of claims against the Company and reaffirmation of the Executive Covenants set forth in Section 5) within 30 days after the Separation Date and (B) Executive's compliance with the Executive Covenants set forth in Section 5. "Notwithstanding the foregoing, if such 30 day period commences in one taxable year and extends into Executive's next taxable year, no payments provided in this Section 4(d) shall commence prior to the second taxable year."
Release and Compliance With Executive Covenants
(v) Upon termination of the Executive's employment after December 31, 2012 but not later than December 31, 2013, Executive shall not be entitled to any severance payments or severance benefits from the Company or any payments by the Company on account of any claim by Executive of wrongful termination, including claims under any federal, state or local human and civil rights or labor laws, other than the payments and benefits provided in this Section 4(d).
Exclusivity of Severance Payments.
(vi) . Executive shall not be entitled to the benefits and payments referred to in Section 4(d) above for any termination of employment that occurs after December 31, 2013.
Sunset of Severance Entitlement
 
(a) . During Executive's employment by the Company or one of its subsidiaries and during the Non-Competition Period following the termination of Executive's employment for any reason, Executive will not, directly or indirectly, engage in Competition or provide Consulting or Audit Services within the Restricted Area.
Non-Competition
(i) Engaging in "Competition" shall mean providing services to a Competitor of the Company (whether as an employee, independent contractor, consultant, principal, agent, partner, officer, director, investor, or shareholder, except as a shareholder of less than one percent of a publicly traded company) that: (i) are the same or similar in function or purpose to the services Executive provided to the Company during the last two years of his employment by the Company, and/or (ii) will likely result in the disclosure of Confidential Information to a Competitor or the use of Confidential Information on behalf of a Competitor.
(ii) A "Competitor" for purposes of this Agreement shall mean any person, corporation or other entity that competes with one or more of the business units of the Company. As of the Effective Date, it is understood that the Company's business units include: (i) pharmacy benefits management ("PBM"), including the administration of pharmacy benefits for businesses, government agencies and health plans; mail order pharmacy; specialty pharmacy; and Medicare Part D services; (ii) "Retail Pharmacy," which includes the sale of prescription drugs as well as over-the-counter medications, health, beauty, and other convenience items at retail; and (iii) basic acute health care clinics ("MinuteClinic"). It is understood and agreed that Retail Pharmacy Competitors include but are not limited to chain drug store companies such as Walgreen Co. and Rite Aid Corporation, as well as mass merchants that include Retail Pharmacies, including but not limited to, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and Target Corp., as well as food/drug combinations
such as The Kroger Co. and Supervalu Inc. It is further understood and agreed that PBM Competitors include, but are not limited to, Medco Health Solutions, Inc., Express Scripts, Inc., SXC Health Solutions Corp., and Catalyst, Inc., as well as health plans that provide PBM services that compete with the Company's PBM business. A person or entity shall not be considered a Retail Pharmacy Competitor if such entity derives annual gross revenues from its business in an amount that is less than 5% of the Company's gross revenues from its Retail Pharmacy business. A person or entity shall not be considered a PBM Competitor unless it provides products or services that are offered by or compete with the products or services offered by CVS Caremark's PBM business.
(iii) "Consulting or Audit Services" shall mean any activity that involves providing audit review or other consulting or advisory services with respect to any relationship between the Company and any third party, including but not limited to any PBM clients, and that is likely to result in the use or disclosure of Confidential Information. For purposes of this Agreement, providing Consulting or Audit Services shall expressly include, but is not limited to, providing such services for Aon Hewitt, Towers Watson, and/or Mercer, in connection with their PBM consulting business.
(iv) The "Non-Competition Period" shall be the period of twenty-four (24) months following the termination of Executive's employment with the Company for any reason.
(v) "Restricted Area" refers to those states within the United States in which the Company conducts its business, as well as the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.
 
 
(i) During Executive's employment by the Company or one of its subsidiaries and during the Non-Solicitation Period, which shall be twenty-four (24) months following the termination of Executive's employment with the Company for any reason, Executive will not, unless a duly authorized officer of the Company gives him written authorization to do so, interfere with the Company's business relationships with a Covered Customer by soliciting or communicating (regardless of who initiates the communication) with a Covered Customer to induce or encourage the Covered Customer to (i) stop doing business or reduce its business with the Company, or (ii) buy a product or service that competes with a product or service offered by the Company's PBM business. A "Covered Customer" is a customer (person or entity) of the Company's PBM business with which Executive had business-related contact or dealings, or about and/or from which Executive received Confidential Information, during the two years prior to Executive's termination with the Company. A Covered Customer does not include a customer that has fully and finally decided to cease doing any business with the Company independent of any conduct or communications by Executive or breach of these Executive Covenants, and that has, in fact, ceased doing any business with the Company. Nothing in this Paragraph shall prevent Executive from working as a staff pharmacist or in another Retail Pharmacy position wherein he would be providing or selling prescriptions or other products directly to consumers.
(ii) Executive also agrees that during the Non-Solicitation Period, Executive will not interfere with the Company's relationship with its Business Partners by soliciting or communicating (regardless of who initiates the communication) with a Business Partner to induce or encourage the Business Partner to stop doing business or reduce its business with the Company, unless a duly authorized officer of the Company gives Executive written authorization to do so. "Business Partner" means a supplier, manufacturer, and/or pharmaceutical company (person or entity) with whom the Company has a business relationship and with which Executive had business-related contact or dealings, or about which Executive received Confidential Information, in the two years prior to the termination of Executive's employment with the Company. A Business Partner does not include a supplier, manufacturer, and/or pharmaceutical company that has fully and finally decided to terminate its business relationship with the Company independent of any conduct or communications by Executive or breach of these Executive Covenants, and which has, in fact, ceased doing any business with the Company.
(iii) During the Non-Solicitation Period, Executive will not interfere with the Company's relationship with any employee of the Company by: (i) soliciting or communicating with the employee to induce or encourage him or her to leave the Company's employ (regardless of who first initiates the
communication); (ii) helping another person or entity evaluate such employee as an employment candidate; or (iii) otherwise helping any person or entity hire an employee away from the Company unless a duly authorized officer of the Company gives Executive written authorization to do so. Where required by law, the foregoing restriction will only apply to employees with whom Executive had material contact or about whom Executive received Confidential Information within the two years prior to the termination of Executive's employment with the Company.
 
(g) . The Company makes no guarantees or representations with respect to the taxability of any payments set forth herein. Nevertheless, the Executive and Company agree that it is the intent of the parties that this Agreement not violate any applicable provision of, or result in any additional tax or penalty under, Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and that to the extent any provisions of this Agreement do not comply with such Section 409A the parties will make such changes as are mutually agreed upon in order to comply with Section 409A. In all events, to the extent required to avoid a violation of the applicable rules under all Section 409A by reason of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, payment of any amounts subject to Section 409A of the Code shall be delayed until the relevant date of payment that will result in compliance with the rules of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, for purposes of any provision of this Agreement providing for the payment of any amounts or benefits upon or following a termination of employment, references to the Executive's "termination of employment" (and corollary terms) with the Company shall be construed to refer to Executive's "separation from service" (within the meaning of Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(h)). Whenever payments under this Agreement are to be made in installments (, severance payments in the form of monthly salary continuation), each such installment shall be deemed to be a separate payment for purposes of Section 409A. With respect to any reimbursement or in-kind benefit arrangements that constitute deferred compensation for purposes of Section 409A, except as otherwise permitted by Section 409A, the following conditions shall be applicable: (i) the amount eligible for reimbursement, or in-kind benefits provided, under any such arrangement in one calendar year may not affect the amount eligible for reimbursement, or in-kind benefits to be provided, under such arrangement in any other calendar year (except that the health and dental plans may impose a limit on the amount that may be reimbursed or paid), (ii) any reimbursement must be made on or before the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the expense was incurred, and (iii) the right to reimbursement or in-kind benefits is not subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit. Any payments that qualify for the "short-term deferral" exception under Treasury Regulations 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii), or another exception under Section 409A will be paid under the applicable exception to the greatest extent possible.
Taxation
e.g.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CVS Caremark Corporation has caused this instrument of amendment to be executed by its duly authorized officer, and the Executive has hereunto put his hand, this 29th day of March, 2012.
 

Exhibit 99.1
WOONSOCKET, R.I., March 30, 2012  CVS Caremark Corporation (NYSE: CVS) today outlined succession plans for its PBM business. During the company's Analyst meeting this past December, Per Lofberg announced his intention to extend his employment agreement with CVS Caremark through December 2013. Today the company announced that Jon Roberts, EVP and Chief Operating Officer of the PBM, will assume the role of President of the PBM business effective September 1, 2012 and will continue to report to Lofberg. Lofberg will continue to report to Larry Merlo, President and Chief Executive Officer of CVS Caremark Corporation.
In his new role as President, Caremark Pharmacy Services, Roberts will have day-to-day oversight for the PBM business including sales and account management and operations. Effective September 1, 2012, Lofberg will focus on driving PBM strategy, new business development, and client relationship management and retention serving effectively as the chairman of the PBM.
Roberts, 56, a pharmacist by training, has more than 30 years of pharmacy health care experience including 21 years with CVS Caremark. He has served in the role of Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for Caremark Pharmacy Services since 2010. Prior to that, he led Pharmaceutical Purchasing, Pricing and Network Relations. While serving as the company's Chief Information Officer, Roberts spearheaded RxConnect which significantly enhanced retail pharmacy performance. He spent more than 14 years in the company's Retail business and held a variety of senior roles including serving as the Senior Vice President of Retail Operations.
"Jon is the right leader to build on the tremendous foundation that Per Lofberg has created for long-term success," stated Larry Merlo, President and Chief Executive Officer of CVS Caremark. "Jon is a results-driven leader, whose analytical approach has served him well in the variety of roles he has held over his 20-year tenure with CVS Caremark. His broad base of pharmacy experience will further our mission to continually improve how we do business and look for ways to do it better, more efficiently and at a lower cost."
"This thoughtful leadership transition demonstrates the strength of our succession planning process, and importantly ensures that we're well-positioned to continue to meet the needs of our clients and their members. As President and CEO, I am grateful to both Per and Jon for their partnership as we work together to position Caremark Pharmacy Services for continued long-term success."
About CVS Caremark
CVS Caremark is the largest pharmacy health care provider in the United States with integrated offerings across the entire spectrum of pharmacy care. We are a pharmacy innovation company, uniquely positioned to engage plan members in behaviors that improve their health and to lower overall health care costs for health plans, plan sponsors and their members. CVS Caremark is a market leader in mail order pharmacy, retail pharmacy, specialty pharmacy, and retail clinics, and is a leading provider of Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans. As one of the country's largest pharmacy benefits managers (PBMs), we provide access to a network of more than 65,000 pharmacies, including more than 7,300 CVS/pharmacy stores that provide unparalleled service and capabilities. Our clinical offerings include our signature Pharmacy Advisor program as well as innovative generic step therapy and genetic benefit management programs that promote more cost effective and healthier behaviors and improve health care outcomes. General information about CVS Caremark is available through the Company's website at .
http://info.cvscaremark.com/


