FILE:SRE/SRE-8K-20041104111337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 4, 2004, Sempra Energy announced consolidated net income of $231 million, or $0.98 per diluted share of common stock, for the third quarter of 2004. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. The information furnished in this Item 12 and in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing of Sempra Energy, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
99.1 November 4, 2004 Sempra Energy News Release (including tables)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 
 
Power Generation, Energy Trading Net Income Increase Sharply
2004 Earnings Guidance Raised to $3.15 to $3.25 per Share
SAN DIEGO, Nov. 4, 2004 -- Sempra Energy (NYSE: SRE) today reported third-quarter 2004 earnings of $231 million, or $0.98 per diluted share, compared with $211 million, or $1.00 per diluted share, in the third quarter 2003.
For the first nine months of 2004, Sempra Energy's earnings were $549 million, or $2.36 per diluted share, up 19 percent per share over the $415 million, or $1.98 per diluted share, for the same period in 2003. Earnings per share in 2004 have been affected by a greater number of shares outstanding.
"Our strong third-quarter results reflect the continued growth in our power-generation and energy-trading businesses," said Stephen L. Baum, chairman and chief executive officer of Sempra Energy. "Our year-to-date performance and positive outlook for the remainder of the year put us on pace for record results."
Based on the updated outlook, Baum said the company is raising its 2004 earnings-per-share guidance range to $3.15 to $3.25 from $2.90 to $3.10.
Sempra Energy's revenues in the third quarter 2004 were $2.2 billion, compared with $2.1 billion in the third quarter last year.
OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS
Sempra Energy Utilities
Net income for Southern California Gas Co. in the third-quarter 2004 rose to $68 million from $53 million in the year-earlier period, due to higher revenues and an after-tax $9 million one-time gain from a property sale. SoCalGas' third-quarter 2003 results included an after-tax charge of $32 million for litigation costs and losses associated with a sublease.
Third-quarter 2004 net income for San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG&E) was $60 million, compared with $120 million in last year's third quarter. Third-quarter 2003 results included an after-tax, one-time positive contribution of $65 million from the settlement of litigation with the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) related to intermediate-term power-purchase contracts owned by SDG&E, offset by an after-tax charge of $11 million for litigation costs.
Sempra Energy Trading
In the third quarter 2004, Sempra Energy Trading's net income doubled to $44 million from $22 million in last year's third quarter, driven primarily by increased profitability in its petroleum trading operations.
"Through the first three quarters, Sempra Energy Trading has earned $143 million and is off to a solid start in the fourth quarter," said Baum.
Sempra Energy Resources
Sempra Energy Resources' net income rose to $64 million in the third quarter 2004 from $33 million in the year-earlier period, due to an increase in contracted power sales and a full quarter of contributions from the new Texas power plants acquired in July 2004.
Sempra Energy International
Sempra Energy International's third-quarter 2004 net income was $7 million, compared with a $32 million loss last year during the same period. Quarterly results last year included an after-tax charge of $50 million related to the write-down of the carrying value of assets of Frontier Energy, a North Carolina-based gas utility subsidiary.
Sempra Energy LNG
Last month, Sempra Energy LNG announced two milestone agreements that have enabled the company to contract for the entire processing capacity of its Energa Costa Azul liquefied natural gas (LNG) receipt terminal in Baja California, Mexico. Site preparation has begun and discussions already are underway with existing customers and others for expansion of the facility.
The agreements ensure that Sempra Energy LNG retains full ownership and operating responsibility for the Energa Costa Azul terminal. The company signed a 20-year agreement with Shell International Gas Limited to provide Shell with half the capacity of the terminal. Sempra Energy LNG also signed a 20-year agreement with BP and its Tangguh LNG partners to supply the other half of the terminal's capacity with LNG from Indonesia. The total initial gas processing capacity for the Energa Costa Azul facility is 1 billion cubic feet per day. Operations are scheduled to begin in 2008.
Sempra Energy LNG also is developing LNG receipt terminals near Lake Charles, La., and Port Arthur, Texas.
Internet Broadcast
Sempra Energy will broadcast a live discussion of its earnings results over the Internet today at 1 p.m. EST with key company executives. Access is available by logging onto the Web site at www.sempra.com. For those unable to log onto the live Webcast, the teleconference will be available on replay a few hours after its conclusion by dialing (706) 645-9291 and entering the passcode, 178618.
Sempra Energy (NYSE: SRE), based in San Diego, is a Fortune 500 energy services holding company with 2003 revenues of $7.9 billion. The Sempra Energy companies' 13,000 employees serve more than 10 million customers in the United States, Europe, Canada, Mexico, South America and Asia.
This press release contains statements that are not historical fact and constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  When the company uses words like "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "estimates," "may," "would," "should" or similar expressions, or when the company discusses its strategy or plans, the company is making forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance.  They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Future results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are necessarily based upon various assumptions involving judgments with respect to the future and other risks, including, among others: national, international, regional and local economic, competitive, political, legislative and regulatory conditions and developments; actions by the California Public Utilities Co mmission, the California State Legislature, the California Department of Water Resources, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and other regulatory bodies in the United States and other countries; capital market conditions, inflation rates, interest rates and exchange rates; energy and trading markets, including the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices; the availability of natural gas; weather conditions and conservation efforts; war and terrorist attacks; business, regulatory, environmental, and legal decisions and requirements; the pace of deregulation of retail natural gas and electricity delivery; the timing and success of business development efforts; and other uncertainties, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the company's control. These risks and uncertainties are further discussed in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission that are available through the EDGAR system without charge at its Web site,
www.sec.gov
and on the company's Web site,
www.sempra.com
.
Sempra Energy Trading, Sempra Energy Resources, Sempra Energy International, Sempra Energy LNG and Sempra Energy Solutions are not the same as the utilities, San Diego Gas & Electric and Southern California Gas Co.




