FILE:SRE/SRE-8K-20060609164333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 5.02    Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On June 6, 2006 Luis Tllez was elected to the Board of Directors of Sempra Energy. The press release announcing his election and containing the information required by paragraph (d) of this Item 5.02 is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 99.1 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1 -- Press release dated June 9, 2006 announcing the election of Luis Tllez as a director of Sempra Energy.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
SAN DIEGO, June 9, 2006 - Sempra Energy (NYSE: SRE) today announced that Luis Tllez has joined the company's board of directors.
Based in Mexico City, Tllez, 47, is a managing director for the Carlyle Group investment firm. Prior to joining Carlyle, Tllez served as executive vice president of DESC, S.A. de C.V., one of the largest companies in Mexico, and held several senior positions in the Mexican government.
From 1997 to 2000, Tllez served as Mexico's Secretary of Energy. During his tenure, he designed and implemented an ambitious program to restructure the Mexican electricity sector, allowing broader private involvement in generating, distributing and transmitting electricity.  In 1998 and 1999, Tllez headed Mexico's oil diplomacy efforts and played a key role in restoring stability in international oil markets and oil prices. Previously, Tllez served as Chief of Staff to Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo and served in other senior positions in the Mexican government.
"We are pleased that Luis Tllez has joined our board of directors," said Donald E. Felsinger, chairman and chief executive officer of Sempra Energy. "He has a long and distinguished career in energy and finance in Mexico in both the public and private sectors. "
Tllez earned his bachelor's degree in economics from the Instituto Tecnolgico Autnomo de Mxico, summa cum laude, and his Ph.D. in economics from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Tllez was named "Global Leader of Tomorrow" by the World Economic Forum and "Leader for the New Millennium" by Time magazine.
Sempra Energy now has a total of 11 board members.
Sempra Energy, based in San Diego, is a Fortune 500 energy services holding company with 2005 revenues of $11.7 billion. The Sempra Energy companies' 14,000 employees serve more than 29 million consumers in the United States, Europe, Canada, Mexico, South America and Asia.


