FILE:SRE/SRE-8K-20100920165959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Other Events
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
Item 2.06.  Material Impairments
As described in Item 8.01 of this Current Report, Sempra Energy expects in the third quarter of 2010 to reduce the carrying value of its investment in RBS Sempra Commodities resulting in an after-tax charge ranging from $50 million to $150 million. The impairment charge will not result in any cash expenditures.
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events
On September 20, 2010, RBS Sempra Commodities entered into an agreement to sell its U.S. retail commodity marketing business, Sempra Energy Solutions, to Noble Group Ltd. for $317 million in cash, plus assumption of $265 million in debt. RBS Sempra Commodities is a joint venture of Sempra Energy and The Royal Bank of Scotland.  
Completion of the transaction will require regulatory approvals from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act and is expected to close in the fourth quarter 2010.
The transaction is part of a program to sell all of RBS Sempra Commodities' businesses. The first phase of the sales program was completed in July 2010, with the sale to JP Morgan Chase & Co. of the joint venture's global metals and oil businesses, as well as the European natural gas and power businesses, for approximately $1.6 billion.  
RBS Sempra Commodities also is in advanced negotiations for the sale of its North American wholesale power and natural gas business and related assets, the last of the joint venture's remaining business and assets. These are expected to be sold at a discount to book value.
 
Sempra Energy expects its share of the proceeds from the sales of all of the joint venture's businesses and related cash distributions to total $1.8 billion to $1.9 billion. These distributions are net of expected transactional transition costs and are not expected to fully recover the goodwill included in the carrying value of Sempra Energy's investment in the joint venture. Accordingly, Sempra Energy also expects in the third quarter of 2010 to reduce its investment in RBS Sempra Commodities resulting in an after-tax charge ranging from $50 million to $150 million.
 
  
  
  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  
  
  
  
  
  


