FILE:HAS/HAS-8K-20050207082803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): February 7, 2005 ------------------------- HASBRO, INC. -------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) RHODE ISLAND 1-6682 05-0155090 - -------------- ------------ ------------------- (State of (Commission (IRS Employer Incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 1027 NEWPORT AVE., PAWTUCKET, RHODE ISLAND 02862 - ------------------------------------------ ------------------- (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) (401) 431-8697 ------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition. On February 7, 2005, we announced our financial results for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended December 26, 2004, and certain other information. The press release, which has been attached as Exhibit 99, discloses a financial measure, Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA"), that is considered a non-GAAP financial measure as defined under SEC rules. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Management believes that EBITDA is one of the appropriate measures for evaluating our operating performance, because it reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, to invest in the business, strengthen the balance sheet and make strategic acquisitions. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, net earnings or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as more fully discussed in our financial statements and filings with the SEC. The EBITDA measures included in our press release have been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as is required under SEC rules regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures. This press release also includes the Company's International segment net revenues excluding the impact of exchange rates. Management believes that the presentation of International segment net revenues minus the impact of exchange rate changes provides information that is helpful to an investor's understanding of the segment's underlying business performance absent exchange rate fluctuations which are beyond the Company's control. As used herein, "GAAP" refers to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Item 8.01. Other Events. The February 7, 2005 Press Release of the Company attached hereto as EXHIBIT 99 is incorporated herein by reference. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits 99 Press Release, dated February 7, 2005, of Hasbro, Inc. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. HASBRO, INC. ------------ (Registrant) Date: February 7, 2005 By: /s/ David D.R. Hargreaves -------------------------- David D. R. Hargreaves Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Duly Authorized Officer and Principal Financial Officer) HASBRO, INC. Current Report on Form 8-K Dated February 7, 2005 Exhibit Index Exhibit No. Exhibits - ------- -------- 99 Press Release, dated February 7, 2005, of Hasbro, Inc.

EXHIBIT 99
 
Hasbro Reports Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2004 Results
Highlights
Net revenues of $3.0 billion, down 4.4% for the year, results include 2.5% positive impact from foreign exchange;
Earnings per diluted share for the year, before the cumulative effect of required accounting changes, increased to $0.96 vs. prior year of $0.94;
Operating margin was 9.8%, compared to 11% last year, the decline can be primarily attributed to the U.S. Toys segment;
Growth in new products helped mitigate a $229 million decline in BEYBLADE revenues;
Continued innovation in the Tween Electronic category;
Strong operating cash flow over the last 12 months resulted in significant cash, net of debt - something not achieved since 1997.
Pawtucket, RI (February 7, 2005) -- Hasbro, Inc. (NYSE: HAS) today reported its 2004 full year and fourth quarter results. For the year, the Company reported net earnings of $196.2 million or $0.96 per diluted share, compared to $157.7 million or $0.85 per diluted share, in 2003. During 2003 net earnings before cumulative effect of accounting change was $175.0 million, or $0.94 per diluted share. For the fourth quarter, the Company reported net earnings of $82.1 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, compared to $76.6 million or $0.41 per diluted share last year. The 2003 earnings per share amounts have been restated due to the required adoption of EITF 04-08 in the fourth quarter of 2004.
For the year, worldwide net revenues were $3.0 billion, compared to $3.1 billion a year ago. For the fourth quarter, the Company reported worldwide net revenues of $1.1 billion, compared to $1.1 billion a year ago.
"Our top-line results reflect a tougher retail environment in the fourth quarter than we expected, as well as a disappointing performance in the U. S. Toys segment, primarily related to softness in our boys business," said Alfred J. Verrecchia, President and Chief Executive Officer. "However, despite this revenue reduction, we were able to achieve earnings per diluted share ahead of a year ago and strong cash flow."
"As previously mentioned, we took actions in the fourth quarter, primarily in the U. S. Toys segment, to reduce our expenses and position us more favorably in the faster growing areas of our business. Going forward, we will continue to drive innovation and create products that are compelling to consumers," Verrecchia concluded.
The diluted earnings per share results in 2004 include aggregate pre-tax charges of approximately $25.7 million related to the Company's licensing agreement with Disney, a non-cash charge related to a decline in the value of the Company's investment in Infogrames Entertainment SA and severance costs related to a reduction in headcount in December, primarily in the U.S. Toys segment. In 2003 the Company had pre-tax charges in the fourth quarter aggregating approximately $32.4 million, comprised of severance payments related to the cessation of toy manufacturing operations at the Company's Valencia, Spain facility and lease obligations and severance for employees of the Wizards of the Coast retail stores.
"I'm pleased that, even in a difficult year in which revenues were down, our financial discipline enabled us to generate $359 million in operating cash flow and we ended the year with significant cash, net of debt, for the first time since 1997," said David Hargreaves, Chief Financial Officer.
Revenues in the U.S. Toys segment were $952.9 million for the year and $263.7 million for the quarter, compared to $1.1 billion and $318.9 million in 2003, respectively. The results reflect an overall softness in the boys business, including a year over year decline of $97 million in revenue from BEYBLADE. Full year operating profit decreased to $7.2 million, compared with $92.0 million last year, primarily due to lower volume on high margin boys brands, including BEYBLADE, and low margins on higher volume VIDEONOW products. Included in 2004 operating expenses are charges associated with the organizational and staffing changes that were made in December.
Revenues in the Games segment were $796.0 million for the year and $270.3 million for the quarter, compared to $804.5 million and $293.5 million in 2003, respectively. Many new product introductions, including DVD and trading card games performed well, partially off-setting an overall weakness in the traditional board game business. Full year operating profit decreased to $137.6 million, compared with $175.3 million last year, reflecting a change in the mix in trading card game revenues and higher development and royalty expenses associated with DVD games.
International segment revenues were $1.2 billion for the year and $504.9 million for the quarter, compared to $1.2 billion and $477.2 million in 2003, respectively. The revenues include the positive impact of foreign exchange of approximately $78.0 million for the year and $31.8 million for the quarter. Absent this impact, revenues declined 5.6% for the year to $1.1 billion and decreased 0.9% for the quarter to $473.1 million. The results also reflect a year over year decline of $132 million in revenue from BEYBLADE. Full year operating profit increased significantly to $142.1 million, compared with $91.3 million last year, due primarily to increased gross profit arising from higher revenues on high margin products, such as MAGIC: THE GATHERING and FURREAL FRIENDS. In 2003, operating expenses included $18.4 million of severance payments related to the cessation of toy manufacturing operations in the Company's Valencia, Spain facility.
The 2003 full year results include the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle related to the adoption of FASB Statement No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity." As a result of adopting this statement, Hasbro recorded a one-time non-cash charge from the cumulative effect of this accounting change totaling $17.4 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, in the consolidated statement of operations for 2003.
Full year Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) were $438.2 million, compared to $460.6 million last year. The attached schedules provide a reconciliation of EBITDA to net earnings for the fourth quarter and full year.
The Company will web cast its fourth quarter earnings conference call at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time today. Investors and the media are invited to listen at http://www.hasbro.com (select "Corporate Info" from the home page, click on "Investor Information," and then click on the web cast microphone).
Hasbro is a worldwide leader in children's and family leisure time entertainment products and services, including the design, manufacture and marketing of games and toys ranging from traditional to high-tech. Both internationally and in the U.S., its PLAYSKOOL, TONKA, MILTON BRADLEY, PARKER BROTHERS, TIGER, and WIZARDS OF THE COAST brands and products provide the highest quality and most recognizable play experiences in the world.
Certain statements contained in this release contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include statements concerning our future product plans and may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "expect," "intend," "look forward," "may," "planned," "potential," "should," "will" and "would." Such forward-looking statements are inherently subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual actions or results may differ materially from those expected or anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Specific factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to: the Company's ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis and the acceptance of those products by customers and consumers at prices that will be sufficient to profitably rec over development, manufacturing, marketing, royalty and other costs of products; economic and public health conditions, including factors which impact the retail market or the Company's ability to manufacture and deliver products, higher fuel and commodity prices, higher transportation costs and potential transportation delays, currency fluctuations and government regulation and other conditions in the various markets in which the Company operates throughout the world; the concentration of the Company's customers; the inventory policies of retailers, including the concentration of the Company's revenues in the second half and fourth quarter of the year, together with increased reliance by retailers on quick response inventory management techniques, which increases the risk of underproduction of popular items, overproduction of less popular items and failure to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules; work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, which may impact the Company's ability to manufacture or delive r product; the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one of the Company's significant retailers which could negatively impact the Company's revenues or bad debt exposure; the impact of competition on revenues, margins and other aspects of the Company's business, including the ability to secure, maintain and renew popular licenses and the ability to attract and retain talented employees in a competitive environment; market conditions, third party actions or approvals and the impact of competition that could delay or increase the cost of implementation of the Company's consolidation programs or alter the Company's actions and reduce actual results; the risk that anticipated benefits of acquisitions may not occur or be delayed or reduced in their realization; and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the Company's public announcements and SEC filings. The Company undertakes no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this release or to upda te them to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this release.
This presentation includes a non-GAAP financial measure as defined under rules the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), specifically EBITDA. As required by SEC rules, we have provided reconciliation on the attached schedule of this measure to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) represents net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change, excluding, interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that EBITDA is one of the appropriate measures for evaluating the operating performance of the Company because it reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, to invest in the business, strengthen the balance sheet, and make strategic acquisitions. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net earnings or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in the Company's financial statements and filings with the SEC. As used herein, "GAAP" refers to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. This presentation also includes the Company's International segment net revenues excluding the impact of exchange rates. Management believes that the presentation of International segment net revenues minus the impact of exchange rate changes provides information that is helpful to an investor's understanding of the segment's underlying business performance absent exchange rate fluctuations which are beyond the Company's control.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


