FILE:HAS/HAS-8K-20070423082800.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): April 23, 2007 ------------------------- HASBRO, INC. -------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) RHODE ISLAND 1-6682 05-0155090 - -------------- ------------ ------------------- (State of (Commission (IRS Employer Incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 1027 NEWPORT AVE., PAWTUCKET, RHODE ISLAND 02862 - ------------------------------------------ ------------------- (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) (401) 431-8697 ------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition. On April 23, 2007, we announced our financial results for the fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2007, and certain other information. The press release, which has been attached as Exhibit 99, discloses a financial measure, Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA"), that is considered a non-GAAP financial measure as defined under SEC rules. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Management believes that EBITDA is one of the appropriate measures for evaluating our operating performance, because it reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, to invest in the business, strengthen the balance sheet and make strategic acquisitions. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, net earnings or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as more fully discussed in our financial statements and filings with the SEC. The EBITDA measures included in our press release have been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as is required under SEC rules regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures. This press release also includes the Company's International segment net revenues excluding the impact of exchange rates. Management believes that the presentation of International segment net revenues excluding the impact of exchange rates is helpful to an investor's understanding of the segment's underlying business performance absent the currency fluctuations which are beyond the Company's control. As used herein, "GAAP" refers to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits 99 Press Release, dated April 23, 2007, of Hasbro, Inc.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. HASBRO, INC. ------------ (Registrant) Date: April 23, 2007 By: /s/ David D.R. Hargreaves -------------------------- David D. R. Hargreaves Executive Vice President, Finance and Global Operations, and Chief Financial Officer (Duly Authorized Officer and Principal Financial Officer)
HASBRO, INC. Current Report on Form 8-K Dated April 23, 2007 Exhibit Index Exhibit No. Exhibits - ------- -------- 99 Press Release, dated April 23, 2007, of Hasbro, Inc.

EXHIBIT 99
Highlights
Net revenues of $625.3 million, an increase of $157.1 million or 34% compared to $468.2 million a year ago;
Net earnings of $32.9 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, compared to net loss of ($4.9) million, or ($0.03) per diluted share last year;
All major product categories were up significantly, with growth driven by shipments of the MARVEL product line, as well as core brands including LITTLEST PET SHOP, NERF, PLAY-DOH, MY LITTLE PONY, PLAYSKOOL, TRANSFORMERS and board games;
During the quarter, the Company repurchased approximately 2.5 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $74 million.
 
Pawtucket, RI (April 23, 2007) -- Hasbro, Inc. (NYSE: HAS) today reported net revenues of $625.3 million, an increase of $157.1 million or 34% compared to $468.2 million a year ago.  The Company reported net earnings of $32.9 million or $0.19 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of ($4.9) million or ($0.03) per diluted share in 2006.
"We are very pleased with the strong start to the year, with all major product categories growing year over year.  Our core brands and new product initiatives performed very well with revenue growth for the quarter pretty balanced between our MARVEL business and all our other Hasbro business,"said Alfred J. Verrecchia, President and Chief Executive Officer.  "That said, it is only the first quarter and there is still a lot of business to be done to achieve our full-year financial goals," Verrecchia concluded.
North American segment revenues for the quarter were $421.1 million, an increase of 36% compared to $310.3 million in 2006, with all major product categories growing significantly.  The results reflect shipments of the MARVEL product line, as well as growth in core brands including LITTLEST PET SHOP, PLAYSKOOL, NERF, PLAY-DOH and board games.  The North American segment reported an operating profit of $45.3 million compared to $4.8 million last year.  This improvement is primarily a reflection of higher revenues.
 
International segment revenues for the quarter were $187.7 million, an increase of 29% compared to $145.5 million in 2006, with all major product categories, except for Tweens, up significantly.  The revenues include a positive foreign exchange impact of approximately $11.5 million.  Absent this impact, revenues increased 21% for the quarter to $176.2 million.  The results reflect shipments of the MARVEL product line, as well as growth in core brands including LITTLEST PET SHOP, MY LITTLE PONY, PLAYSKOOL and board games.  The International segment reported an operating loss of ($108) thousand compared to ($8.3) million in 2006.  This improvement is primarily a reflection of higher revenues.
During the quarter, the Board of Directors increased the May 2007 quarterly dividend $0.04 per share, or 33%, to $0.16 per share, the fourth consecutive annual increase and the highest it has been in the history of the Company.  Additionally, the Company repurchased 2.5 million shares of common stock at a cost of $74.0 million as part of its share buyback program.
"While it's early in 2007, we are very pleased with the earnings we reported today and the continued progress we are making on all of our financial goals.  Our balance sheet is strong and we continue to generate good cash flow, which is being returned to shareholders via our increased dividend and the share buyback program," said David Hargreaves, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
 
The Company will web cast its first quarter earnings conference call at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time today. Investors and the media are invited to listen at http://www.hasbro.com (select "Corporate Info" from the home page, click on "Investor Information," and then click on the web cast microphone).
Hasbro is a worldwide leader in children's and family leisure time entertainment products and services, including the design, manufacture and marketing of games and toys ranging from traditional to high-tech.  Both internationally and in the U.S., its PLAYSKOOL, TONKA, MILTON BRADLEY, PARKER BROTHERS, TIGER, and WIZARDS OF THE COAST brands and products provide the highest quality and most recognizable play experiences in the world.
Certain statements contained in this release contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include expectations concerning the Company's future opportunities and ability to achieve its financial goals and may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "expect," "intend," "look forward," "may," "planned," "potential," "should," "will" and "would." Such forward-looking statements are inherently subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual actions or results may differ materially from those expected or anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Specific factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limit ed to: the Company's ability to design, manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely and cost-effective basis, interest in and acceptance and purchase of those products by retail customers and consumers in quantities and at prices that will be sufficient to profitably recover development, manufacturing, marketing, royalty and other costs of products; economic and public health conditions in the various markets in which the Company and its customers and suppliers operate throughout the world, including factors which impact the retail market, disposable income or consumer demand for the Company's products, the Company's ability to manufacture and deliver products, higher fuel and other commodity prices, higher transportation costs and potential transportation delays, currency fluctuations and government regulation; the concentration of the Company's customers; the inventory policies of the Company's retail customers, including the concentration of the Company's revenues in the second half and fourth quarter of the year, together with increased reliance by retailers on quick response inventory management techniques, which increases the risk of underproduction of popular items, overproduction of less popular items and failure to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules; work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, which may impact the Company's ability to manufacture or deliver product in a timely and cost-effective manner; the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one of the Company's significant retailers which could negatively impact the Company's revenues or bad debt exposure; the impact of competition on revenues, margins and other aspects of the Company's business, including the ability to secure, maintain and renew popular licenses and the ability to attract and retain talented employees in a competitive environment; market conditions, third party actions or approvals and the impact of competition which could reduce demand for the Company's products or delay or increas e the cost of implementation of the Company's programs or alter the Company's actions and reduce actual results; the risk that anticipated benefits of acquisitions may not occur or be delayed or reduced in their realization; and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the Company's public announcements and SEC filings. The Company undertakes no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this release or to update them to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this release.
This presentation includes a non-GAAP financial measure as defined under rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), specifically EBITDA. As required by SEC rules, we have provided reconciliation on the attached schedule of this measure to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) represents net earnings excluding, interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that EBITDA is one of the appropriate measures for evaluating the operating performance of the Company because it reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, to invest in the business, strengthen the balance sheet, and make strategic acquisitions. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net earnings or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in the Company's financial statements and filings with the SEC. As used herein, "GAAP" refers to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. This presentation also discusses the Company's International segment net revenues excluding the impact of exchange rates.  Management believes that the presentation of International segment net revenues excluding the impact of exchange rates is helpful to an investor's understanding of the segment's underlying business performance absent the currency fluctuations which are beyond the Company's control.


