FILE:HAS/HAS-8K-20080211081820.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 11, 2008, we announced our financial results for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended December 30, 2007, and certain other financial information. The press release, which has been attached as Exhibit 99, discloses a financial measure, Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA"), that is considered a non-GAAP financial measure as defined under SEC rules. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Management believes that EBITDA is one of the appropriate measures for evaluating our operating performance, because it reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities in cluding, among others, to invest in the business, strengthen the balance sheet and make strategic acquisitions. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, net earnings or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as more fully discussed in our financial statements and filings with the SEC. The EBITDA measures included in our press release have been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as is required under SEC rules regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures.     
This press release also includes the Company's International segment net revenues excluding the impact of changes in exchange rates. Management believes that the presentation of the International segment net revenues minus the impact of exchange rate changes provides information that is helpful to an investor's understanding of the segment's underlying business performance absent exchange rate fluctuations which are beyond the Company's control.
As used herein, "GAAP" refers to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
                
Exhibits
99
Press Release, dated February 11, 2008, of Hasbro, Inc.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99
Fourth Quarter Highlights
Net earnings of $133.7 million, an increase of 24%;
Earnings per diluted share of $0.84, up 35%;
Net revenues of $1.3 billion, up 16% from a year ago.
Full-Year Highlights
Net earnings of $333.0 million, an increase of over $100 million compared to last year's record net earnings of $230.1 million;
Operating profit improved 38% to $519.4 million or 13.5% of net revenues;
Earnings per diluted share of $1.97, a 53% increase from the prior year;
Net revenues of $3.8 billion, up 22% from a year ago;
North American segment net revenues were up 15% and International segment net revenues were up 33%;
Strength in the business was broad based both in terms of geography and product categories;
During the year, the Company repurchased 20.8 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $587.0 million.
Pawtucket, RI (February 11, 2008) -- Hasbro, Inc. (NYSE: HAS) today reported 2007 fourth quarter and full-year results.  For the fourth quarter the Company reported net revenues of $1.3 billion, an increase of $181.4 million or 16%, compared to $1.1 billion a year ago.  The Company reported net earnings for the quarter of $133.7 million or $0.84 per diluted share, compared to $108.3 million or $0.62 per diluted share in 2006.  
For the year, the Company reported record net earnings of $333.0 million, or $1.97 per diluted share, compared to $230.1 million or $1.29 per diluted share in 2006.  The 2007 results include a favorable tax adjustment of $29.6 million or $0.17 per diluted share that was taken in the third quarter.  In addition, the 2007 and 2006 full-year results included expenses of $0.23 per diluted share or $44.4 million, and $0.14 per diluted share or $31.8 million, respectively, related to the Lucas warrants mark to market.  The Company exercised the right to purchase the warrants in the second quarter of 2007.  For the year, worldwide net revenues were $3.8 billion, an increase of $686.1 million or 22%, compared to $3.2 billion a year ago.  
 "2007 was another strong year for Hasbro.  We achieved net earnings of $333.0 million, an increase of over $100 million compared to last year's record net earnings of $230.1 million.  In addition, it was the third consecutive year of record net earnings and our seventh consecutive year of earnings per share growth," said Alfred J. Verrecchia, President and Chief Executive Officer.
"Revenues were up 22% for the year and 16% for the quarter, as the business continued to be strong both in terms of category and geographic performance, providing us with momentum going into 2008," Verrecchia concluded.
North American segment net revenues were $2.5 billion, an increase of $329.7 million or 15%, compared to $2.1 billion in 2006.  The growth in revenue is attributable, in part, to the success of TRANSFORMERS, MARVEL product lines, FURREAL FRIENDS, LITTLEST PET SHOP, BABY ALIVE, MY LITTLE PONY, TOOTHTUNES, NERF, OPERATION and SORRY.  STAR WARS also remained very strong.The North American segment reported an operating profit of $318.7 million compared to $276.0 million in 2006.
 
International segment net revenues were $1.3 billion, an increase of $319.3 million or 33%, compared to $959.3 million in 2006, or an increase of 24%, net of the favorable foreign exchange impact of $88.5 million.  The growth in revenue is attributable, in part, to the success of TRANSFORMERS, MARVEL product lines, LITTLEST PET SHOP, MY LITTLE PONY, PLAYSKOOL, FURREAL FRIENDS, MONOPOLY, OPERATION and THE GAME OF LIFE.  STAR WARS also remained very strong  The International segment reported an operating profit of $158.8 million compared to $90.9 million in 2006.
.
"I'm especially pleased that when you combine the robust revenue growth we achieved in 2007, with the cost structure improvements and share count reductions we have achieved in recent years, the result is a 53% increase in reported earnings per share," said David Hargreaves, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  "In addition, we generated $601.8 million in operating cash flow during 2007," Hargreaves concluded.
The Company repurchased a total of 20.8 million shares of common stock during 2007, at a total cost of $587.0 million, leaving $109.6 million in the share repurchase authorization as of year end.  Since the inception of its buyback program in June 2005, the Company has repurchased 45.9 million shares at a total cost of $1.1 billion, at an average price of $23.73 per share.  Additionally, last week the Board of Directors increased the share buy-back program by a further $500 million and increased the quarterly dividend by $0.04 per share to $0.20 per share; this is the fifth consecutive year the dividend was increased.
The Company will web cast its earnings conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Standard Time today. Investors and the media are invited to listen at http://www.hasbro.com (select "Corporate Info" from the home page, click on "Investor Information," and then click on the web cast microphone).
Hasbro is a worldwide leader in children's and family leisure time entertainment products and services, including the design, manufacture and marketing of games and toys ranging from traditional to high-tech.  Both internationally and in the U.S., its PLAYSKOOL, TONKA, MILTON BRADLEY, PARKER BROTHERS, TIGER, and WIZARDS OF THE COAST brands and products provide the highest quality and most recognizable play experiences in the world.
Certain statements contained in this release contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include expectations concerning the Company's future opportunities and ability to achieve its financial goals and may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "expect," "intend," "look forward," "may," "planned," "potential," "should," "will" and "would." Such forward-looking statements are inherently subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual actions or results may differ materially from those expected or anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Specific factors that might cause such a difference includ e, but are not limited to: the Company's ability to design, manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely and cost-effective basis, as well as interest in and acceptance and purchase of those products by retail customers and consumers in quantities and at prices that will be sufficient to profitably recover development, manufacturing, marketing, royalty and other costs of products; economic and public health conditions in the various markets in which the Company and its customers and suppliers operate throughout the world, including factors which impact the retail market, disposable income or consumer demand for the Company's products, the Company's ability to manufacture and deliver products, higher fuel and other commodity prices, higher transportation costs and potential transportation delays, currency fluctuations and government regulation; the concentration of the Company's customers; the inventory policies of the Company's retail customers, including the concentration o f the Company's revenues in the second half and fourth quarter of the year, together with increased reliance by retailers on quick response inventory management techniques, which increases the risk of underproduction of popular items, overproduction of less popular items and failure to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules; work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, which may impact the Company's ability to manufacture or deliver product in a timely and cost-effective manner; the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one of the Company's significant retailers which could negatively impact the Company's revenues or bad debt exposure; the impact of competition on revenues, margins and other aspects of the Company's business, including the ability to secure, maintain and renew popular licenses and the ability to attract and retain talented employees in a competitive environment; concentration of manufacturing for many of the Company's products in the People's Republic of China; the risk of produ ct recalls or product liability suits; market conditions, third party actions or approvals and the impact of competition which could reduce demand for the Company's products or delay or increase the cost of implementation of the Company's programs or alter the Company's actions and reduce actual results; the risk that anticipated benefits of acquisitions may not occur or be delayed or reduced in their realization; and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the Company's public announcements and SEC filings. The Company undertakes no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this release or to update them to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this release.
This presentation includes a non-GAAP financial measure as defined under rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), specifically EBITDA. As required by SEC rules, we have provided reconciliation on the attached schedule of this measure to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) represents net earnings excluding, interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that EBITDA is one of the appropriate measures for evaluating the operating performance of the Company because it reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, to invest in the business, strengthen the balance sheet, and make strategic acquisitions. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net earnings or other measures of financial performance prepar ed in accordance with GAAP as more fully discussed in the Company's financial statements and filings with the SEC. As used herein, "GAAP" refers to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  This presentation also includes the Company's International segment net revenues excluding the impact of changes in exchange rates.  Management believes that the presentation of International segment net revenues minus the impact of exchange rate changes provides information that is helpful to an investor's understanding of the segment's underlying business performance absent exchange rate fluctuations which are beyond the Company's control.


