FILE:HAS/HAS-8K-20101221144710.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 16, 2010, Hasbro, Inc. (the Company), and its subsidiary Hasbro SA (together the "Borrowers"), entered into a Revolving Credit Agreement (the "Agreement") with: (i) Bank of America, N.A. ("Bank of America"), as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender, L/C Issuer and a Lender, (ii) Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and RBS Citizens, N.A., as joint lead arrangers and book runners, and (iii) the other financial institutions party thereto from time to time.
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings set forth in the Agreement.  A copy of the Agreement is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and the description set forth herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement.
The Agreement provides the Borrowers with a $500 million committed borrowing facility through December 16, 2014.  The Agreement replaces the Company's Revolving Credit Agreement, dated June 23, 2006.
At the Borrowers' election, the interest rates per annum applicable to Committed Loans under the Agreement will be computed either on a Base Rate or a Eurocurrency Rate, in each case with an applicable margin added to such underlying rate, the margin being based on the more favorable of the Company's debt rating and the ratio of the Company's Consolidated Total Funded Debt to Consolidated EBITDA.
The Base Rate is a fluctuating rate equal to the highest of (i) the Federal Funds Rate plus  of 1%, (ii) the rate of interest in effect by Bank of America as its prime rate and (iii) the Eurocurrency Rate for a one-month interest period plus 1.00%.
The Eurocurrency Rate is measured by reference to an adjusted London inter-bank offered rate, or "LIBOR".
Based on the Company's current debt ratings of BBB by S&P, Baa2 by Moody's and BBB+ by Fitch, the current margin on Base Rate loans is 0.50% and on Eurocurrency Rate loans is 1.50% under the Agreement.
The Company pays a commitment fee on the available unused committed borrowing capacity under the facility. The fee is based on the more favorable of the Company's debt rating and the ratio of the Company's Consolidated Total Funded Debt to Consolidated EDITDA.
The Agreement provides for Swing Line Borrowings of up to $50 million and the issuance of letters of credit in aggregate combined amounts of up to $100 million.
The Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants typical of this type of facility, including: (i) restrictions on the Company's and its domestic subsidiaries' ability to allow liens on their assets, (ii) restrictions on the incurrence of indebtedness, (iii) restrictions on the Borrowers' and certain of their subsidiaries' ability to engage in mergers or engage in certain transactions with affiliates, (iv) the requirement that the Company maintain a Consolidated
Interest Coverage Ratio of no less than 3.50:1.00 as of the end of any fiscal quarter and (v) the requirement that the Company maintain a Consolidated Total Funded Debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio of no more than 3.00:1.00 at the end of the first, second and fourth fiscal quarters, or 3.50:1.00 at the end of the third fiscal quarter.  
The Company's obligations under the Agreement are guaranteed by certain of its domestic subsidiaries.  Hasbro SA's obligations under the Agreement are guaranteed by the Company.
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)  Exhibits
10.1  Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2010, by and among Hasbro, Inc., Hasbro SA, Bank of America, N.A., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., RBS Citizens, N.A. and the other banks party thereto.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 10.1
Published CUSIP Number: [___________]
Page
ARTICLE I.
DEFINITIONS AND ACCOUNTING TERMS
1
1.01.
Defined Terms
1
1.02.
Other Interpretive Provisions
25
1.03.
Accounting Terms
26
1.04.
Rounding
26
1.05.
Exchange Rates; Currency Equivalents
26
1.06.
Additional Alternative Currencies
27
1.07.
Change of Currency
27
1.08.
Times of Day
28
1.09.
Letter of Credit Amounts
28
ARTICLE II.
THE COMMITMENTS AND CREDIT EXTENSIONS
28
2.01.
Committed Loans
28
2.02.
Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Committed Loans
29
2.03.
[Intentionally Omitted]
31
2.04.
Letters of Credit
31
2.05.
Swing Line Loans
40
2.06.
Prepayments
43
2.07.
Termination or Reduction of Commitments
44
2.08.
Repayment of Loans
45
2.09.
Interest
45
2.10.
Fees
46
2.11.
Computation of Interest and Fees
46
2.12.
Evidence of Debt
47
2.13.
Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback
47
2.14.
Sharing of Payments by Lenders
50
2.15.
Designated Borrower
50
2.16.
Increase in Commitments
50
2.17.
Funding
52
2.18.
Cash Collateral
52
Page
2.19.
Defaulting Lenders
53
ARTICLE III.
TAXES, YIELD PROTECTION AND ILLEGALITY
55
3.01.
Taxes
55
3.02.
Illegality
59
3.03.
Inability to Determine Rates
60
3.04.
Increased Costs; Reserves on Eurocurrency Rate Loans
61
3.05.
Compensation for Losses
62
3.06.
Replacement of Lenders
63
3.07.
Matters Applicable to All Requests for Compensation
63
3.08.
Survival
65
ARTICLE IV.
CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO CREDIT EXTENSIONS
65
4.01.
Conditions of Initial Credit Extension
65
4.02.
Conditions to all Credit Extensions
66
ARTICLE V.
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
67
5.01.
Existence, Qualification and Power
67
5.02.
Authorization; No Contravention
67
5.03.
Governmental Authorization; Other Consents
67
5.04.
Binding Effect
67
5.05.
Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect; No Internal Control Event
67
5.06.
Litigation
68
5.07.
No Default
68
5.08.
Ownership of Property; Liens
68
5.09.
Environmental Compliance
68
5.10.
Taxes
68
5.11.
ERISA Compliance
69
5.12.
Subsidiaries
69
5.13.
Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act
69
Page
5.14.
Disclosure
70
5.15.
Compliance with Laws
70
5.16.
Foreign Assets Control Regulations, Etc
70
ARTICLE VI.
AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS
70
6.01.
Financial Statements
70
6.02.
Certificates; Other Information
71
6.03.
Notices
72
6.04.
Payment of Obligations
73
6.05.
Preservation of Existence, Etc
73
6.06.
Maintenance of Properties
73
6.07.
Maintenance of Insurance
74
6.08.
Compliance with Laws
74
6.09.
Books and Records
74
6.10.
Inspection Rights
74
6.11.
Use of Proceeds
74
6.12.
Additional Subsidiary Guarantors
74
ARTICLE VII.
NEGATIVE COVENANTS
75
7.01.
Liens
75
7.02.
Indebtedness
77
7.03.
Fundamental Changes
78
7.04.
Transactions with Affiliates
79
7.05.
Financial Covenants
79
ARTICLE VIII.
EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
80
8.01.
Events of Default
80
8.02.
Remedies Upon Event of Default
82
8.03.
Application of Funds
82
ARTICLE IX.
AGENT
83
9.01.
Appointment and Authority
83
Page
9.02.
Rights as a Lender
83
9.03.
Exculpatory Provisions
84
9.04.
Reliance by Administrative Agent
85
9.05.
Delegation of Duties
85
9.06.
Resignation of Administrative Agent
85
9.07.
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
86
9.08.
No Other Duties, Etc
86
9.09.
Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
86
9.10.
Guaranty Matters
87
ARTICLE X.
MISCELLANEOUS
87
10.01.
Amendments, Etc
87
10.02.
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
89
10.03.
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
91
10.04.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
92
10.05.
Payments Set Aside
94
10.06.
Successors and Assigns
95
10.07.
Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
101
10.08.
Right of Setoff
102
10.09.
Interest Rate Limitation
102
10.10.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
103
10.11.
Survival of Representations and Warranties
103
10.12.
Severability
103
10.13.
Replacement of Lenders
103
10.14.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
104
10.15.
Waiver of Jury Trial
105
10.16.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
105
10.17.
USA PATRIOT Act Notice
106
10.18.
Judgment Currency
106
SCHEDULES
1.01
Existing Letters of Credit
1.02
Mandatory Cost Formulae
1.03
Indicative Terms of Permitted Receivables Transactions
2.01
Commitments and Applicable Percentages
5.06(b)
Litigation
5.08
Ownership of Property; Liens
5.09
Environmental Matters
5.10
Taxes
5.12
Subsidiaries; Other Equity Investments
5.15
Compliance With Laws
6.08
Compliance With Laws
7.01(c)
Certain Liens
7.02
Existing Indebtedness
10.02
Administrative Agent's Office; Certain Addresses for Notices
10.06
Processing and Recordation Fees
EXHIBITS
Form of
A
Committed Loan Notice
B
Swing Line Loan Notice
C-1
Note
C-2
Swing Line Note
D
Compliance Certificate
E
Assignment and Assumption
F
Company Guaranty
G
Subsidiary Guaranty
I-1
Opinion of Tarrant Sibley, Esq., Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of the Company
I-2
Opinion of Alexander Emrich, Legal Director of Hasbro SA
I-3
Opinion of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, special New York counsel to the Loan Parties
J
Supplement
This REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT ("") is entered into as of December 16, 2010,among HASBRO, INC., a Rhode Island corporation (the ""), HASBRO SA, a corporation organized under the laws of Switzerland and wholly owned indirect subsidiary of the Company (the "" and, together with the Company, the "" and, each a ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
Agreement
Company
Designated Borrower
Borrowers
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
The Borrowers have requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
1.01.
.  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Defined Terms
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts from time to time; and, with respect to the Company and its Domestic Subsidiaries, such term shall include all such Accounts of such Persons, whether now existing or existing in the future, including, without limitation, (a) all accounts receivable of such Person, including, without limitation, all accounts created by or arising from all of such Person's sales of goods or rendition of services made under any of its trade names, or through any of its divisions, (b) all unpaid rights of such Person (including rescission, replevin, reclamation and stopping in transit) relating to the foregoing or arising therefrom, (c) all rights to any goods represented by any of the foregoing, including, without limitation, returned or re possessed goods, (d) all reserves and credit balances held by such Person with respect to any such accounts receivable of any purchaser of goods or services or other Person obligated to make payment to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any Receivables Subsidiaries and the Foreign Subsidiaries) in respect of a purchase of such goods or services, (e) all letters of credit, guarantees or collateral for any of the foregoing and (f) all insurance policies or rights relating to any of the foregoing.
Accounts
"" has the meaning specified in .
Additional Lender
Section 2.16
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
"" means, with respect to any currency, the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on with respect to such currency, or such other address or account with respect to such currency as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Company and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means the Commitments of all the Lenders (including any Defaulting Lenders).
Aggregate Commitments
"" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
"" means each of Australian Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Euro,  New Zealand Dollars, Sterling, and each other currency (other than Dollars) that is approved in accordance with .
Alternative Currency
Section 1.06
"" means, at any time, with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the equivalent amount thereof in the applicable Alternative Currency as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of such Alternative Currency with Dollars.
Alternative Currency Equivalent
"" means with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment at such time, subject to adjustment as provided in .  If the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments.  The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lend er becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Section 2.19
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
"" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the more favorable to the Borrowers of (a) the ratio of Total Funded Debt to Consolidated EBITDA and (b) the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
"" means, as of any date of determination, the rating asdetermined by at least two of Fitch, S&P and Moody's (collectively, the "") of the Company's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt; that (a) if the respective Debt Ratings issued by the foregoing rating agencies differ by one level, then the Pricing Level for the higher (or highest) of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 6 being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 1 being the lowest); and (b) if there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, then the Pricing Level that is one level higher than the Pricing Level of the lower (or lowest) Debt Rating shall apply.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
provided
Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the Debt Rating specified in the certificate delivered pursuant to .  Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate (x) resulting from a change in the Debt Rating shall be effective, in the case of an upgrade, during the period commencing on the earlier of the date of the public announcement thereof or delivery by the Company to the Administrative Agent of notice thereof pursuant to and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change and, in the case of a downgrade, during the period commencing on the earlier of the date of the public announcement thereof or delivery by the Company to the Administrative Agent of notice
Section 4.01(a)(v)
Section 6.03(f)
thereof and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change and (y) resulting from a change in the ratio of Total Funded Debt to Consolidated EBITDA shall be effective upon the Administrative Agent's receipt of a Compliance Certificate delivered pursuant to evidencing such change.
Section 6.02(a)
 "" means, with respect to any borrowings and payments in any Alternative Currency, the local time in the place of settlement for such Alternative Currency as may be determined in good faith by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to be necessary for timely settlement on the relevant date in accordance with normal banking procedures in the place of payment.
Applicable Time
"" means any Fund (i) that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender and (ii) that has a credit rating equal to or higher than that of the related Lender.
Approved Fund
 "" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by , and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent and the Company.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit E
"" means, at any time, the amount of obligations outstanding at such time under the legal documents entered into as part of a Permitted Receivables Securitization Facility on any date of determination that would be characterized as principal if such Permitted Receivables Securitization Facility were structured as a secured lending transaction rather than as a purchase, less (i) any escrowed or pledged cash proceeds which effectively secure, or are required to be maintained as reserves by the applicable Receivables Subsidiary for, the Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries in respect of, or the obligations of the Company and its Subsidiaries under, such Permitted Receivables Securitization Facility, (ii) reasonable attorneys' fees, accountants' fees, brokerage consultant and other customary fees, underwriting commission s and other reasonable fees and expenses actually incurred in connection with such Permitted Receivables Securitization Facility and (iii) any taxes paid or reasonably estimated to be payable as a result thereof.
Attributable Indebtedness
"" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 27, 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Company and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
"" means the lawful currency of Australia.
Australian Dollars
"" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to
Availability Period
Section 2.07
make Loans and of the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions pursuant to .
Section 8.02
"" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1%, (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate," and (c) the Eurocurrency Rate for a one-month Interest Period plus 1.00%.  The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate.  Any change in such prime rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
"" means a Committed Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Committed Loan
"" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.  All Base Rate Loans shall be denominated in Dollars.
Base Rate Loan
"" and "" each has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
Borrowers
"" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
"" means a Committed Borrowing or a Swing Line Borrowing, as the context may require.
Borrowing
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, Boston, Massachusetts and New York, New York and:
Business Day
(a)
if such day relates to any Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Dollars, means a London Banking Day;
(b)
if such day relates to any Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Euro, means a TARGET Day;
(c)
if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in the relevant currency are conducted by and between banks in the London or other applicable offshore interbank market for such currency; and
(d)
if such day relates to any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in a currency other than Dollars or Euro in respect of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, or any other dealings in any currency other than Dollars or Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan
(other than any interest rate settings), means any such day on which banks are open for foreign exchange business in the principal financial center of the country of such currency.
"" and "" means the lawful currency of Canada.
Canadian Dollars
C$
"" means any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all warrants, rights or options to purchase any of the foregoing.
Capital Stock
""  means leases under which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is the lessee or obligor, the discounted future rental payment obligations under which are required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee or obligor in accordance with GAAP.
Capitalized Leases
"" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender (as applicable) and the Lenders, as collateral for L/C Obligations, Obligations in respect of Swing Line Loans, or obligations of Lenders to fund participations in respect of either thereof (as the context may require), cash or deposit account balances or, if the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender benefitting from such collateral shall agree in its sole discretion, other credit support, in each case pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to (a) the Administrative Agent and (b) the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender (as applicable). "Cash Collateral" shall have a meaning correlative to the foregoing and shall include the proceeds of such cash collateral and other credit support.
Cash Collateralize
"" means, as to any Lender, the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement (or, if later, the date such Lender becomes a Lender), of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty applicable to such Lender, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty applicable to such Lender or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) compliance by such Lender with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority adopted or issued after the date of this Agreement.
Change in Law
"" means an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
(a)
any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire, whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time (such right, an "")), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% or more of the equity securities of the Company entitled to vote for members of the board of directo rs or equivalent governing body of the Company on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right); or
option right
(b)
during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of the Company cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body.
"" the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
"" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to (a) make Committed Loans to the Borrowers pursuant to , (b) purchase participations in L/C Obligations, and (c) purchase participations in Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the Dollar amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Loans of the same Type, in the same currency and, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Committed Borrowing
Section 2.01
"" has the meaning specified in .
Committed Loan
Section 2.01
"" means a notice of (a) a Committed Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Committed Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Company
"" means the Company Guaranty made by the Company in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, substantially in the form of .
Company Guaranty
Exhibit F
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit D
"" means, with respect to any particular fiscal period, the amount equal to (a) Consolidated Operating Profit (or Loss) for such period, (b) in each case without duplication, and to the extent deducted in calculating Consolidated Operating Profit (or Loss) for such period, (i) depreciation and amortization of the Company and its Subsidiaries, (ii) other non-cash charges of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and (iii) extraordinary losses of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and (c) to the extent included in Consolidated Operating
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
minus
Profit (or Loss) for such period, extraordinary gains of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period, all determined in accordance with GAAP.
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA (b) Consolidated Total Interest Expense, in each case for the most recently completed Measurement Period.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
to
 
"" means an amount equal to (a) the total assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis minus (b) the total liabilities of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Worth
"" means the consolidated operating profit (or loss) of the Company and its Subsidiaries identified as such on the Company's income statement for any period, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Operating Profit (or Loss)
"" means, as of any date of determination, with respect to the Company and its Subsidiaries, the amount equal to, without duplication, (a) the aggregate amount of Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, relating to (i) the borrowing of money or the obtaining of credit, (ii) the deferred purchase price of assets (other than trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of business), (iii) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation or any Capitalized Leases, (iv) the face amount of all letters of credit outstanding, (v) any Recourse Obligations, (b) the aggregate amount of Indebtedness of the type referred to in clause (a) of another Person (other than the Company or a Subsidiary thereof) guaranteed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (c) the Attributable Ind ebtedness.  In determining under clause (a) of this definition the Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries under or in respect of any Permitted Receivables Securitization Facility or under clause (c) of this definition the Attributable Indebtedness in respect of any Permitted Receivables Securitization Facility, such Indebtedness or amount shall be reduced by any escrowed or pledged cash proceeds which effectively secure such Indebtedness or the obligations of the Company or any such Subsidiary under such Permitted Receivables Securitization Facility.
Consolidated Total Funded Debt
plus
plus
"" means, for any period, the aggregate amount of interest expense of the Company and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP for such period.
Consolidated Total Interest Expense
"" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any material written agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.  "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means each of the following: (a) a Borrowing and (b) an L/C Credit Extension.
Credit Extension
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Applicable Rate."
Debt Rating
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
"" means an interest rate equal to 2.0% plus the rate that otherwise would be applicable (or if no rate is applicable, the Base Rate plus 2.0% per annum).
Default Rate
"" means, subject to , any Lender that, as determined by the Administrative Agent, (a) has failed to perform any of its funding obligations hereunder,  including in respect of its Loans or participations in respect of Letters of Credit or Swing Line Loans, within three Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, unless such Lender has notified the Agent and the Borrower that it has determined that a condition precedent to its obligation to fund which it specifically identifies has not been met, (b) has notified the Company and the Administrative Agent that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations or has made a public statement to that effect with respect to its funding obligations hereunder or under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, wit hin three Business Days after request by the Administrative Agent, to confirm in a manner satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that it will comply with its funding obligations, or (d) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (i) become the subject of a proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, (ii) had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or a custodian appointed for it, or (iii) taken any action in furtherance of, or indicated its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment referenced in clause (i) or (ii) of this sentence; that a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a Governmental Authority.
Defaulting Lender
Section 2.19(b)
provided
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Designated Borrower
"" or "" means the sale, transfer, lease or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of any property by any Person.
Disposition
Dispose
"" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
"" means, at any time, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, such amount, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in any Alternative Currency, the equivalent amount thereof in Dollars as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of Dollars with such Alternative Currency.
Dollar Equivalent
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under and (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
"" means the economic and monetary union in accordance with the Treaty of Rome 1957, as amended.
EMU
"" means the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency.
EMU Legislation
"" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders or decrees relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Company, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement (other than liabilities with respect to insurance premiums) pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Company within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) the withdrawal of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which such entity was a "substantial employer" as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Pension Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041 or 4041A of ERISA; (e) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Pension Plan; (f) any event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan; (g) the determination that any Pension Plan is considered an at-risk plan or a plan in endangered or critical status within the meaning of Sections 430, 431 and 432 of the Code or Sections 303, 304 and 305 of ERISA; or (h) the imposition of any liability under
ERISA Event
Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Company or any ERISA Affiliate.
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of the Participating Member States introduced in accordance with the EMU Legislation.
Euro
EUR
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of Eurocurrency Rate.
Eurocurrency Base Rate
"" means for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula:
Eurocurrency Rate
Where,
"" means, for such Interest Period, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or a similar commercially available rate publishing service providing quotations of BBA LIBOR reasonably selected by the Administrative Agent) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two London Banking Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for deposits in the relevant currency (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period.  If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurocurrency Base Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum equal to the rate at which deposits in the relevant currency for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in Same Day Funds in the approximate amount of the Eurocurrency Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch (or other appropriate Bank of America branch or Affiliate) to major banks in the London or other appropriate offshore interbank market for such currency at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two London Banking Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Base Rate
BBA LIBOR
"" means, for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under regulations issued from time to time by the FRB for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency liabilities").  The Eurocurrency Rate for each outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage.
Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage
The determination of the Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage and the Eurocurrency Base Rate by Administrative Agent shall be conclusive in the absence of demonstrable error.
"" means a Committed Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurocurrency Rate.  Eurocurrency Rate Loans may be denominated in Dollars or in an Alternative Currency.  All Committed Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency must be Eurocurrency Rate Loans.
Eurocurrency Rate Loan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of any Borrower hereunder, (a) Taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income, net profit or net worth (however denominated), and franchise or capital Taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the Laws of which such recipient (or, in the case of a pass-through entity, any of its beneficial owners) is organized or is (or is deemed to be) doing business or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, or by any jurisdiction as a result of a present or former connection between such recipient and the ju risdiction imposing such tax (or any political subdivision thereof), other than any such connection arising solely from such recipient having executed, delivered or performed its obligations or received a payment under, or enforced, this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (b) any branch profit taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which such Borrower is located or is (or is deemed to be) doing business, (c) any backup withholding tax that is required by the Code to be withheld from amounts payable to a Lender because such Lender has failed to comply with , and (d) except as provided in the following sentence, in the case of a Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Company under ), any withholding Tax that (i) is required to be imposed on amounts payable to such Lender pursuant to the Laws in force at the time such Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office), (ii) is at tributable to such Lender's (or, in the case of a pass-through entity, any of its beneficial owners') failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , or (iii) is imposed pursuant to FATCA, except to the extent that such Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the applicable Borrower with respect to such withholding Tax pursuant to .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this definition, "Excluded Taxes" shall not include any withholding tax imposed at any time on payments made by or on behalf of a Foreign Obligor to any Lender hereunder or under any other Loan Document, that such Lender shall have complied with , and , further, that such Lender acquired its interest in the relevant Loan in a manner compliant with .
Excluded Taxes
Section 3.01(e)
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
provided
Section 3.01(e)
provided
Section 10.06( b)(vii)
"" means that certain Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of June 23, 2006 (as amended and in effect from time to time) by and among the Company, the Designated Borrower, the lenders party thereto, the Administrative Agent, and certain other parties thereto.
Existing Credit Agreement
"" means those letters of credit listed on .
Existing Letters of Credit
Schedule
1.01
"" means sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code and any regulations (including temporary regulations) that are issued thereunder or official governmental interpretations thereof.
FATCA
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
"" means, collectively, (i) that certain letter agreement, dated November 16, 2010, among the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, (ii) that certain letter agreement, dated November 16, 2010, among the Borrowers and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., and (iii) that certain letter agreement, dated November 16, 2010, among the Borrowers and RBS Citizens, N.A.
Fee Letters
"" means FitchRatings, or its successors.
Fitch
"" means, with respect to any Borrower, any Lender that is organized under the Laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which such Borrower is resident for tax purposes (including such a Lender when acting in the capacity of the L/C Issuer).  For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means a Loan Party that is a Foreign Subsidiary.
Foreign Obligor
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States, a State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Subsidiary
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
"" means, at any time there is a Defaulting Lender, (a) with respect to the L/C Issuer, such Defaulting Lender's Applicable Percentage of the outstanding L/C Obligations other than L/C Obligations as to which such Defaulting Lender's participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or Cash Collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof, and (b) with respect to the Swing Line Lender, such Defaulting Lender's Applicable Percentage of Swing Line Loans other than Swing Line Loans as to which such Defaulting Lender's participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or Cash Collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof.
Fronting Exposure
 "" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States consistent with the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American
GAAP
Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
"" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
"" has the meaning specified in .
Granting Lender
Section 10.06(h)
"" means the Company Guaranty and the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Guaranties
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" as applied to any Person, means, without duplication:
Indebtedness
(a)
every obligation of such Person to repay money borrowed,
(b)
every obligation of such Person for principal evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, including obligations incurred in connection with the acquisition of property, assets or businesses,
(c)
every reimbursement obligation of such Person with respect to letters of credit, bankers' acceptances or similar facilities issued for the account of such Person,
(d)
every obligation of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property or services (including securities repurchase agreements but excluding (i) trade accounts payable or accrued liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business and (ii) earnout obligations in respect of assets or businesses acquired prior to the Closing Date,
(e)
every obligation of such Person under any Capitalized Lease,
(f)
every obligation of such Person under any Synthetic Lease Obligation,
(g)
Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent that such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent that the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor and such terms are enforceable under applicable law,
(h)
every obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing, or having the economic effect of guaranteeing or otherwise acting as surety for, any obligation of a type described in any of clauses (a) through (h) (the "") of another Person (the ""), in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including, without limitation, any such obligation of such Person (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment of such primary obligation, (ii) to purchase property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the payment of such primary obligation, or (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay su ch primary obligation.
primary obligation
primary obligor
The "" or "" of any Indebtedness at any time of determination represented by (w) any Indebtedness, issued at a price that is less than the principal amount at maturity thereof, shall be the amount of the liability in respect thereof determined in accordance with GAAP, (x) any Capitalized Lease shall be the discounted aggregate rental obligations under such Capitalized Lease required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee in accordance with GAAP and (y) any Synthetic Lease shall be the stipulated loss value, termination value or other equivalent amount.
amount
principal amount
"" means Taxes imposed on any payment by the Borrowers on account of any Obligation hereunder or under any other Loan Document other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
"" means Infogrames Entertainment S.A., a societ anonyme organized under the laws of France, and any successor thereof.
Infogrames
"" has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 10.07
"" means, (a) as to any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan (including a Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
"" means, as to each Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three, or six months, or, to the extent available to all of the Lenders, nine or twelve months thereafter, as selected by the Company in its Committed Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
provided
(i)
any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
(ii)
any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
(iii)
no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
ISP
"" means with respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter of Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by the L/C Issuer and the Company (or any Subsidiary) or in favor the L/C Issuer and relating to such Letter of Credit.
Issuer Documents
"" means, collectively, all applicable international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's funding of its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.  All L/C Advances shall be denominated in Dollars.
L/C Advance
"" means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date when made or refinanced as a Committed Borrowing. All L/C Borrowings shall be denominated in Dollars.
L/C Borrowing
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the increase of the amount thereof.
L/C Credit Extension
"" means Bank of America or any other Lender that agrees to act as an L/C Issuer, in each case in its capacity as issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, or any successor issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder.
L/C Issuer
"" means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate amount available to be drawn under all outstanding Letters of Credit the aggregate of all Unreimbursed Amounts, including all L/C Borrowings.  Upon an L/C Borrowing, the Unreimbursed Amount that is covered by such L/C Borrowing shall be deemed to be represented by, and not in addition to, such L/C Borrowing.  For purposes of computing the amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with .  For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of
L/C Obligations
plus
Section 1.09
Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "outstanding" in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
"" means, collectively, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and RBS Citizens, N.A., each in their capacity as co-lead arranger and co-book runner.
Lead Arrangers
 "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes the Swing Line Lender.
Lender
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire as provided to the Company, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Company and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
"" means any letter of credit issued hereunder and shall include the Existing Letters of Credit.  A Letter of Credit may be a commercial letter of credit or a standby letter of credit.  Letters of Credit may be issued in Dollars or in an Alternative Currency.
Letter of Credit
"" means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the form from time to time in use by the L/C Issuer.
Letter of Credit Application
"" means the day that is seven days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Letter of Credit Expiration Date
"" has the meaning specified in .
Letter of Credit Fee
Section 2.04(i)
"" means an amount equal to$100,000,000.  The Letter of Credit Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Letter of Credit Sublimit
"" means any lien, mortgage, pledge, security interest, charge or encumbrance of any kind (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement and any agreement to provide a security interest).
Lien
"" means an extension of credit by a Lender to a Borrower under in the form of a Committed Loan or a Swing Line Loan.
Loan
ARTICLE II
"" means this Agreement, each Note, the Guaranties, the Fee Letters and any agreement creating or perfecting rights in Cash Collateral pursuant to the provisions of of this Agreement.
Loan Documents
Section 2.18
"" means, collectively, the Company, each Subsidiary Guarantor and the Designated Borrower.
Loan Parties
"" means any day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
London Banking Day
"" means, with respect to any period, the percentage rate per annum determined in accordance with .
Mandatory Cost
Schedule 1.02
"" means with respect to any event or occurrence of whatever nature (including any adverse determination in any litigation, arbitration or governmental investigation or proceeding), (a) a material adverse effect on  the business, assets, operations or financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; (b) a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company individually or the Loan Parties and their Significant Subsidiaries taken as a whole, to perform its or their respective Obligations (as the case may be) under the Loan Documents; or (c) any material impairment of (i) the validity, binding effect or enforceability of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or (ii) the rights, remedies or benefits available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender under the Loan Documents.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means December 16, 2014; , , that if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Maturity Date
provided
however
"" means, at any date of determination, the most recently completed four fiscal quarters of the Company for which financial statements have been or are required to be delivered pursuant to or .
Measurement Period
Section 6.01(a)
6.01(b)
"" means, with respect to Borrowings made in (i) Dollars, a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (ii) Australian Dollars, a principal amount of 2,000,000 AUD or a whole multiple of 500,000 AUD in excess thereof, (iii) Canadian Dollars, a principal amount of C$2,000,000 or a whole multiple of C$500,000 in excess thereof, (iv) Euros, a principal amount of 4,000,000 Euros or a whole multiple of 1,000,000 Euros in excess thereof, (v) New Zealand Dollars, a principal amount of 2,000,000 NZD or a whole multiple of 500,000 NZD in excess thereof, (vi) Sterling, a principal amount of 3,000,000 or a whole multiple of 500,000 in excess thereof and (vii) any other Alternative Currency approved under hereof, the amount proposed by the Administrative Agent and appro ved by the Lenders.
Minimum Principal Amount
Section 1.06
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" means any employee benefit plan of the type defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means a Plan which has two or more contributing sponsors (including the Company or any ERISA Affiliate) at least two of whom are not under common control, as defined in Section 4064 of ERISA.
Multiple Employer Plan
"" means the lawful currency of New Zealand.
New Zealand Dollars
"" means Indebtedness which (a) is not senior to the Obligations, (b) does not have any priority of payment over the Obligations and (c) is not secured by Liens on any of the Company's or any Subsidiary's assets.
Non-Priority Indebtedness
"" means a promissory note made by a Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender to such Borrower, substantially in the form of or , as applicable.
Note
Exhibit C-1
Exhibit C-2
"" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities and obligations of any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan or Letter of Credit, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
"" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument or filing with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
"" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
"" means (i) with respect to Committed Loans on any date, the Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such Committed Loans occurring on such date; (ii) with respect to Swing Line Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such Swing Line Loans occurring on such date; and (iii) with respect to any L/C Obligations on any date, the Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate outstanding amount of such L/C Obligations on such date after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the L/C Obligations as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements by the Co mpany of Unreimbursed Amounts.
Outstanding Amount
"" means, for any day, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the greater of (i) the Federal Funds Rate and (ii) an overnight rate determined by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, or the Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in an Alternative Currency, the rate of interest per annum at which overnight deposits in the applicable Alternative Currency, in an amount approximately equal to the amount with respect to which such rate is being determined, would be offered for such day by a branch or Affiliate of Bank of America in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency to major banks in such interbank market; in each case, plus any administrative,
Overnight Rate
processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender in connection with the foregoing.
"" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
"" means each state so described in any EMU Legislation.
Participating Member State
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
"Act" means the Pension Protection Act of 2006.
Pension
"" means the rules of the Code and ERISA regarding minimum required contributions (including any installment payment thereof) to Pension Plans and set forth in, with respect to plan years ending prior to the effective date of the Pension Act, Section 412 of the Code and Section 302 of ERISA, each as in effect prior to the Pension Act and, thereafter, Section 412, 430, 431, 432 and 436 of the Code and Sections 302, 303, 304 and 305 of ERISA.
Pension Funding Rules
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (including a Multiple Employer Plan or a Multiemployer Plan) that is maintained or is contributed to by the Company and any ERISA Affiliate and is either covered by Title IV of ERISA or is subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code.
Pension Plan
"" means any transaction or series of related transactions providing for the financing of any Receivables; that any such transaction shall be consummated on terms that include terms substantially as described on or as the Required Lenders may otherwise consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.
Permitted Receivables Securitization Facility
provided
Schedule 1.03
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA (including a Pension Plan), maintained for employees of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate or any such Plan to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate is required to contribute on behalf of any of its employees and not excluded under Section 4 of ERISA.
Plan
 "" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
"" means, with respect to compliance with any test or covenant for any period (including any Measurement Period) hereunder, compliance with such test or covenant after giving effect to any disposition or acquisition, giving effect to increases or (as the case may be) decreases in EBITDA based on the historical financial results of such disposed or acquired entity and using, for purposes of determining such compliance with respect to the Company and its Subsidiaries, the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries as if such disposition or acquisition had been consummated at the commencement of such period.
Pro Forma Basis
"" means, in relation to any Borrower that is organized under the laws of Switzerland, a Lender which is a financial institution which is duly licensed as a bank under the law of its jurisdiction of incorporation and which pursues genuine banking activities in the
Qualifying Bank
jurisdiction of its lending office as referred to under the respective regulations of the Swiss Federal Tax Administration, in particular under Section 3.b. of Notes S-02.122.1 as well as under Section I.232 of Notes S-02.128.
"" means all Accounts and accounts receivable of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, any Accounts and accounts receivable constituting or evidenced by chattel paper, instruments or general intangibles, and all proceeds thereof and rights (contractual and other) and collateral for such Accounts and accounts receivable.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Receivables shall not include any rights or interests in intellectual property of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
Receivables
"" means any special purpose, bankruptcy-remote corporation, limited liability company, trust or other entity established and majority owned by the Company or a Subsidiary that purchases, receives contributions of, or receives financing secured by, Receivables generated by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
Receivables Subsidiary
"" of a Person means all sales with recourse by such Person of (i) accounts or general intangibles for money due or to become due, (ii) chattel paper, instruments or documents creating or evidencing a right to payment of money or (iii) other receivables (collectively ""), whether pursuant to a purchase facility or otherwise, other than in connection with the disposition of the business operations of such Person relating thereto or a disposition of defaulted receivables for collection and not as a financing arrangement, and together with any obligation of such Person to pay any discount, interest, fees, indemnities, penalties, recourse, expenses or other amounts in connection therewith.  The outstanding amount of any Recourse Obligation shall be the portion of the principal investment of the purchaser thereof (other than the Company or a Significant Subsidiary) as to which recourse to such Person exists, in any event excluding amounts representative of yield and interest earned on such investment.
Recourse Obligations
receivables
"" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived under regulations in effect on the original date of this Agreement.
Reportable Event
"" means (a) with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Committed Loans, a Committed Loan Notice, (b) with respect to an L/C Credit Extension, a Letter of Credit Application, and (c) with respect to a Swing Line Loan, a Swing Line Loan Notice.
Request for Credit Extension
"" means, as of any date, the Lenders whose Aggregate Commitments constitute more than fifty percent (50%) of the Total Commitment, , that if at the time Required Lenders is being determined, the Total Commitment has been terminated, the Required Lenders shall be the Lenders holding more than fifty percent (50%) of the aggregate outstanding
Required Lenders
provided
principal amount of the Loans on such date, that the portion of the Aggregate Commitments of, and the portion of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Loans held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
provided
further
"" means the chief executive officer, chief operating officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or controller of a Loan Party.  Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
"" means (a) with respect to any Loan, each of the following:  (i) each date of a Borrowing of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency, (ii) each date of a continuation of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency pursuant to , and (iii) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably determine or the Required Lenders shall reasonably require; and (b) with respect to any Letter of Credit, each of the following:  (i) each date of issuance of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, (ii) each date of an amendment of any such Letter of Credit having the effect of increasing the amount thereof, (iii) each date of any payment by the L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, and (iv) such addi tional dates as the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer shall reasonably determine or the Required Lenders shall reasonably require.
Revaluation Date
Section 2.02
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
"" means (a) with respect to disbursements and payments in Dollars, immediately available funds, and (b) with respect to disbursements and payments in an Alternative Currency, same day or other funds as may be determined in good faith by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to be customary in the place of disbursement or payment for the settlement of international banking transactions in the relevant Alternative Currency.
Same Day Funds
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
"" means (a) the Designated Borrower, (b) any other Subsidiary of the Company (other than any Receivables Subsidiary), which, either alone or together with the Subsidiaries of such Subsidiary, meets either of the following conditions:
Significant Subsidiary
(i)
the investments of the Company and its Subsidiaries in, or their proportionate share (based on their equity interests) of the book value of the total assets (after intercompany eliminations) of, the Subsidiary in question exceed 10% of the book value of the total assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, or
(ii)
the equity of the Company and its Subsidiaries in the revenues of the Subsidiary in question exceeds 10% of the revenues from continuing operations of the
Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis for the Company's most recent fiscal year; or
(b)
Any other Subsidiary of the Company designated as a "" by the Company in a written notice to the Administrative Agent.
Significant Subsidiary
"" has the meaning specified in .
SPC
Section 10.06(h)
"" means at any time an Alternative Currency, other than Australian Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Euros, Sterling or any other currency of a country that is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development at such time located in North America, Europe or Australia.
Special Notice Currency
"" for a currency means the rate determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as applicable, to be the rate quoted by the Person acting in such capacity as the spot rate for the purchase by such Person of such currency with another currency through its principal foreign exchange trading office at approximately 11:00 a.m. on the date two Business Days prior to the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made; that the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer may obtain such spot rate from another financial institution designated by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer if the Person acting in such capacity does not have as of the date of determination a spot buying rate for any such currency; and that the L/C Issuer may use such spot rate quoted on the date as of which t he foreign exchange computation is made in the case of any Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency.
Spot Rate
provided
provided
further
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of the United Kingdom.
Sterling
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of Capital Stock having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than Capital Stock having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned directly or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries by such Person.  Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company.
Subsidiary
"" means (i) following the delivery of all documentation required pursuant to , Hasbro International, Inc. and (ii) any other Subsidiary Guarantors that may be added from time to time pursuant to .
Subsidiary Guarantors
Section 6.12(b)
Section 6.12
"" means the Subsidiary Guaranty made by the Subsidiary Guarantors in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, substantially in the form of .
Subsidiary Guaranty
Exhibit G
"" means the revolving credit facility made available by the Swing Line Lender pursuant to .
Swing Line
Section 2.05
"" means a borrowing of a Swing Line Loan pursuant to .
Swing Line Borrowing
Section 2.05
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as provider of Swing Line Loans, or any successor swing line lender hereunder.
Swing Line Lender
"" has the meaning specified in .
Swing Line Loan
Section 2.05(a)
"" means a notice of a Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Swing Line Loan Notice
Section 2.05(b)
Exhibit B
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $50,000,000 and (b) the Aggregate Commitments.  The Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Swing Line Sublimit
"" means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).  
Synthetic Lease Obligation
"" means any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) payment system (or, if such payment system ceases to be operative, such other payment system (if any) reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent to be a suitable replacement) is open for the settlement of payments in Euro.
TARGET Day
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings (including backup withholding), assessments, or fees or other charges related thereto imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" means$75,000,000.
Threshold Amount
 "" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans and all L/C Obligations.
Total Outstandings
"" means, with respect to a Committed Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurocurrency Rate Loan.
Type
"" means the excess of a Pension Plan's benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plan's assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
Unfunded Pension Liability
"" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
"" has the meaning specified in .  Upon an L/C Borrowing, the Unreimbursed Amount that is covered by such L/C Borrowing shall be deemed to be represented by, and not in addition to, such L/C Borrowing.
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.04(c)(i))
1.02.
.  With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
Other Interpretive Provisions
(a)
The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined.  Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms.  The words "," "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation."  The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "."  Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, (ii) the words "", "," "" and "," and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iii) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules unless otherwise specified shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, and (iv) any reference to any Law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law.
include
includes
including
will
shall
here to
herein
hereof
hereunder
(b)
In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ";" the words "" and "" each mean ";" and the word "" means "."
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
(c)
Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
1.03.
.  (a) .  All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP as in effect from time to time, applied on a basis consistent (except for changes concurred in by the Company's independent public accountants) with the most recent audited consolidated financial statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to or, prior to such delivery, the Audited Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.  
Accounting Terms
Generally
Section 6.01
except
(b)
.  If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Company or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Company shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Company shall provide to the Administrative Agent a written reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP; that such reconcil iation shall be required to be provided only for the four fiscal quarters following such change.
Changes in GAAP
provided
that
provided
further
1.04.
.  Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
Rounding
1.05.
.  (a) The Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as applicable, shall determine the Spot Rates as of each Revaluation Date to be used for calculating Dollar Equivalent amounts of Credit Extensions and Outstanding Amounts denominated in Alternative Currencies.  Such Spot Rates shall become effective as of such Revaluation Date and shall be the Spot Rates employed in calculating Dollar Equivalent amounts of Credit Extensions and Outstanding Amounts until the next Revaluation Date to occur.  Except as otherwise provided herein, the applicable amount of any currency (other than Dollars) for purposes of the Loan Documents shall be the Dollar Equivalent thereof.
Exchange Rates; Currency Equivalents
(b)
Wherever in this Agreement in connection with a Committed Borrowing, conversion, continuation or prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or the issuance, amendment or extension of a Letter of Credit, an amount, such as a required minimum or multiple amount, is expressed in Dollars, but such Committed Borrowing, Eurocurrency Rate Loan or Letter of Credit is denominated in an Alternative Currency, such amount shall be the relevant Alternative Currency Equivalent of such Dollar amount (rounded to the nearest unit of such Alternative Currency, with 0.0001 of a unit being rounded upward), as determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be.
1.06.
.(a)The Company may from time to time request that Eurocurrency Rate Loans be made and/or Letters of Credit be issued in a currency other than those specifically listed in the definition of "Alternative Currency;" that such requested currency is a lawful currency (other than Dollars) that is readily available and freely transferable and convertible into Dollars.  In the case of any such request with respect to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, including specification by the Administrative Agent of a reasonable Minimum Principal Amount for such Alternative Currency; and in the case of any such request with respect to the issuance of Letters of Credit, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer.
Additional Alternative Currencies
 
provided
(b)
Any such request shall be made to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m., ten Business Days prior to the date of the desired Credit Extension (or such other time or date as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent and, in the case of any such request pertaining to Letters of Credit, the L/C Issuer, in its or their sole discretion).  In the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof and of the proposed Minimum Principal Amount therefor; and in the case of any such request pertaining to Letters of Credit, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the L/C Issuer thereof.  Each Lender (in the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Loans) or the L/C Issuer (in the case of a request pertaining to Letters of Credit) shall notify the Administrati ve Agent, not later than 11:00 a.m., five Business Days after receipt of such request whether it consents, in its sole discretion, to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans or the issuance of Letters of Credit, as the case may be, in such requested currency.
(c)
Any failure by a Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to respond to such request within the time period specified in the preceding sentence shall be deemed to be a refusal by such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to permit Eurocurrency Rate Loans to be made or Letters of Credit to be issued in such requested currency.  If the Administrative Agent and all the Lenders consent to making Eurocurrency Rate Loans in such requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Company and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any Committed Borrowings of Eurocurrency Rate Loans; and if the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer consent to the issuance of Letters of Credit in such requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Company and such currenc y shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any Letter of Credit issuances. If the Administrative Agent shall fail to obtain consent to any request for an additional currency under this , the Administrative Agent shall promptly so notify the Company.  Any specified currency of an Existing Letter of Credit that is neither Dollars nor one of the Alternative Currencies specifically listed in the definition of "Alternative Currency" shall be deemed an Alternative Currency with respect to such Existing Letter of Credit only.
Section 1.06
1.07.
.(a)Each obligation of the Borrowers to make a payment denominated in the national currency unit of any member state of the European Union that adopts the Euro as its lawful currency after the date hereof shall be redenominated into Euro at the time of such adoption (in accordance with the EMU Legislation).  If, in relation to the currency of any such member state, the basis of accrual of interest expressed in this Agreement in respect of that currency shall be inconsistent with any convention or practice in the London interbank market for the basis of accrual of interest in respect of the Euro, such expressed basis shall be replaced by such convention or practice with effect from the date on which such member state adopts the Euro as its lawful currency; that if any Committed Borrowing in the currency of such member state is outstanding immediately prior to such date, such replacement shall take effect, with respect to such Committed Borrowing , at the end of the then current Interest Period.
Change of Currency
 
provided
(b)
Each provision of this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent, in consultation with the Borrowers, may from time to time reasonably specify to be appropriate to reflect the adoption of the Euro by any member state of the European Union and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the Euro.
(c)
Each provision of this Agreement also shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent, in consultation with the Borrowers, may from time to time reasonably specify to be appropriate to reflect a change in currency of any other country and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the change in currency.
1.08.
.  Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
Times of Day
1.09.
Unless otherwise specified herein, the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the Dollar Equivalent of the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time; , , that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any Issuer Document related thereto, provides for one or
Letter of Credit Amounts.  
provided
however
more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
2.01.
.  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender hereby severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrowers in Dollars or in one or more Alternative Currencies from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Committed Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment.  Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrowers may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this .  Committed Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
Committed Loans
Committed Loan
provided
however
plus
plus
Section 2.01
Section 2.06
Section 2.01
2.02.
Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Committed Loans.
(a)
Each Committed Borrowing, each conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be made upon the Company's or Designated Borrower's, as the case may be, irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone.  Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than  (i) 1:00 p.m. three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars or of any conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars to Base Rate Committed Loans, (ii) 12:00 noon four Business Days (or five Business Days in the case of a Special Notice Currency)prior to the requested date of any Borrowing or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denom inated in Alternative Currencies, and (iii) 12:00 noon on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Committed Loans; , , that if any Borrower wishes to request Eurocurrency Rate Loans having an Interest Period other than one, two, three or six months in duration as provided in the definition of "Interest Period", the applicable notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (i) four Business Days prior to the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars, or (ii) five Business Days (or six Business days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, whereupon the Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Lenders of such request and determine whether the requested Interest Period is acceptable to all of them.  Not la ter than 11:00 a.m. (i) three Business Days before the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars having an Interest Period other than one, two, three or six months in duration as provided in the definition
provided
however
of "Interest Period", or (ii) four Business Days (or five Business days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies having an Interest Period other than one, two, three or six months in duration as provided in the definition of "Interest Period", the Administrative Agent shall notify the relevant Borrower (which notice may be by telephone) whether or not the requested Interest Period has been consented to by all the Lenders.  Each telephonic notice by any Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the relevant Borrower.  Each Bor rowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be in an amount not less than the Minimum Principal Amount.  Except as provided in and , each Committed Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof.  Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether such Borrower is requesting a Committed Borrowing, a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Committed Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Committed Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Committed Loans are to be converted, (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respe ct thereto and (vi) the currency of the Committed Loans to be borrowed.  If the relevant Borrower fails to specify a currency in a Committed Loan Notice requesting a Borrowing, then the Committed Loans so requested shall be made in Dollars.  If such Borrower fails to specify a Type of Committed Loan in a Committed Loan Notice or if such Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Committed Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans; , , that in the case of a failure to timely request a continuation of Committed Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, such Loans shall be continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans in their original currency with an Interest Period of one month.  Any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurocurrency Rate Loans.  If such Borrower requests a Borrowin g of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in any such Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.  No Committed Loan may be converted into or continued as a Committed Loan denominated in a different currency, but instead must be prepaid in the original currency of such Committed Loan and reborrowed in the other currency.
Section 2.02(a)
Sections 2.04(c)
2.05(c)
provided
however
(b)
Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount (and currency) of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Committed Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the applicable Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans or continuation of Committed Loans denominated in a currency other than Dollars, in each case as described in the preceding subsection.  In the case of a Committed Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Committed Loan available to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds at the Administrative Agent's Office for the applicable currency not later than 1:00 p.m, in the case of any Committed Loan denominated in Dollars other than Base Rate Loans, and in the case of any Committed Loan denominated in Dollars that is a Base Rate Loan, not later than 2:00 p.m., and not later than the
Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of any Committed Loan in an Alternative Currency, in each case on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice.  Subject to satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Company or the Designated Borrower, as applicable, in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent no later than 5:00 p.m. EST on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice either by (i) crediting the account of such Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to the Ad ministrative Agent by such Borrower; , , that if, on the date the Committed Loan Notice with respect to such Borrowing denominated in Dollars is given by such Borrower, there are L/C Borrowings outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing, , shall be applied to the payment in full of any such L/C Borrowings, and, , shall be made available to the applicable Borrower as provided above.
Section 4.02
Section 4.01
provided
however
first
second
(c)
Subject to , a Eurocurrency Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Loan.  During the existence of an Event of Default, the Administrative Agent or Required Lenders may require that no Loans may be converted to or continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans (whether in Dollars or any Alternative Currency) without the consent of the Required Lenders, and the Required Lenders may demand that any or all of the then outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency be redenominated into Dollars in the amount of the Dollar Equivalent thereof, on the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto.
Section 3.05
(d)
The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrowers and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurocurrency Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate.  At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrowers and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e)
After giving effect to all Committed Borrowings, all conversions of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Committed Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to Committed Loans.
2.03.
[Intentionally Omitted].
2.04.
Letters of Credit.
(a)
.
The Letter of Credit Commitment
(i)
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (A) the L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the Lenders set forth in this , (1) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, to issue Letters of Credit denominated in Dollars or in one or more Alternative Currencies for the account of the Borrowers or their respective Subsidiaries, and to amend or extend Letters of Credit previously issued by it, in
Section 2.04
accordance with subsection (b) below, and (2) to honor drawings under the Letters of Credit; and (B) the Lenders severally agree to participate in Letters of Credit issued for the account of the Borrowers or their Subsidiaries and any drawings thereunder; that after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension with respect to any Letter of Credit, (x) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, (y) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and (z) the Outstanding Amount of the L/C Obligations shall not exceed the Letter of Credit Subl imit.  Each request by the Borrowers for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a representation by the Borrowers that the L/C Credit Extension so requested complies with the conditions set forth in the proviso to the preceding sentence.  Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Borrowers' ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully revolving, and accordingly the Borrowers may, during the foregoing period, obtain Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have been drawn upon and reimbursed.  All Existing Letters of Credit shall be deemed to have been issued pursuant hereto, and from and after the Closing Date shall be subject to and governed by the terms and conditions hereof.
provided
plus
plus
(ii)
The L/C Issuer shall not issue any Letter of Credit, if:
(A)
subject to , the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur more than twelve months after the date of issuance or last extension, unless the Required Lenders have approved such expiry date; or
Section 2.04(b)(iii)
(B)
the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Lenders (other than any Defaulting Lender) have approved such expiry date.
(iii)
The L/C Issuer shall not be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:
(A)
any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain the L/C Issuer from issuing such Letter of Credit, or any Law applicable to the L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over the L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or request that the L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which the L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Closing Date and which the L/C Issue r in good faith deems material to it;
(B)
the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate one or more Laws or policies of the L/C Issuer applicable to letters of credit generally;
(C)
except as otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer, such Letter of Credit is in an initial stated amount less than $10,000, in the case of a commercial Letter of Credit, or $50,000, in the case of a standby Letter of Credit;
(D)
except as otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer, such Letter of Credit is to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars or an Alternative Currency; or
(E)
any Lender is at that time a Defaulting Lender, unless the L/C Issuer has entered into arrangements, including the delivery of Cash Collateral, satisfactory to the L/C Issuer (in its sole discretion) with the Company or such Lender to eliminate the L/C Issuer's actual or potential Fronting Exposure (after giving effect to ) with respect to the Defaulting Lender arising from either the Letter of Credit then proposed to be issued or that Letter of Credit and all other L/C Obligations as to which the L/C Issuer has actual or potential Fronting Exposure, as it may elect in its sole discretion.
Section 2.19(a)(iv)
(iv)
The L/C Issuer shall not amend any Letter of Credit if the L/C Issuer would not be permitted at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof.
(v)
The L/C Issuer shall be under no obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (A) the L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to such Letter of Credit.
(vi)
The L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, and the L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (A) provided to the Administrative Agent in Article IX with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by the L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in Article IX included the L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (B) as additionally provided herein with respect to the L/C Issuer.
(b)
.
Procedures for Issuance and Amendment of Letters of Credit; Auto-Extension Letters of Credit
(i)
Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case may be, upon the request of either Borrower delivered to the L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of such Borrower.  Such Letter of Credit Application must be received by the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. at least two Business Days (or such later date and time as the
Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer may agree in a particular instance in their sole discretion) prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be.  In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail reasonably satisfactory to the L/C Issuer: (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount and currency thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; and (G) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may reasonably request.   ;In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail reasonably satisfactory to the L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may reasonably request.  Additionally, the Borrowers shall furnish to the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer Documents, as the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.  In the event that any Letter of Credit Application includes representations and warranties, covenants and/or events of default that do not contain the materiality qualifiers, exceptions or thresholds that are applicable to the analogous provisions of this Agreement or other Loan Documents, or are otherwise more restrictive, the relevant qualifiers, exceptions and thresholds contained herein shall be incorporated therein or, to the extent more restrictive, shall be deemed for the purposes of such Letter of Credit Application to be the same as the analogous provisions herein.
(ii)
Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application from the relevant Borrower and, if not, the L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof.  Unless the L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Lender, the Administrative Agent or any Loan Party, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in shall not then be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of the relevant Borrower or its Subsidiary or en ter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with the L/C Issuer's usual and customary business practices.  Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage the amount of such Letter of Credit.
Article IV
times
(iii)
If a Borrower so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic extension provisions (each, an " "); that any such Auto-Extension Letter of Credit must permit the L/C Issuer to
Auto-Extension
Letter of Credit
provided
prevent any such extension at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the "") in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued.  Unless otherwise directed by the L/C Issuer, the Borrowers shall not be required to make a specific request to the L/C Issuer for any such extension.  Once an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the L/C Issuer to permit the extension of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date; , , that the L/C Issuer shall not permit any such extension if (A) the L/C Issuer has determined that it would not be permitted, or would have no obligation, at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its revised form (as extended) under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of clause (ii) or (iii) of or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is five Business Days before the Non-Extension Notice Date from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Borrowers that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, and in each such case directing the L/C Issuer not to permit such extension.
Non-Extension Notice Date
provided
however
Section 2.04(a)
Section 4.02
(iv)
Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the L/C Issuer will also deliver to the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.
(c)
.
Drawings and Reimbursements; Funding of Participations
(i)
Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under such Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall notify the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent thereof.  In the case of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, the applicable Borrower shall reimburse the L/C Issuer in such Alternative Currency, unless (A) the L/C Issuer (at its option) shall have specified in such notice that it will require reimbursement in Dollars and the relevant Borrower shall have agreed to make such payment in Dollars, or (B) in the absence of any such requirement for reimbursement in Dollars, the Borrowers shall have notified the L/C Issuer promptly following receipt of the notice of drawing that the Borrowers will reimburse the L/C Issuer in Dollars.  In the case of any such reimbursement in Dollars of a drawi ng under a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, the L/C Issuer shall notify the Borrowers of the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of the drawing promptly following the determination thereof.  Not later than 5:00 p.m. EST on the date of any payment by the L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit to be reimbursed in an Alternative Currency (each such date, an ""), the applicable Borrower shall reimburse the L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing and in the applicable currency, provided that if notice of such drawing is not provided to the relevant Borrower prior to 1:00 p.m. EST on the Honor Date, then such Borrower shall reimburse the L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing in the next succeeding Business Day and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing fees in respect of any such Letter of Credit plus interest.
Honor Date
If the applicable Borrower fails to so reimburse the L/C Issuer by such time, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the Honor Date, the amount of the unreimbursed drawing (expressed in Dollars in the amount of the Dollar Equivalent thereof in the case of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency) (the ""), and the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof.  In such event, the applicable Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans to be disbursed on the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unreimbursed Amount, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the amount of the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the condi tions set forth in (other than the delivery of a Committed Loan Notice).  Any notice given by the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in writing; that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice.
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.04(c)(i)
provided
(ii)
Each Lender (including the Lender acting as L/C Issuer) shall upon any notice pursuant to make funds available (and the Administrative Agent may apply Cash Collateral provided for this purpose) to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer, in Dollars, at the Administrative Agent's Office for Dollar-denominated payments in an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the Unreimbursed Amount not later than 1:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the provisions of , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the relevant Borrower in such amount.  The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the L/C Issuer in Dollars.
Section 2.04(c)(i)
Section 2.04(c)(iii)
(iii)
With respect to any Unreimbursed Amount that is not fully refinanced by a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans because the relevant conditions set forth in cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, the applicable Borrower shall be deemed to have incurred from the L/C Issuer an L/C Borrowing in the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount that is not so refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest).  In such event, each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this .
Section 4.02
Section 2.04(c)(ii)
Section 2.04
(iv)
Until each Lender funds its Committed Loan or L/C Advance pursuant to this to reimburse the L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such amount shall be solely for the account of the L/C Issuer.
Section 2.04(c)
(v)
Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or L/C Advances to reimburse the L/C Issuer for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit, as contemplated by this , shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right
Section 2.04(c)
which such Lender may have against the L/C Issuer, the Borrowers, any Subsidiary or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in (other than delivery by the Borrowers of a Committed Loan Notice).  No such making of an L/C Advance shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the applicable Borrower to reimburse the L/C Issuer for the amount of any payment made by the L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as provided herein.
provided
however
Section 2.04(c)
Section 4.02
(vi)
If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in ,  then, without limiting the other provisions of this Agreement, the L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect.  If such Lender pays such amount, the amount so paid (excluding any such interest payable by the Lender to the Administrative Agent) shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in the relevant Committed Borrowing or L/C Advance in respect of the relevant L/C Borrowing, as the case may be.  A certificate of the L/C Issuer submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (vi) shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error.
Section 2.04(c)
Section 2.04(c)(ii)
(d)
.
Repayment of Participations
(i)
At any time after the L/C Issuer has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender such Lender's L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with , if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of the L/C Issuer any payment in respect of the related Unreimbursed Amount or interest thereon (whether directly from the Borrowers or otherwise, including proceeds of Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative Agent will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in Dollars or the applicable Alternative Currency and in the same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.04(c)
(ii)
If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to is required to be returned under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the L/C Issuer in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned by such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect.  The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 2.04(c)(i)
Section 10.05
(e)
.The obligation of each Borrower to reimburse the L/C Issuer for each drawing under each Letter of Credit issued at the request of such Borrower and to repay each L/C Borrowing of such Borrower shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, including the following:
Obligations Absolute
 
(i)
any lack of validity or enforceability of such Letter of Credit, this Agreement, or any other Loan Document;
(ii)
the existence of any claim, counterclaim, setoff, defense or other right that the Borrowers or any Subsidiary may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), the L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction; provided that the Borrowers shall not be precluded from pursuing their rights and remedies in separate actions;
(iii)
any draft, demand, certificate or other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; or any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
(iv)
any payment by the L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by the L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law;
(v)
any adverse change in the relevant exchange rates or in the availability of the relevant Alternative Currency to the Borrowers or any Subsidiary or in the relevant currency markets generally; or
(vi)
any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrowers or any Subsidiary;
the foregoing shall not excuse the L/C Issuer from liability to the Borrowers or any of their Subsidiaries to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages) suffered by the Borrowers or any of their Subsidiaries that are caused by the L/C Issuer's bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct.
provided
that
The applicable Borrower shall promptly examine a copy of each Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the event of any claim of noncompliance with such Borrower's instructions or other irregularity, such Borrower will promptly notify the L/C
Issuer.  The relevant Borrower shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against the L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.
(f)
.Each Lender and each Borrower agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall not have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document.  None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer shall be liable to any Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection herewith at the request or with the approval of all of the Lenders or the Required Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution, effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Issuer Document.  Each Borrower hereby assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee with respect to its use of any Letter of Credit issued at the request of such Borrower; , , that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude such Borrower's pursuing such rights and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other agreement.  None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer shall be liable or responsible for any of the matters described in clauses (i) through (vi) of ; , , that anything in such clauses to the contrary notwithstanding, any Borrower may have a claim against the L/C Iss uer, and the L/C Issuer may be liable to such Borrower, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or exemplary, damages suffered by such Borrower which such Borrower proves were caused by the L/C Issuer's willful misconduct or gross negligence or the L/C Issuer's willful or grossly negligent failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the L/C Issuer may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and the L/C Issuer shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds there of, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.
Role of L/C Issuer
 
provided
however
Section 2.04(e)
provided
however
(g)
.
[Intentionally Omitted]
(h)
.Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the L/C Issuer and the applicable Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued (including any such agreement applicable to an Existing Letter of Credit), (i) the rules of the ISP shall apply to each standby Letter of Credit, and (ii) the rules of the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits, as most recently published by the International Chamber of Commerce at the time of issuance shall apply to each commercial Letter of Credit.
Applicability of ISP and UCP
 
(i)
.  The applicable Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, in Dollars, a Letter of Credit fee (the "")(i) for each commercial Letter of Credit the
Letter of Credit Fees
Letter of Credit Fee
Applicable Rate for commercial Letters of Credit the Dollar Equivalent of the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit, and (ii) for each standby Letter of Credit equal to the Applicable Rate for standby Letters of Credit the Dollar Equivalent of the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit, provided, however, any Letter of Credit Fees otherwise payable for the account of a Defaulting Lender with respect to any Letter of Credit as to which such Defaulting Lender has not provided Cash Collateral satisfactory to the L/C Issuer pursuant to shall be payable, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable Law, to the other Lenders in accordance with the upward adjustments in their respective Applicable Percentages allocable to such Letter of Credit pursuant to , with the balance of such fee, if any, payable to the L/C Issuer for its own account.    For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the Dollar Equivalent of the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time.  Letter of Credit Fees shall be (i) due and payable on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand and (ii) computed on a quarterly basis in arrears.  If there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.  
times
times
Section 2.04(a)(iii)(e)
Secti on 2.19(a)(iv)
(j)
.The applicable Borrower shall pay directly to the relevant L/C Issuer for its own account, in Dollars, a fronting fee (i) with respect to each commercial Letter of Credit issued for the account of a Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, at the rate per annum as separately agreed between the relevant Borrower and the relevant L/C Issuer, computed on the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of such Letter of Credit, and payable upon the issuance thereof, (ii) with respect to any amendment of a commercial Letter of Credit increasing the amount of such Letter of Credit, at a rate separately agreed between the relevant Borrower and the relevant L/C Issuer, computed on the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of such increase, and payable upon the effectiveness of such amendment, and (iii) wit h respect to each standby Letter of Credit issued for the account of a Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, at the rate per annum as separately agreed between such Borrower and the relevant L/C Issuer, computed on the Dollar Equivalent of the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit on a quarterly basis in arrears.  Such fronting fee shall be due and payable on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand.  For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with .  In addition, the applicable Borrower shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer for its own account, in Dollars, the customary issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees, and other standard costs a nd charges, of the L/C Issuer relating to letters of credit as from time to time in effect.  Such customary fees and standard costs and charges are due and payable within three Business Days of demand and are nonrefundable.
Fronting Fee and Documentary and Processing Charges Payable to L/C Issuer
 
Section 1.09
(k)
.  In the event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Issuer Document, the terms hereof shall control.
Conflict with Issuer Documents
(l)
.  Notwithstanding that a Letter of Credit issued or outstanding hereunder is in support of any obligations of, or is for the account of, a Subsidiary, the relevant Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the L/C Issuer hereunder for any and all drawings under such Letter of Credit.  Each Borrower hereby acknowledges that the issuance of Letters of Credit for the account of Subsidiaries inures to the benefit of such Borrower, and that such Borrower's business derives substantial benefits from the businesses of such Subsidiaries.
Letters of Credit Issued for Subsidiaries
2.05.
.
Swing Line Loans
(a)
.  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lender, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this , shall make loans in Dollars (each such loan, a "") to any Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the Swing Line Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of Committed Loans and L/C Obligations of the Lender acting as Swing Line Lender, may exceed the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Swing Line Loan, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitm ents, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and , , that such Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Swing Line Loan to refinance any outstanding Swing Line Loan.  Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, each Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this .  Each Swing Line Loan shall be a Base Rate Loan.  Immediately upon the making of a Swing Line Loan, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to th e product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage the amount of such Swing Line Loan.
The Swing Line
Section 2.05
Swing Line Loan
provided
however
plus
plus
provided
further
Section 2.05
Section 2.06
Section 2.05
times
(b)
.  Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made upon the applicable Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. on the requested borrowing date, and shall specify (i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of $1,000,000, and (ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day.  Each such telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written Swing Line Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of such Borrower.  Promptly after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of any telephonic Swing Line Loan Notice, the Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received such Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the Swing Line Lender will notify the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof.  Unless the Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing) from the Administrative Agent (including at the request of any Lender) prior to 2:00 p.m. on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the Swing
Borrowing Procedures
Line Lender not to make such Swing Line Loan as a result of the limitations set forth in the first proviso to the first sentence of , or (B) that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swing Line Lender will, not later than 3:00 p.m. on the borrowing date specified in such Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its Swing Line Loan available to the applicable Borrower at its office by crediting the account of such Borrower on the books of the Swing Line Lender in Same Day Funds.
Section 2.05(a)
Section 4.02
(c)
.
Refinancing of Swing Line Loans
(i)
The Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may request, on behalf of the applicable Borrower (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Lender make a Base Rate Committed Loan in an amount equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of Swing Line Loans then outstanding.  Such request shall be made in writing (which written request shall be deemed to be a Committed Loan Notice for purposes hereof) and in accordance with the requirements of , without regard to the minimum and multiples specified therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in .  The Swing Line Lender shall furnish the applicable Borrower with a copy of the applicable Committed Loan Notice promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent.  Each Lender shall make an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the amount specified in such Committed Loan Notice available to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds (and the Administrative Agent may apply Cash Collateral available with respect to the applicable Swing Line Loan) for the account of the Swing Line Lender at the Administrative Agent's Office for Dollar-denominated payments not later than 1:00 p.m. on the day specified in such Committed Loan Notice, whereupon, subject to , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the applicable Borrower in such amount.  The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swing Line Lender.
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.05(c)(ii)
(ii)
If for any reason any Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Committed Borrowing in accordance with , the request for Base Rate Committed Loans submitted by the Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swing Line Lender that each of the Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan and each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.
Section 2.05(c)(i)
Section 2.05(c)(i)
(iii)
If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , the Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to the
Section 2.05(c)
Section 2.05(c)(i)
applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect.  If such Lender pays such amounts, the amount so paid (excluding such interest payable by the Lender to the Administrative Agent) shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in the relevant Committed Borrowing or funded participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan, as the case may be.  A certificate of the Swing Line Lender submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (iii) shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error.
(iv)
Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swing Line Loans pursuant to this shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the Swing Line Lender, any Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing.  No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of each Borrower to repay Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.05(c)
(d)
.
Repayment of Participations
(i)
At any time after any Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Swing Line Loan, if the Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of such Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in the same funds as those received by the Swing Line Lender.
(ii)
If any payment received by the Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or interest on any Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Swing Line Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate.  The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Swing Line Lender.  The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 10.05
(e)
.  The Swing Line Lender shall be responsible for invoicing the applicable Borrower for interest on the Swing Line Loans.  Until each Lender funds its Base Rate Committed Loan or risk participation pursuant to this to refinance such Lender's Applicable Percentage of any Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Applicable Percentage shall be solely for the account of the Swing Line Lender.
Interest for Account of Swing Line Lender
Section 2.05
(f)
.  The applicable Borrower shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Swing Line Loans directly to the Swing Line Lender.
Payments Directly to Swing Line Lender
(g)
.  The Designated Borrower shall have no liability to repay any Swing Line Loans requested by the Company.
Designated Borrower
2.06.
.  (a) Each Borrower may, upon notice from such Borrower to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Committed Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than (A) 4:00 p.m. three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars, (B) 4:00 p.m. four Business Days (or five, in the case of prepayment of Loans denominated in Special Notice Currencies) prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, and (C) 12:00 noon on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100 ,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding.  Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Committed Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurocurrency Rate Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans.  The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment.  If such notice is given by such Borrower, such Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.  Any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to .  Subject to , each such prepayment shall be applied to the Committed Loans of the Lenders in accordance wit h their respective Applicable Percentages.  
Prepayments
provided
Section 3.05
Section 2.19(a)
(b)
The Company may, upon notice to the Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty.  If such notice is given by the Company, the Company shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.
(c)
If the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrowers at any time that the Total Outstandings at such time exceed an amount equal to 105% of the Aggregate Commitments then in effect, then, within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, the Borrowers shall prepay Loans and/or Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such Outstanding Amount as of such date of payment to an amount not to exceed 100% of the Aggregate Commitments then in effect; , , that no Borrower shall be required to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations pursuant to this unless, after the prepayment in full of the Loans, the Total Outstandings exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect.  
provided
however
Section 2.06(c)
2.07.
.  The Company may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. three Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, if any Outstanding Amount shall be
Termination or Reduction of Commitments
provided
provided
further
denominated in an Alternative Currency or Special Notice Currency and would be repaid in connection with such termination or reduction, the Administrative Agent shall receive such notice not later than 11:00 a.m. five Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction; (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (iii) the Company shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (iv) if, after giving effect to any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments, the Letter of Credit Sublimit, or the Swing Line Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Commitments, such Sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess.  The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments.  The amount of any such Aggregate Commitment reduction shall not be applied to the Letter of Credit Sublimit or the Swing Line Sublimit unless otherwise specified by the Company. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage.  All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.  
2.08.
.  (a) Each Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Committed Loans made to such Borrower outstanding on such date.
Repayment of Loans
(b)
The Company shall repay each Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the date ten Business Days after such Loan is made and (ii) the Maturity Date.
2.09.
.  (a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Rate Loans (in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Euros or Sterling of any Lender which is lent from a Lending Office in the United Kingdom or a Participating Member State) the Mandatory Cost; (ii) each Base Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Rate for Base Rate Loans; and (iii) each Swing Line Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Rate for Base Rate Loans.
Interest
plus
plus
(b)
(i)
If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(ii)
If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by any Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, and an Event of Default results from such failure to pay such amount when due, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall
thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(iii)
Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
(c)
Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein.  Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
2.10.
.  In addition to certain fees described in subsections (i) and (j) of :
Fees
Section 2.04
(a)
.  The Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a commitment fee in Dollars equal to the Applicable Rate for commitment fees the actual daily amount by which the Aggregate Commitments exceed the sum of (i) the Outstanding Amount of Loans and (ii) the Outstanding Amount of L/C Obligations, subject to adjustment as provided in , that Swing Line Loans shall not be considered outstanding for purposes of determining the unused portion of the Aggregate Commitments.  The commitment fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period, including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of eac h March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the last day of the Availability Period, that any commitment fee accrued with respect to any of the Commitments of a Defaulting Lender during the period prior to the time such Lender became a Defaulting Lender and unpaid at such time shall not be payable by the Company so long as such Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender except to the extent that such commitment fee shall otherwise have been due and payable by the Company prior to such time, and provided further that no commitment fee shall accrue on any of the Commitments of a Defaulting Lender so long as such Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender.  The commitment fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rat e was in effect.
Commitment Fee
times
Section 2.19
provided
Article IV
provided
(b)
.The Company shall pay to each Lead Arranger and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts, in Dollars, fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letters.    
Other Fees
 
2.11.
.  (a) All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans and Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Sterling shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed.  All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year), or, in the case of interest in respect of Committed Loans denominated in Alternative
Computation of Interest and Fees
Currencies as to which market practice differs from the foregoing, in accordance with such market practice.  Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day.  Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be prima facie evidence for all purposes, absent demonstrable error.
provided
Section 2.13(a)
(b)
If, as a result of any restatement of or other adjustment to the financial statements of the Company or for any other reason, the Company or the Lenders determine that (i) the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as calculated by the Company as of any applicable date was inaccurate and (ii) a proper calculation of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio would have resulted in higher pricing for such period, the Borrowers shall immediately and retroactively be obligated to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, promptly on demand by the Administrative Agent (or, after the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, automatically and without further action by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer), an amo unt equal to the excess of the amount of interest and fees that should have been paid for such period over the amount of interest and fees actually paid for such period.  This paragraph shall not limit the rights of the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, under .  The Borrower's obligations under this paragraph shall survive the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment of all other Obligations hereunder for the limited period ending one month following the date of the Company's annual audited financial statements which include the period during which such termination and repayment occurred.  
Article VIII
2.12.
.  (a) The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender, and evidenced by one or more entries in the Register, by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business.  The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be prima facie evidence absent demonstrable error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrowers and the interest and payments thereon.  Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrowers hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations.  In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.  Upon the request of any Lender to a Borrower made through the Administrative Agent, such Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans to such Borrower in addition to such accounts or records.  Each Lender may attach schedules to a Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount, currency and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
Evidence of Debt
(b)
In addition to the accounts and records referred to in subsection (a), each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records and, in the case of the Administrative Agent, entries in the Register, evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans.  
In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.
2.13.
 (a) General.  All payments to be made by the Borrowers shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff (other than with respect to Taxes which shall be governed solely by ).  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein and except with respect to principal of and interest on Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, all payments by the Borrowers hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in Same Day Funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrowers hereunder with respect to principal and interest on Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in such Alternative Currency and in Same Day Funds not later than 12:00 noon EST on the dates specified herein.  If, for any reason, any Borrower is prohibited by any Law from making any required payment hereunder in an Alternative Currency, such Borrower shall make such payment in Dollars in the Dollar Equivalent of the Alternative Currency payment amount.  The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office.  All payments received by the Administrative Agent (i) after 2:00 p.m., in the case of payments in Dollars, or (ii) after 12:00 noon EST in the case of payments in an Alternative Currency, shall in each case be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall contin ue to accrue.  If any payment to be made by any Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback.
Section 3.01
(b)
(i)  .  Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Committed Borrowing of Eurocurrency Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 12:00 noon on the date of such Committed Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Committed Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower a c orresponding amount.  In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to such Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Overnight Rate from time to time in effect.  If such Lender does not pay such amount forthwith upon the Administrative Agent's demand therefor, the Administrative Agent may make a demand therefor upon the applicable Borrower,
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
and such Borrower shall pay such amount to the Administrative Agent, together with interest thereon for the Compensation Period at a rate per annum equal to the rate of interest applicable to the applicable Borrowing.  Nothing herein shall be deemed to relieve any Lender from its obligation to fulfill its Commitment or to prejudice any rights which the Administrative Agent or any Borrower may have against any Lender as a result of any default by such Lender hereunder.  If such Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to such Borrower the amount of such interest paid by such Borrower for such period.  If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid (excludin g such interest payable by such Lender to the Administrative Agent) shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in such Committed Borrowing.  Any payment by such Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim such Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
(ii)
.  Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due.  In such event, if such Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, in Same Day Funds with int erest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Overnight Rate.
Payments by Borrowers; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent demonstrable error.
(c)
.  If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender to any Borrower as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to such Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall promptly return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
(d)
.  The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Committed Loans, to fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint.  The failure of any Lender to make any Committed Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Committed Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
(e)
.  Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
2.14.
.  If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it, or the participations in L/C Obligations or in Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Committed Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Committed Loans and subparticipations in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on th eir respective Committed Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
Sharing of Payments by Lenders
pro
rata
provided
(i)
if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
(ii)
the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by or on behalf of a Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement (including the application of funds arising from the existence of a Defaulting Lender), (y) the application of Cash Collateral provided for in or (z) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Committed Loans or subparticipations in L/C Obligations or Swing Line Loans to any assignee or participant.
Section 2.18
Each Loan Party consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Loan Party rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation to the extent set forth herein as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Loan Party in the amount of such participation.
2.15.
.  (a) Effective as of the date hereof Hasbro SA, a corporation organized under the laws of Switzerland and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, shall be the "Designated Borrower" hereunder and may borrow Loans for its account on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
Designated Borrower
(b)
The Obligations of the Company and the Designated Borrower shall be several in nature.
2.16.
Increase in Commitments.
(a)
.  Provided there exists no Default, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders), the Company may through the Administrative Agent from time to time, request any one or more of the Lenders to increase its Commitment by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $200,000,000 in the aggregate; that any such request for an increase shall be in a minimum amount of $50,000,000.  At the time of sending such notice, the Company (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Lender is requested to respond.  After giving effect to all such increases, the Aggregate Commitments shall not exceed $700,000,000.  If the Company has requested an increase from the Lenders and such requested increase, or any portion thereof, is decline d by one or more Lenders, the Company may, to the extent necessary to obtain the full amount of the requested increase, invite additional Eligible Assignees reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent to become Lenders (""), may request such accepting Lenders to commit to the full amount of the requested increase, or may reduce the amount of the requested increase.
Request for Increase
provided
Additional Lenders
(b)
.  Each Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent in writing within the specified time period whether or not it agrees in its sole discretion to increase its Commitment and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or less than its Applicable Percentage of such requested increase.  Any Lender not responding in writing within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Commitment.
Lender Elections to Increase
(c)
.  The Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and each Lender of the Lenders' responses to each request made hereunder.  If the Aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section (i) the Administrative Agent and the Company shall determine the effective date (the "") and the final allocation of such increase, (ii) the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company and the Lenders and any Additional Lender of the final allocation of such increase and the Increase Effective Date and (iii) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and each increasing Lender and Additional Lender shall execute and deliver a supplement to this Agreement substantially in the form of hereto, whereupon (y) in the case of an increasing Lender, each such increasing Lender's Commitment shall be increased to the amount set forth in such supplement and (z) in the case of an Additional Lender, such Additional Lender shall become a party hereto and shall for all purposes of the Loan Documents be deemed a "Lender" having a Commitment as set forth in such supplement.
Notification by Administrative Agent; Effective Date and Allocations;
Supplement
Increase Effective Date
Exhibit J
(d)
.  If the Aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Company shall determine the effective date (the "") and the final allocation of such increase.  The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company and the Lenders of the final allocation of such increase and the Increase Effective Date.  Any increase, and any amendments made to evidence such increase, shall not require the consent of any Lender not participating in such increase.
Effective Date and Allocations
Increase Effective Date
(e)
.  As a condition precedent to such increase, the Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of each Loan Party dated as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
Responsible Officer of such Loan Party (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by such Loan Party approving or consenting to such increase, and (ii) in the case of the Borrowers, certifying that, before and after giving effect to such increase, (A) the representations and warranties contained in (except for the representations and warranties in and ) and the other Loan Documents are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Increase Effective Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date, and (B) no Default exists.  The Borrowers shall prepay any Committed Loans outstanding on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional am ounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages arising from any nonratable increase in the Commitments under this Section.
Article V
Section 5.05(c)
5.09
Section 3.05
(f)
.  This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.14
10.01
2.17.
 Subject to , each Lender may make (i) any Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency or (ii) any Loan to the Designated Borrower by causing any of its domestic or foreign branches or foreign affiliates to make such Eurocurrency Rate Loan (whether or not such branch or affiliate is named as a lending office on the signature pages hereof); that in such event the obligation of the applicable Borrower to repay such Eurocurrency Rate Loan or the obligation of the Designated Borrower to repay such Loan, as the case may be, shall nevertheless be to such Lender and shall, for all purposes of this Agreement (including, without limitation, for purposes of the definition of "Required Lenders") be deemed made by such Lender, to the extent of such Eurocurrency Rate Loan or such Loan made to the Designated Borrower, as the case may be.
Funding.
Section 10.06(b)(vii)
provided
2.18.
.
Cash Collateral
(a)
.  Upon the request of the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer (i) if the L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has resulted in an L/C Borrowing, or (ii) if, as of the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, any L/C Obligation for any reason remains outstanding, the applicable Borrower shall, in each case, immediately Cash Collateralize the then Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations.  At any time that there shall exist a Defaulting Lender, within three (3) Business Days upon the request of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, the applicable Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent Cash Collateral in an amount sufficient to cover all Fronting Exposure (after giving effect to and any Cash Collate ral provided by the Defaulting Lender).
Certain Credit Support Events
Section 2.19(a)(iv)
(b)
.  All Cash Collateral (other than credit support not constituting funds subject to deposit) shall be maintained in blocked, non-interest bearing deposit accounts at Bank of America.  The Borrower, and to the extent provided by any Lender, such Lender, hereby grants, as of the date such Cash Collateral is provided pursuant to this , to (and subjects to the control of) the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders (including the Swing Line Lender), and agrees to maintain, a first priority security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all
Grant of Security Interest
Section 2.18
balances therein, and all other property so provided as collateral pursuant hereto, and in all proceeds of the foregoing, all as security for the obligations to which such Cash Collateral may be applied pursuant to .  If at any time the Administrative Agent determines that Cash Collateral is subject to any right or claim of any Person other than the Administrative Agent as herein provided, or that the total amount of such Cash Collateral is less than the applicable Fronting Exposure and other obligations secured thereby, the applicable Borrower or the relevant Defaulting Lender will, promptly upon demand by the Administrative Agent, pay or provide to the Administrative Agent additional Cash Collateral in an amount sufficient to eliminate such deficiency.
Section 2.18(c)
(c)
.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, Cash Collateral provided under any of this or , , or or in respect of Letters of Credit or Swing Line Loans shall be held and applied to the satisfaction of the specific L/C Obligations, Swing Line Loans, obligations to fund participations therein (including, as to Cash Collateral provided by a Defaulting Lender, any interest accrued on such funding obligations) and other obligations for which the Cash Collateral was so provided, prior to any other application of such property as may be provided for herein.
Application
 
Section 2.18
Sections 2.04(a)(iii)(E)
2.06(c)
2.19(a)(ii)
(b)
8.02
(d)
.  Cash Collateral (or the appropriate portion thereof) provided to reduce Fronting Exposure or other obligations shall be released promptly following (i) the elimination of the applicable Fronting Exposure or other obligations giving rise thereto (including by the termination of Defaulting Lender status of the applicable Lender (or, as appropriate, its assignee following compliance with )) or (ii) the existence of excess Cash Collateral, as determined by the Administrative Agent in good faith; , , (x) that Cash Collateral furnished by or on behalf of a Loan Party shall not be released during the continuance of a Default or Event of Default (and following application as provided in this may be otherwise applied in accordance with ), and (y) the Person provid ing Cash Collateral and the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as applicable, may agree that Cash Collateral shall not be released but instead held to support future anticipated Fronting Exposure or other obligations.
Release
Section 10.06(b)(ix)
provided
however
Section 2.18
Section 8.03
2.19.
.
Defaulting Lenders
(a)
.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then, until such time as that Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender, to the extent permitted by applicable Law:
Adjustments
(i)
.  That Defaulting Lender's right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent with respect to this Agreement shall be restricted as set forth in .
Waivers and Amendments
Section 10.01
(ii)
.  Any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts received by the Administrative Agent in its capacity as Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of that Defaulting Lender (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to Article VIII or otherwise, and including any amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by that Defaulting Lender pursuant to
Reallocation of Payments
), shall be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Administrative Agent as follows: , to the payment of any amounts owing by that Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent hereunder; , to the payment on a pro rata basis of any amounts owing by that Defaulting Lender to the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder; , if so determined by the Administrative Agent or requested by the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, to be held as Cash Collateral for future funding obligations of that Defaulting Lender of any participation in any Swing Line Loan or Letter of Credit; , as the Company may elect (so long as no Default or Event of Default exists), to the funding of any Loan in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as re quired by this Agreement, as determined by the Administrative Agent; , if so determined by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, to be held in a non-interest bearing deposit account and released in order to satisfy obligations of that Defaulting Lender to fund Loans under this Agreement; , to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders, the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender, the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender against that Defaulting Lender as a result of that Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; , so long as no Default or Event of Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to any Borrower as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by such Borrower against that Defaulting Lender as a result of that Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and , to that Defaul ting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction; provided that if (x) such payment is a payment of the principal amount of any Loans or L/C Borrowings in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has not fully funded its appropriate share and (y) such Loans or L/C Borrowings were made at a time when the conditions set forth in were satisfied or waived, such payment shall be applied solely to pay the Loans of, and L/C Borrowings owed to, all non-Defaulting Lenders on a pro rata basis prior to being applied to the payment of any Loans of, or L/C Borrowings owed to, that Defaulting Lender.  Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender or to post Cash Collateral pursuant to this shall be deemed paid to and redirected by that Defaulting Lender as set forth in this , and each Lender irrevocably consents heret o.
Section 10.08
first
second
third
fourth
fifth
sixth
seventh
eighth
Section 4.02
Section 2.19(a)(ii)
Section 2.19(a)(ii)
(iii)
.  That Defaulting Lender (x) shall not be entitled to receive any commitment fee pursuant to for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and no Borrower shall be required to pay any such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender) and (y) shall be limited in its right to receive Letter of Credit Fees as provided in .
Certain Fees
Section 2.10(a)
Section 2.04(i)
(iv)
.  During any period in which there is a Defaulting Lender, for purposes of computing the amount of the obligation of each non-Defaulting Lender to acquire, refinance or fund participations in Letters of Credit or Swing Line Loans pursuant to and , the "Applicable Percentage" of each non-Defaulting Lender shall be computed without giving effect to the Commitment of that Defaulting Lender; provided, that, (i) each such reallocation shall be given effect only if, at the date the applicable Lender
Reallocation of Applicable Percentages to Reduce Fronting Exposure
Sections 2.04
2.05
becomes a Defaulting Lender, no Default or Event of Default exists; that on any date thereafter during such period, to the extent such Default or Event of Default has been cured or waived, such reallocation shall occur on such later date; and (ii) the aggregate obligation of each non-Defaulting Lender to acquire, refinance or fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans shall not exceed the positive difference, if any, of (1) the Commitment of that non-Defaulting Lender minus (2) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of that Lender.
provided
(b)
.  If all of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer agree in writing in their sole discretion that a Lender that is a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Administrative Agent will so notify the parties hereto, and as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any Cash Collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that portion of outstanding Loans of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Administrative Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Committed Loans and funded and unfunded participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans to be held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their Applicable Per centages (without giving effect to ), and, upon consummation of such purchase, that Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; provided that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of any Borrower while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and provided, further, that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
Defaulting Lender Cure
Section 2.19(a)(iv)
3.01.
.
Taxes
 
(a)
.  
Payments Free of Taxes
(i)
Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the respective Borrowers hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall to the extent permitted by applicable Laws be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes.  If, however, applicable Laws require the applicable Borrower or the Administrative Agent to withhold or deduct any Tax, (A) such Tax shall be withheld or deducted in accordance with such Laws as determined by such Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, upon the basis of the information and documentation to be delivered pursuant to subsection (e) below and (B) such Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Laws.
(ii)
To the extent that the applicable Borrower or the Administrative Agent is required by applicable Laws to withhold or deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes
from a payment described in subsection (a)(i) above, the sum payable by the Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions with respect to such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Lender or L/C Issuer, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made.
(b)
.  Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, each Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Laws.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrowers
(c)
.  
Indemnification by the Borrowers
(i)
Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) above, each Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the L/C Issuer, within 10 days after written demand setting forth the amount and the reasons in reasonable detail therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) withheld or deducted by such Borrower or the Administrative Agent or paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto (other than penalties, interest and expenses attributable to gross negligence or willful misconduct), whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority.  A certificate setting forth the amount of such payment or liability and the reasons therefor in reasonable detail, delivered to a Borrower by a Lender or the L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(ii)
Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) above, each Lender and the L/C Issuer shall, and does hereby, indemnify each Borrower and the Administrative Agent, within 10 days after written demand setting forth the amount and the reasons in reasonable detail therefor, against any and all Taxes and any and all related losses, claims, liabilities, penalties, interest and expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for such Borrower or the Administrative Agent) incurred by or asserted against such Borrower or the Administrative Agent by any Governmental Authority as a result of the failure by such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to deliver, or as a result of the inaccuracy, inadequacy or deficiency of, any documentation required to be delivered by such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to s uch Borrower or the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (e).  Each Lender and the L/C Issuer hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, under this Agreement or any other Loan Document against any amount due to the Administrative Agent under this clause (ii).  The agreements in this clause (ii) shall survive the resignation and/or replacement of the Administrative Agent, any assignment of rights by, or the replacement of, a Lender or the L/C Issuer, the termination of the
Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all other Obligations.
(d)
.  As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by any Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to a Governmental Authority, such Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Administrative Agent shall deliver to the Borrower, as the case may be, the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return required by Laws to report such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to such Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be.
Evidence of Payments
(e)
.  
Status of Lenders; Tax Documentation
(i)
Each Lender (and, in the case of a pass-through entity, any of its beneficial owners) shall (and, in the case of a pass-through entity, shall cause the beneficial owners to) deliver to the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent, at the time or times prescribed by applicable Laws or when reasonably requested by a Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable Laws or by taxing authorities of any jurisdiction and such other reasonably requested information as will permit the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine (A) whether or not payments made hereunder or under any other Loan Document are subject to withholding or deduction on account of Taxes, (B) if applicable, the required rate of withholding or deduction, and (C) such Lender's entitlement to an y available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable Taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lender's status for withholding tax purposes in the applicable jurisdiction.  
(ii)
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any Lender shall deliver to Company and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Company or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
(A)
in the case of any Lender that is a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code,  executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 or such other documentation or information prescribed by applicable Laws or reasonably requested by any Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable such Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements,
(B)
in the case of any Foreign Lender:
(1)
executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(2)
executed originals copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
(3)
executed originals copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8IMY and all required supporting documentation,
(4)
in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the applicable Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
(5)
any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Company to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
(iii)
Each Lender shall promptly (i) notify the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any such  claimed exemption or reduction, and (ii) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any such jurisdiction that any Borrower make any deduction or withholding for taxes from amounts payable to such Lender.  
(iv)
If a payment made to a Foreign Lender under this Agreement or any Loan Document would be subject to U.S. federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (A) a certification signed by the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or controller, and (B) other documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent sufficient for the Administrative Agent and the Borrower to comply with their obligations under FATCA and to determine that such Lender has complied with such applicable reporting requirements.  
(v)
Each of the Borrowers shall promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the Administrative Agent or such Lender shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by such Borrower, as are required to be furnished by such Lender or the Administrative Agent under such Laws in connection with any payment by
the Administrative Agent or any Lender of Taxes or Other Taxes, or otherwise in connection with the Loan Documents, with respect to such jurisdiction.
(f)
.  If the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines, in its reasonable discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by any Borrower or with respect to which any Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to such Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by such Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that each Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority other than penalties, interest or charges attributable to gross negligence or willful misconduct) to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer in the event the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority.  This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to any Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
provided
3.02.
.  If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurocurrency Rate Loans (whether denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency), or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars or any Alternative Currency in the applicable interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrowers through the Administrative Agent, (i) any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in Dollars, to convert Base Rate Committed Loans to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, shall be suspended and (ii) if such notice asserts the illegality of such Lender making or maintai ning Base Rate Loans the interest rate on which is determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Rate component of the Base Rate, the interest rate on which Base Rate Loans of such Lender shall, if necessary to avoid such illegality, be determined by the Administrative Agent without reference to the Eurocurrency Rate component of the Base Rate, in each case until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrowers that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist.  Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrowers shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable and such Loans are denominated in Dollars, convert all such Eurocurrency Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans (the interest rate on which Base Rate Loans of such Lender shall, if necessary to avoid such illegality, be determined by the Administrative Agent without reference to the Eurocurrency Rate component of the Base Rate), either on the last day of the I nterest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency
Illegality
Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans and (y) if such notice asserts the illegality of such Lender determining or charging interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate, the Administrative Agent shall during the period of such suspension compute the Base Rate applicable to such Lender without reference to the Eurocurrency Rate component thereof until the Administrative Agent is advised in writing by such Lender that it is no longer illegal  for such Lender to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrowers shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
3.03.
.  If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) deposits (whether in Dollars or an Alternative Currency) are not being offered to banks in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurocurrency Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Loan (whether denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency), or (c) the Eurocurrency Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the Administrative Agent shall forthwith give notice of such determination to the Borrowers and each Lender.  Th ereafter, (x) the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies shall be suspended, and (y) in the event of a determination described in the preceding sentence with respect to the Eurocurrency Rate component of the Base Rate, the utilization of the Eurocurrency Rate component in determining the Base Rate shall be suspended, in each case until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice.  Upon receipt of such notice, any Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein and the Lenders shall make, convert or continue the Loans as proposed by such Borrower in the amount specified in the applicable notice submitted by such Borrower, but suc h Loans shall be made, converted or continued as Base Rate Loans.
Inability to Determine Rates
3.04.
Increased Costs; Reserves on Eurocurrency Rate Loans.
(a)
.  If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
(i)
impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except (A) any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurocurrency Rate and (B) the requirements of the Bank of England and the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank reflected in the Mandatory Cost) or the L/C Issuer;
(ii)
subject any Lender or the L/C Issuer to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, any participation in a Letter of Credit or any Eurocurrency Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender or the L/C Issuer in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax);
Section 3.01
(iii)
result in the failure of the Mandatory Cost, as calculated hereunder, to represent the cost to any Lender of complying with the requirements of the Bank of England and/or the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank in relation to its making, funding or maintaining Eurocurrency Rate Loans; or
(iv)
impose on any Lender or the L/C Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Rate Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurocurrency Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender or the L/C Issuer of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or the L/C Issuer hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then from time to time within 30 days following written demand of such Lender setting forth in reasonable detail such increased costs (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent given in accordance with ), the Company will pay (or cause the Designated Borrower to pay) to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the ca se may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
Section 3.07
(b)
.  If any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or the L/C Issuer or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has had the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by the L/C Issuer, to a level below
Capital Requirements
that which such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's policies and the policies of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), in each case by an amount deemed by such Lender to be material, then from time to time within 30 days following written demand of such Lender setting forth in reasonable detail the charge and the calculation of such reduced rate of return (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent given in accordance with ), the Company will pay (or cause the Designated Borrower to pay) to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or t he L/C Issuer or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Section 3.07
(c)
.  A certificate of a Lender or the L/C Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Borrowers shall be conclusive absent manifest error.  The Company shall pay (or cause the Designated Borrower to pay) such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
(d)
.  Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or the L/C Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's right to demand such compensation, that no Borrower shall be required to compensate a Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than six months prior to the date that such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, notifies the Borrowers of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
(e)
.  If any Lender is required to comply with any reserve ratio requirement or analogous requirement of any Governmental Authority imposed in respect of the maintenance of the Commitments or the funding of the Eurocurrency Rate Loans (other than the Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage and Mandatory Costs), the Company shall pay (or cause the Designated Borrower to pay) to such Lender such additional costs (expressed as a percentage per annum and rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest five decimal places) equal to the actual costs allocated to such Commitment or Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive in the absence of demonstrable error), which shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan, the Borrowers shall hav e received at least 15 days' prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such additional costs from such Lender.  If a Lender fails to give notice 15 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional interest or costs shall be due and payable 15 days from receipt of such notice.
Additional Reserve Requirements
provided
3.05.
.  Upon the written demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Company shall promptly compensate (or cause the Designated Borrower to compensate) such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless
Compensation for Losses
from any actual loss, cost or expense incurred by it excluding any loss of margin or actual anticipated profits as a result of:
(a)
any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
(b)
any failure by any Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Company or the Designated Borrower; or
(c)
any assignment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Company or the Designated Borrower pursuant to ;
Section 10.13
including any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Company (or the Designated Borrower) to any Lender under this , such Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurocurrency Rate Loan made by it at the Eurocurrency Base Rate used in determining the Eurocurrency Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the offshore interbank market for such currency for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurocurrency Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
3.06.
.  If any Lender requests compensation under , or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrowers may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
3.07.
Matters Applicable to All Requests for Compensation.
(a)
If the Administrative Agent or any Lender claims compensation under this , it shall deliver a certificate to the Borrowers contemporaneously with the demand for payment setting forth in reasonable detail a calculation of the additional amount or amounts to be paid to it hereunder which shall be conclusive in the absence of demonstrable error.  In determining such amount, the Administrative Agent or such Lender may use any reasonable averaging and attribution methods.
Article III
(b)
With respect to any Lender's claim for compensation under any of through , the Borrowers shall not be required to compensate such Lender for any amount incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrowers of the event that gives rise to such claim; provided that, if the circumstance giving rise to such increased cost or reduction is retroactive, then such 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.  If any Lender requests compensation from any Borrower under , the Company may, by notice to such Lender (with a copy
Sections 3.01
3.05
Section 3.04
to the Administrative Agent), suspend the obligation of such Lender to make or continue from one Interest Period to another Eurocurrency Rate Loans, or to convert Base Rate Loans into Eurocurrency Rate Loans, until the event or condition giving rise to such request ceases to be in effect (in which case the provisions of shall be applicable); provided that such suspension shall not affect the right of such Lender to receive the compensation so requested.
Section 3.07(c)
(c)
If the obligation of any Lender to make or continue from one Interest Period to another any Eurocurrency Rate Loan (or to convert Base Rate Loans into Eurocurrency Rate Loans) shall be suspended pursuant to hereof, such Lender's Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be automatically converted into Base Rate Loans on the last day(s) of the then current Interest Period(s) for such Eurocurrency Rate Loans (or, in the case of an immediate conversion required by , on such earlier date as required by Law) and, unless and until such Lender gives notice as provided below that the circumstances specified in through hereof that gave rise to such conversion no longer exist: (i) to the extent that such Lender's Eurocurrency Rate Loans have been so converted, all payments and prepayments of principal that w ould otherwise be applied to such Lender's Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be applied instead to its Base Rate Loans; and (ii) all Loans that would otherwise be made or continued from one Interest Period to another by such Lender as Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be made or continued instead as Base Rate Loans, and all Base Rate Loans of such Lender that would otherwise be converted into Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall remain as Base Rate Loans.
Section 3.07(b)
Section 3.02
Sections 3.01
3.04
(d)
If any Lender gives notice to the Company (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) that the circumstances specified in any of through that gave rise to the conversion of such Lender's Eurocurrency Rate Loans pursuant to this no longer exist (which such Lender agrees to do promptly upon such circumstances ceasing to exist) at a time when Eurocurrency Rate Loans made by other Lenders are outstanding, such Lender's Base Rate Loans shall be automatically converted, on the first day(s) of the next succeeding Interest Period(s) for such outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Loans, to the extent necessary so that, after giving effect thereto, all Loans held by the Lenders holding Eurocurrency Rate Loans and by such Lender are held pro rata (as to principal amounts, interest rate basis, and Interest Periods) in accordance with their respective Commitments.
Sections 3.01
3.04
Section 3.07
(e)
Each Lender agrees that if any Borrower is required to pay an additional amount to the Lender or to any Governmental Authority for the account of the Lender pursuant to Section 3.01, it will, if requested by the Company, use commercially reasonable efforts (subject to such Lender's internal policies and any legal or regulatory restrictions) to reduce or eliminate such payment, including to designate another Lending Office for any Loan or Letter of Credit affected and (ii) if any Lender (A) requests compensation under , or (B) notifies any Borrower that it has determined that it is unlawful for its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurocurrency Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate, then such Lender will, if requested by the Borrower, use commercially reasonable efforts to designate another Lending Office for any Loan or Letter of Credit affected by such event; provided that in each case, such efforts are made on terms that, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, cause such Lender and its Lending Office(s) to suffer no material economic, legal or regulatory disadvantage, and provided further that nothing in this
Section 3.04
Section
shall affect or postpone any of the Obligations of any Borrower or the rights of such Lender pursuant to , or .
3.07(e)
Section 3.01
3.02
3.04
3.08.
.  All of the Borrowers' obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments, repayment of all other Obligations hereunder, and resignation of the Administrative Agent.
Survival
Article III
4.01.
.  The obligation of the L/C Issuer and each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
Conditions of Initial Credit Extension
(a)
The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the signing Loan Party, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
(i)
executed counterparts of this Agreement and the Guaranties, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrowers;
(ii)
Notes executed by the Borrowers in favor of each Lender requesting Notes;
(iii)
such certificates of resolutions or other equivalent action and incumbency certificates of Responsible Officers of each Loan Party as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party;
(iv)
such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request to evidence that each Loan Party is validly existing and in good standing and qualified to engage in business in its jurisdiction of organization;
(v)
a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company certifying (A) that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied, (B) that there has been no event or circumstance since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; (C) the current Debt Ratings and (D) that, except as set forth on , there are no actions, suits, investigations or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened in any court or before any arbitrator or governmental authority that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
Schedule 5.06(b)
(vi)
opinions of (i) Tarrant Sibley, Esq., Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of the Company, substantially in the form of hereto, (ii)
Exhibit I-1
Alexander Emrich, Legal Director of Hasbro SA, substantially in the form of hereto and (iii) Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, special New York counsel to the Loan Parties, substantially in the form of hereto.
Exhibit I-2
Exhibit I-3
(b)
All accrued and invoiced fees and expenses of the Lead Arrangers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (including the fees and expenses of counsel for the Administrative Agent) required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
(c)
All obligations under the Existing Credit Agreement shall have been paid in full and the Existing Credit Agreement, including all commitments thereunder, shall have been terminated.
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.04
Section 4.01
4.02.
.  The obligation of each Lender to make any Credit Extension is subject to the following conditions precedent:
Conditions to all Credit Extensions
(a)
The representations and warranties of (i) the Borrowers contained in (except for the representations and warranties in and ) and (ii) each Loan Party contained in each other Loan Document, shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date.
Article V
Sections 5.05(c)
5.06
(b)
No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension.
(c)
The Administrative Agent and, if applicable, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
(d)
In the case of a Credit Extension to be denominated in an Alternative Currency, there shall not have occurred any change in national or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls which in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent would make it impracticable for such Credit Extension to be denominated in the relevant Alternative Currency.
Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans) submitted by any Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
Each Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
5.01.
.  Each Loan Party and each Significant Subsidiary thereof (a) is duly organized or formed, validly existing and, as applicable, in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority to (i) own or lease its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and (c) is duly qualified and is licensed and, as applicable, in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license; except in each case referred to in clause (a) (other than with respect to the Borrowers), (b)(i) or (c), to the extent that failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Existence, Qualification and Power
5.02.
.  The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of each Loan Document to which such Person is a party, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (a) contravene the terms of such Person's Organization Documents; (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any material Lien under any Contractual Obligation to which such Person is a party or affecting such Person or the properties of such Person or any of its Subsidiaries or (c) violate any Law or any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which such Person or its property is subject, except, in the cases of clauses (b) and (c) to the extent such conflict, breach, contravention, creation or violation would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Authorization; No Contravention
5.03.
.  No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, any Loan Party of this Agreement or any other Loan Document other than (i) those such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (ii) any filings of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission required to be made after the date hereof and (iii) such approvals, consents, exemptions, authorizations, actions or notices the failure of which to obtain or make would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Governmental Authorization; Other Consents
5.04.
.  This Agreement and each other Loan Document have been duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party that is party thereto.  This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document constitutes, a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party, enforceable against each Loan Party that is party thereto in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights or remedies generally and by general principles of equity and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
Binding Effect
5.05.
Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect; No Internal Control Event.
(a)
The Audited Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP and (ii) present fairly in all material respects the financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and for the indicated period;
(b)
The unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of September 26, 2010, and the related unaudited consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP and (ii) present fairly in all material respects the financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of such date and for the indicated period, subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments.  
(c)
Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that had or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.06.
.  There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened in writing at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority by or against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that (a) provides a reasonable basis for questioning the validity or the enforceability of any Loan Document or (b) except as disclosed in , either individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation
Schedule 5.06(b)
5.07.
.  No Default has occurred and is continuing.  
No Default
5.08.
.  Except as disclosed in , Each of the Company and each Significant Subsidiary has good record and marketable title to, or valid leasehold interests in, or easements or other limited property interests in, all real property necessary in the ordinary conduct of its business, except for Liens permitted by and except where the failure to have such title or interest would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Ownership of Property; Liens
Schedule 5.08
Section 7.01
5.09.
.  Except as disclosed in , there are no claims pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened in writing against the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries alleging liability or responsibility of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries for violation of any Environmental Law by their respective businesses, operations and properties that would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Environmental Compliance
Schedule 5.09
5.10.
.  The Company and its Subsidiaries have filed all Federal, state and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all Federal, state and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP, except (i) as disclosed on or (ii) which, collectively, could not exceed the Threshold Amount.  Except as disclosed on , there is no actual or proposed tax assessment against the Company or any
Taxes
Schedule 5.10
Schedule 5.10
Subsidiary that would, if made or paid, have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither any Loan Party nor any Subsidiary thereof is party to any tax sharing agreement.
5.11.
ERISA Compliance.
(a)
Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state laws.  Each Pension Plan that is intended to be a qualified plan under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that the form of such Plan is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and the trust related thereto has been determined by the Internal Revenue Service to be exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(a) of the Code, or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the Internal Revenue Service.  To the knowledge of the Company, nothing has occurred that would prevent or cause the loss of such tax-qualified status.  
(b)
There are no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened claims, actions or  lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(c)
(i)  No ERISA Event has occurred, and neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has knowledge of any fact, event or circumstance that could reasonably be expected to constitute or result in an ERISA Event with respect to any Pension Plan which could reasonably be expected to result in liability exceeding the Threshold Amount; (ii) the Company and each ERISA Affiliate has met in all material respects all applicable requirements under the Pension Funding Rules in respect of each Pension Plan, and no waiver of the minimum funding standards under the Pension Funding Rules has been applied for or obtained; (iii) as of the most recent valuation date for any Pension Plan, the funding target attainment percentage (as defined in Section 430(d)(2) of the Code) is 60% or higher and neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate knows of any facts or circumstances that could re asonably be expected to cause the funding target attainment percentage for any such plan to drop below 60% as of the most recent valuation date; (iv) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred any liability to the PBGC other than for the payment of premiums, and there are no premium payments which have become due that are unpaid; and (v) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Section 4069 or Section 4212(c) of ERISA.
5.12.
.  As of the Closing Date, the Company has no Significant Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in .  
Subsidiaries
Schedule 5.12
5.13.
Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act.
(a)
No proceeds of any Credit Extension will be used to purchase, acquire or carry any margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB) in violation of the provisions of the regulations of the FRB.
(b)
No Loan Party is required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
5.14.
.  As of the Closing Date, the reports, financial statements, certificates and other written information furnished by or on behalf of any Loan Party to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered by or on behalf or any Loan Party hereunder or under any other Loan Document (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) (other than the Projections, estimates and information of a general economic nature) (taken as a whole, the "") as of the date of this Agreement do not, taken as a whole, contain any material misstatement of fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not materially misleading; that, with respect to projections, estimates, budgets and other forward-looking information (taken as a whole, the "), the Borrowers represent and warrant, as of the Closing Date, only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed by the Company to be reasonable at the time of preparation, it being recognized by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that (a) such Projections are not to be viewed as facts and that actual results during the period or periods covered by any such projections may differ significantly from the projected or forecasted results and that such differences may be material and that such Projections are not a guarantee of financial performance and (b) no representation is made with respect to information of a general economic or general industry nature.  
Disclosure
Information
provided
Projections
5.15.
.  Each Loan Party and each Significant Subsidiary thereof is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, (b) except as disclosed on , or (c) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws
Schedule 5.15
5.16.
Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is an entity on the "Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons" list maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Treasury Department.
Foreign Assets Control Regulations, Etc.  
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any other Obligation hereunder which is accrued and payable shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding or not otherwise provided for in full in a manner provided for herein or as otherwise reasonably satisfactory to the relevant L/C Issuer, the Company shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in , , and ) cause each Significant Subsidiary to:
Sections 6.01
6.02
6.03
6.01.
.  Deliver to the Administrative Agent for further prompt distribution to the Lenders:
Financial Statements
(a)
as soon as available, but in any event no later than 100 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated statement of operations and the
consolidated statement of cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, audited and accompanied by a report of KPMG, LLP or other registered public accounting firm of nationally recognized standing selected by the Company, which report shall be prepared in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) and shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit; and
(b)
as soon as available, but in any event not later than 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Company's fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, certified by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Company as fairly presenting in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries in acc ordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Company shall not be separately required to furnish such information under clause (a) or (b) above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Company to furnish the information and materials described in clauses (a) and (b) above at the times specified therein.
Section 6.02
6.02.
.  Deliver to the Administrative Agent for further prompt distribution to the Lenders:
Certificates; Other Information
(a)
concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and , a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Company;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
(b)
promptly after the same are available, copies of each report or financial statement sent to the stockholders of the Company generally, and copies of all regular and periodic reports which the Company may file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto; and
(c)
promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender through the Administrative Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Company posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(b)
Company's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Company's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that the Company shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Company to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender.  In every instance the Company shall be required to provide, whether electronically or otherwise, executed copies of the Compliance Certificates required by to the Administrative Agent.  Ex cept for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Company with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Schedule 10.02
provided
Section 6.02(a)
Each Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Lead Arrangers will make available to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of such Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders ( Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to any Borrower or its securities) (each, a "").  The Administrative Agent hereby agrees that when it posts such Borrower Materials on the Platform, it will post such Borrower Materials in the form such Borrower provided such Borrower Materials to the Administrative Agent.   Each Borrower hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders must be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrowers shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Lead Arrangers, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrowers or their respective securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in Section ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor;" and (z) the Administra tive Agent and the Lead Arrangers shall treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor."  Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the contrary herein or in any other Loan Document, no Loan Party is under any obligation to mark any Borrower Materials as "PUBLIC."
Borrower Materials
Platform
i.e.,
Public Lender
provided
however
10.07
6.03.
.  Promptly upon any Responsible Officer obtaining knowledge thereof, notify the Administrative Agent:
Notices
(a)
of the occurrence of any Default;
(b)
(i) of any violation of any Environmental Law that the Company or any of its Subsidiaries reports in writing or is reportable by such Person in writing (or for which any
written report supplemental to any oral report is made) to any Governmental Authority that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and (ii) upon becoming aware thereof, of any inquiry, proceeding, investigation, or other action, including a notice from any agency of potential environmental liability, of any Governmental Authority that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
(c)
of any litigation or proceedings pending or threatened in writing affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries involving an uninsured claim against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
(d)
of the occurrence of any ERISA Event that would reasonably be expected to result in liability exceeding the Threshold Amount;
(e)
of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Company not required by GAAP or applicable law; and
(f)
of any announcement by Fitch, Moody's or S&P of any change in a Debt Rating.
Each notice pursuant to this (other than shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Company setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Company has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto.  The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any notices it receives pursuant to this .
Section 6.03
Section 6.03(f)
Section 6.03
6.04.
.  Pay and discharge or otherwise satisfy prior to the time when any penalty or fine shall be incurred with respect thereto (a) all tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets and (b) all other lawful claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property (other than any Lien permitted under Section 7.01), except, in the case of clauses (a) and (b) to the extent failure to pay or discharge the same would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and adequate reserves, if any, required by GAAP are being maintained by the Company or such Significant Subsidiary.
Payment of Obligations
6.05.
.  Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction permitted by ; that the legal existence or good standing of any Significant Subsidiary other than the Designated Borrower may be terminated or permitted to lapse if the Company determines in good faith that such termination or lapse is in the best interests of the Company and is not materially disadvantageous to the Lenders.
Preservation of Existence, Etc
Section 7.03
provided
6.06.
.  Except where the failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (a) maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted and (b) make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof in accordance with sound industry practice.
Maintenance of Properties
6.07.
.  Maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by similarly situated Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts (after giving effect to any self-insurance) as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons, that the Company and any of its Significant Subsidiaries may maintain a program of self insurance in accordance with sound business practices.
Maintenance of Insurance
provided
6.08.
.  Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, (b) except as disclosed on , or (c) the failure to comply therewith would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws
Schedule 6.08
6.09.
.  Maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP and, in the case of a Foreign Subsidiary, applicable statutory reporting requirements, consistently applied shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Company or such Significant Subsidiary, as the case may be, as and to the extent required thereby.
Books and Records
6.10.
.  Permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender at the expense of that Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers, and independent public accountants, all at such reasonable times during normal business hours, upon reasonable advance notice to the Company; , , that unless an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may only exercise its inspection rights hereunder twice per fiscal year; , that representatives of the Company may be present during such inspections and discussions at all times prior to the occurrence of a Default or Event of Default.  
Inspection Rights
provided
however
provided
further
6.11.
.  Use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions for (i) general corporate purposes, including, without limitation, financing working capital, commercial paper backup, capital expenditures and other lawful purposes and (ii) to refinance the Borrowers' indebtedness under the Existing Credit Agreement.
Use of Proceeds
6.12.
Additional Subsidiary Guarantors.  
(a)
Notify the Administrative Agent at the time that a Domestic Subsidiary (other than a Domestic Subsidiary that is a direct or indirect Subsidiary of a Foreign Subsidiary) is created or acquired after the date of this Agreement and meets the conditions set forth in the definition of "Significant Subsidiary", and promptly thereafter (and in any event within 60 days after such creation or acquisition), cause such Person to (i) become a Subsidiary Guarantor by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of the Subsidiary Guaranty or such other document as shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent for such purpose, and (ii) deliver to the Administrative Agent documents of the types referred to in
clauses (iii) and (iv) of , all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Section 4.01(a)
(b)
On or before January 31, 2011, cause Hasbro International, Inc. to become a Subsidiary Guarantor by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent each of the documents required in connection therewith pursuant to clause (a) of this .
Section 6.12
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any other Obligation hereunder which is accrued and payable shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding or not otherwise provided for in full in a manner provided for herein or as otherwise reasonably satisfactory to the relevant L/C Issuer:
7.01.
.  The Company shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary (other than any Foreign Subsidiary) to, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
Liens
(a)
Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;
(b)
Liens existing on the date hereof and any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, thereof; , , that (i) such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or part of the property which secured the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on such property), (ii) the amount secured or benefited thereby is not increased except to the extent the increased amount of Indebtedness would be permitted under , (iii) the direct or indirect obligor with respect thereto is not changed, and (iv) any renewal or extension of the obligations secured or benefited thereby is permitted by ;
provided
however
Section 7.02
Section 7.02(d)
(c)
Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges not overdue for a period of more than 60 days or, if more than 60 days overdue, (i) which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings ( that adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the Company or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, in conformity with GAAP), (ii) which secure payments disclosed on , or (iii) with respect to which failure to make payment would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
provided
Schedule 7.01(c)
(d)
carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's, supplier's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business securing amounts which are not overdue for a period of more than 60 days or, if more than 60 days overdue (i) such Lien is being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person or (ii) the failure to pay such amounts would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
(e)
(i) Liens incurred in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation, (ii) Liens incurred in the ordinary course of business securing insurance premiums or reimbursement obligations under insurance policies or (iii) obligations in respect of letters of credit or bank guarantees that have been posted to support the payment of the items set forth in clauses (i) and (ii) of this ;
Section 7.01(e)
(f)
deposits or pledges to secure the performance of bids, tenders, trade contracts and leases (other than for borrowed money), statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, indemnity bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(g)
easements, rights-of-way, zoning restrictions, restrictions on the use of real property and defects and irregularities in the title thereto, landlord's or lessor's liens under leases to which the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company is a party, and other similar encumbrances and minor liens, none of which in the opinion of the Company interferes materially with the use of the property affected in the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries and which defects do not individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect;
(h)
Liens securing judgments for the payment of money not constituting an Event of Default under ;
Section 8.01(h)
(i)
Liens on assets acquired, constructed or improved by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, , , that (i) such Liens secure Indebtedness permitted by , and (ii) such Liens shall not apply to any other property or assets of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; and
provided
however
Section 7.02(g)
(j)
Liens on the property or assets of a Person which is merged into or becomes a Subsidiary of the Company after the date hereof and, with respect to Significant Subsidiaries, securing Indebtedness of such Significant Subsidiary permitted under provided that (i) such Liens existed at the time of such merger or at the time such Person became such a Subsidiary and were not created in anticipation thereof, (ii) any such Lien does not extend to cover any other property or assets of the Company or any Subsidiary and (iii) such Liens do not secure obligations exceeding $75,000,000 in aggregate amount at any time outstanding;
Section 7.02(h)
(k)
Liens existing on assets or properties at the time of the acquisition thereof by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company which were not created in anticipation of the acquisition thereof by the Company or such Subsidiary, and which (i) do not extend to or cover any assets or property of the Company or such Subsidiary other than the assets or property being acquired or (ii) secure any Indebtedness not permitted under ;
Section 7.02
(l)
any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, of any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (i), (j) and (k); , , that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or part of the property which secured the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on such property);
provided
however
(m)
rights of setoff and similar arrangements in favor of depository and securities intermediaries to secure customary fees and similar amounts related to bank accounts or securities accounts;
(n)
any encumbrance or restriction (including, without limitation, put and call agreements and transfer restrictions, but not pledges) with respect to the Capital Stock of any joint venture or similar arrangement created pursuant to the joint venture or similar agreements with respect to such joint venture or similar arrangement;
(o)
[intentionally deleted]  
(p)
 other rights and interests with respect to the shares of Capital Stock of Infogrames to secure the Company's obligations under a collar or other hedging agreement between the Company and a third party to hedge against fluctuations in the price of such shares;
(q)
Liens on assets of any Foreign Subsidiary securing Indebtedness of any Foreign Subsidiary permitted by ;
Section 7.02 (j)
(r)
Liens created pursuant to and in accordance with any Permitted Receivables Securitization Facility and Liens created in connection with Recourse Obligations for credit enhancement or liquidity purposes, pursuant to any agreement pursuant to which the Company and certain of its Subsidiaries agree to sell, assign, pledge and transfer to a credit insurance provider or other similar entities certain Recourse Obligations; and
(s)
other Liens on assets which secure obligations not exceeding $50,000,000 in aggregate amount at any time outstanding.
7.02.
.  The Borrowers shall not, nor shall the Company permit any Significant Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness, except:
Indebtedness
(a)
Indebtedness under the Loan Documents;
(b)
Non-Priority Indebtedness of the Company;
(c)
Non-Priority Indebtedness of Significant Subsidiaries of the Company not exceeding 25% of Consolidated Net Worth at any time;
(d)
Indebtedness outstanding on the date hereof and listed on and any refinancings, refundings, renewals or extensions thereof; that the amount of such Indebtedness is not increased at the time of such refinancing, refunding, renewal or extension except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such refinancing and by an amount equal to any existing commitments unutilized thereunder; that the direct or contingent obligor with respect to such Indebtedness is not changed.
Schedule 7.02
provided
provided
further
(e)
Indebtedness of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary to the Company or any Subsidiary;
(f)
guarantees of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary in respect of Indebtedness or other obligations otherwise permitted hereunder of the Company or of any other Subsidiary;
(g)
Indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or improvement of any fixed or capital assets, including under Capitalized Leases and Synthetic Leases, and any Indebtedness assumed in connection with the acquisition of any assets or secured by a Lien on such assets prior to the acquisition thereof, and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof, that the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Indebtedness permitted by this clause (g) shall not at any one time exceed $50,000,000 (but, if recourse to such Person is limited to such property, then the amount of such Indebtedness of such Person shall be deemed to be limited to the lesser of (i) the outstanding amount of such secured Indebtedness, and (ii) the fair market value of the property subject to such Li en);
provided
(h)
Indebtedness of any Person that becomes a Significant Subsidiary or that is merged with or into the Company or a Significant Subsidiary after the date hereof or related to assets or properties described in Section 7.01(k), that such Indebtedness exists (i) at the time such Person becomes a Significant Subsidiary and is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Person becoming a Significant Subsidiary, or (ii) at the time the property or asset is acquired, as applicable, and is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Person becoming a Significant Subsidiary;
provided
(i)
Indebtedness in connection with any Permitted Receivables Securitization Facility and Indebtedness created in connection with Recourse Obligations for credit enhancement or liquidity purposes, pursuant to any agreement pursuant to which the Company and certain of its Subsidiaries agree to sell, assign, pledge and transfer to a credit insurance provider or other similar entities certain Recourse Obligations; and
(j)
Indebtedness of Foreign Subsidiaries other than the Designated Borrower; and
(k)
other Indebtedness of the Company or its Significant Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $50,000,000 at any time outstanding.
7.03.
.  The Borrowers shall not, nor shall the Company  permit any Significant Subsidiary to, merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, agree to or effect any acquisition of at least a majority of the Capital Stock or all or substantially all of the assets of any Person or any division or line of business of any Person, or Dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any Person, except that:
Fundamental Changes
(a)
so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom, the Company may merge or consolidate with any other Person provided that the Company shall be the continuing or surviving Person;
(b)
any Significant Subsidiary may merge with (i) the Company, that the Company shall be the continuing or surviving Person, (ii) any one or more other Subsidiaries, that when any Subsidiary Guarantor is merging with another Subsidiary, a Subsidiary
provided
provided
Guarantor shall be the continuing or surviving Person, or (iii) any other Person provided that such Significant Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving Person;
(c)
any Significant Subsidiary may Dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Company or to another Subsidiary; that if the transferor in such a transaction is a Subsidiary Guarantor, then the transferee must either (i) be or simultaneously with such transaction become (by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a joinder agreement, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, to the Guaranty) a Subsidiary Guarantor or (ii) be the Company;
provided
(d)
so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom, the Company or a Significant Subsidiary may acquire the stock or other securities of, or the majority of assets of, any Person, that, if the consideration for such acquisition exceeds $100,000,000, not less than five (5) Business Days prior to the consummation of such proposed acquisition, the Company shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a certificate demonstrating compliance on a Pro Forma Basis with the financial covenants set forth in hereof; and
provided
Section 7.05
(e)
the Company or any Significant Subsidiary may acquire Capital Stock of any Subsidiary of the Company existing on the Effective Date from any then existing minority holder thereof.
7.04.
.  The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Significant Subsidiaries to, engage in any material transaction with any Affiliate that is not the Company or a Subsidiary (other than in connection with services as employees, officers and directors), including any material contract, agreement or other arrangement providing for the furnishing of services to or by, providing for rental of real or personal property to or from, or otherwise requiring payments to or from any such Affiliate, on terms materially more favorable to such Person than would have been obtainable on an arm's-length basis in the ordinary course of business, excluding (a) any transaction with an Affiliate controlled by the Company entered into in the ordinary course of business, (b) any transaction relating to the issuance of any class of Capital Stock of the Company, and (c) any transaction entered into in connection with a Permitted Receivables Securitization Facility.
Transactions with Affiliates
7.05.
Financial Covenants.
(a)
The Company shall not permit the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Company to be less than 3.50:1.00.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio.  
(b)
.  The Company shall not permit the ratio of (i) Consolidated Total Funded Debt at the end of any fiscal quarter set forth in the table set forth below to (ii) Consolidated EBITDA for the Measurement Period then ended to exceed the ratio set forth opposite such fiscal quarter in  the table below; that such ratio shall be calculated on a Pro Forma Basis for any Measurement Period including the fiscal quarter in which an acquisition or disposition occurs for which, in the case of an acquisition, the
Total Funded Debt to Consolidated EBITDA
provided
purchase price exceeds $100,000,000 or, in the case of a disposition, the fair market value of assets or business disposed exceeds $50,000,000:
8.01.
.  Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
Events of Default
(a)
.  Any Borrower or any other Loan Party fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, any amount of principal of any Loan or  any L/C Obligation, or (ii) within five days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan or on any L/C Obligation, or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) within 30 days after the date for payment specified on the invoice therefor, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
(b)
.  The Company fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of or ARTICLE VII; or
Specific Covenants
Section
6.05
(c)
.  (i) Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement in or on its part to be performed or observed, and such failure continues for 15 days, or (ii) any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in subsection (a) or (b) or clause (i) above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for 30 days after receipt of notice from the Administrative Agent or any Lender of such Default; or
Other Defaults
Sections 6.01
6.02
(d)
.  Any representation or warranty made or deemed made by the Company or any other Loan Party herein, or in any other Loan Document, or in any certificate or document required to be furnished pursuant to any Loan Document shall be materially incorrect when made or deemed made; or
Representations and Warranties
(e)
.  The Company or any Subsidiary (A) fails to make any payment when due, after giving effect to any applicable grace period (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) in respect of any Indebtedness for borrowed money or credit received or in respect of any Capitalized Leases or in respect of any guaranties by the Company or any Subsidiary of any such Indebtedness of another Person (other than Indebtedness hereunder) having an aggregate principal amount of more than the Threshold Amount, or (B) defaults (after giving effect to any applicable grace period, and unless waived) with respect to any other agreement relating to any such Indebtedness having an aggregate principal amount of more than the Threshold Amount, the effect of which default is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indeb tedness (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such
Cross-Default
holder or holders) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity; or
(f)
 Any Loan Party or any of its Significant Subsidiaries institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any applicable Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or consents to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under applicable Debtor Relief Laws; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar custodian is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding which order is not stayed; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc.
(g)
.  The Company or any Significant Subsidiary admits in writing its inability, or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
(h)
.  There is entered against the Company or any Significant Subsidiary (i) one or more final judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount (as to all such judgments or orders) exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage) and there is a period of 60 consecutive days during which such judgment(s) remain undischarged, unvacated, unbonded or unstayed; or
Judgments
(i)
.  (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or would reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Company under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount, or (ii) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period and any extension of time for payment in connection with a dispute under Title IV of ERISA, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan with respect to which it has withdrawal liability in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount; or
ERISA
(j)
.  Any material provision of any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Credit Extensions and all other Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or any Loan Party contests in writing the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document; or any Loan Party denies in writing that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or revokes, terminates or rescinds in writing any Loan Document, except in each case to the extent in accordance with the terms of such Loan Document; or
Invalidity of Loan Documents
(k)
.  There occurs any Change of Control.
Change of Control
8.02.
.  If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
Remedies Upon Event of Default
(a)
declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
(b)
declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers;
(c)
require that the Company Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations (in an amount equal to the then Outstanding Amount thereof); and
(d)
exercise on behalf of itself, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer all rights and remedies available to it, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under the Loan Documents;
, , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, and the obligation of the Company to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations as aforesaid shall automatically become effective, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
8.03.
.  After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable and the L/C Obligations have automatically been required to be Cash Collateralized as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall, subject to the provisions of and and , be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
Application of Funds
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
Sections 2.18(c)
(d)
2.19(a)(ii)
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent payable under and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Section 10.04(a)
Article III
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest and Letter of Credit Fees) payable to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer (including  fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and the L/C Issuer payable under and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Section 10.04(a)
Article III
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid Letter of Credit Fees and interest on the Loans and L/C Borrowings, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans and L/C Borrowings, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them;
Fourth
Fourth
, to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer, to Cash Collateralize that portion of L/C Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit to the extent not otherwise Cash Collateralized by the Borrowers pursuant to and ; and
Fifth
Sections 2.04
2.18
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations then due and owing have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrowers or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
Subject to and and , amounts used to Cash Collateralize the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur.  If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be applied to the other Obligations, if any, in the order set forth above.
Sections 2.04(c)
2.18(c)
(d)
Fifth
9.01.
.  Each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  Except with respect to and , the provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, and neither any Borrower nor any other Loan Party shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
Appointment and Authority
Sections 9.06
9.07
9.02.
.  The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity.  Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrowers or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Rights as a Lender
9.03.
.  The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
Exculpatory Provisions
(a)
shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b)
shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
(c)
shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to any of the Borrowers or any of their respective Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by a Borrower, a Lender or the L/C Issuer.
Sections 10.01
8.02
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
9.04.
.  The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and, absent bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct, shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) reasonably believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person.  The Administrative Agent also
Reliance by Administrative Agent
may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and reasonably believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and, absent bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct, shall not incur any liability for relying thereon.  In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or the L/C Issuer unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or the L/C Issuer prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance of such Letter of Credit.  The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Company), independent accountants a nd other experts selected by it with reasonable care, and, absent bad faith, gross negligence and willful misconduct, shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
9.05.
.  The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties.  The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
Delegation of Duties
9.06.
.  The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Borrowers.  Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, with the consent of the Borrowers unless an Event of Default is continuing (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States.  If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, with the consent of the Borrowers (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set for th above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrowers and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and the L/C Issuer directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section.  Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section).  The fees payable by the Company to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Company and such
Resignation of Administrative Agent
provided
successor.  After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
Section 10.04
Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.  Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, (b) the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (c) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to the retiring L/C Issuer to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer with respect to such Letters of Credit.
9.07.
.  Each Lender and the L/C Issuer acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, operations, property, financial and other conditions and creditworthiness of the Loan Parties and its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement.  Each Lender and the L/C Issuer also acknowledges and agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Loan Parties and its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
9.08.
.  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Lead Arrangers, Book Managers, Co-Syndication Agents or Co-Documentation Agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, a Lender or the L/C Issuer hereunder.
No Other Duties, Etc
9.09.
.  In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on any Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
(a)
to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, L/C Obligations and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the
claims of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent under and , 2.10 and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.04(i)
(j)
10.04
(b)
to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and the L/C Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel as provided herein, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.10
10.04
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or the L/C Issuer any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or the L/C Issuer to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender or the L/C Issuer in any such proceeding.
9.10.
 The Lenders and the L/C Issuer irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent, at its option and in its discretion, to release any Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty if such Person ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder.
Guaranty Matters.
Upon request by the Administrative Agent at any time, the Required Lenders will confirm in writing the Administrative Agent's authority to release any Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty pursuant to this .
Section 9.10
10.01.
.  No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrowers or any other Loan Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Borrowers or the applicable Loan Party, as the case may be, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
Amendments, Etc
provided
however
(a)
extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
(b)
postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment (excluding mandatory prepayments) of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to
the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
(c)
reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or L/C Borrowing, or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary (i) to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of any Borrower or any other Person to pay interest or Letter of Credit Fees at the Default Rate or (ii) to amend any financial covenant hereunder (or any defined term used therein) even if the effect of such amendment would be to reduce the rate of interest on any Loan or L/C Borrowing or to reduce any fee payable hereunder;
provided
however
(d)
change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
Section 2.14
Section 8.03
(e)
amend or the definition of "Alternative Currency" in either case to add additional currencies without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
Section 1.06
(f)
change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" without the written consent of each Lender; or
(g)
release the Company from the Company Guaranty or all or substantially all of the value of the Subsidiary Guaranty without the written consent of each Lender, except to the extent the release of any Guarantor is permitted pursuant to (in which case such release may be made by the Administrative Agent acting alone);
Section 9.10
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the L/C Issuer in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the L/C Issuer under this Agreement; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Swing Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Swing Line Lender under this Agreement; (iii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (iv) may not be amended, waived or otherwise modified without the consent of each Granting Lender all or any part of whose Loans are being funded by an SPC at the time of such amendment, waiver or other modification.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder or under any other Loan Document (and any amendment, waiver or consent which by its terms requires the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender may be effected with the consent of the applicable Lenders other than Defaulting Lenders), except that (x) the Commitment of any Defaulting Lender may not be increased or extendedwithout the consent of such Lender and (y) any waiver, amendment, or modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender, only if by its terms it affects any Defaulting Lender more adversely than other affected Lenders, shall require the consent of the Defaulting Lender.
provided
further
Section 10.06(h)
If any assignee Lender is an Affiliate of the Company, then any such assignee Lender shall have no right to vote as a Lender hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents for purposes of granting consents or waivers or for purposes of agreeing to amendments or other modifications to any of the Loan Documents or for purposes of making requests to the Administrative Agent pursuant to or , and the determination of the Required Lenders shall for all purposes of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents be made without regard to such assignee Lender's interest in any of the Loans or L/C Obligations.  If any Lender sells a participating interest in any of the Loans or L/C Obligations to a participant, and such participant is the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, then such transferor Lender shall prompt ly notify the Administrative Agent of the sale of such participation.  A transferor Lender shall have no right to vote as a Lender hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents for purposes of granting consents or waivers or for purposes of agreeing to amendments or modifications to any of the Loan Documents or for purposes of making requests to the Administrative Agent pursuant to or to the extent that such participation is beneficially owned by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company, and the determination of the Required Lenders shall for all purposes of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents be made without regard to the interest of such transferor Lender in the Loans or L/C Obligations to the extent of such participation.  The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to an assignee Lender or participant which is also a Lender on the Effective Date or to an assignee Lender or participant which has disclosed to the other Lenders that it is an Aff iliate of the Company and which, following such disclosure, has been excepted from the provisions of this paragraph in a writing signed by the Required Lenders determined without regard to the interest of such assignee Lender or transferor Lender, to the extent of such participation, in Loans or L/C Obligations.
Section 8.01
8.02
Section 8.01
8.02
10.02.
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication.
(a)
.  Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
(i)
if to a Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
(ii)
if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire as provided to the Administrative Agent and the Company (including, as appropriate, notices delivered solely to the Person designated by a Lender on its Administrative Questionnaire then in effect for the delivery of notices that may contain material non-public information relating to the Borrower).
Notices and other communications sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices and other
communications sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient).  Notices and other communications delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
(b)
.  Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to if such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication.  Each of the Administrative Agent or the Borrowers may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular n otices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
Unless the Administrative Agent and the Company otherwise agree, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is a vailable and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
(c)
.  THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE."  THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS.  NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM.  In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to any Borrower, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other Person for losses, claims, d amages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of any Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to any Borrower, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
(d)
.  Each of the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.  Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender.  In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender.  Furthermore, each Public Lende r agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the "Private Side Information" or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lender's compliance procedures and applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the "Public Side Information" portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrowers or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
Change of Address, Etc
(e)
.The Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders, if acting in good faith and without gross negligence or willful misconduct, shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Committed Loan Notices and Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof.  The Borrowers shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each noti ce purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower in the absence of bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct.  
Reliance by Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lenders
 
10.03.
.  No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege.  The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other Loan Document, the authority to enforce rights and remedies hereunder and under the other Loan Documents against the Loan Parties or any of them shall be vested exclusively in, and all actions and proceedings at law in connection with such enforcement shall be instituted and maintained exclusively by, the Administrative Agent in accordance with for the benefit of all the Lenders and the L/C Issuer; , , that the foregoing shall not prohibit (a) the Administrative Agent
Section 8.02
provided
however
from exercising on its own behalf the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as Administrative Agent) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (b) the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender from exercising the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (c) any Lender from exercising setoff rights in accordance with (subject to the terms of ), or (d) any Lender from filing proofs of claim or appearing and filing pleadings on its own behalf during the pendency of a proceeding relative to any Loan Party under any Debtor Relief Law; and , , that if at any time there is no Person acting as Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, then (i) the Required Lenders shall have the rights otherwise ascribed to the Administrative Agent pursuant to and (ii) in addition to the matters set forth in clauses (b), (c) and (d) of the preceding proviso and subject to , any Lender may, with the consent of the Required Lenders, enforce any rights and remedies available to it and as authorized by the Required Lenders.
Section 10.08
Section 2.14
provided
further
Section 8.02
Section 2.14
10.04.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
(a)
.  Other than with respect to Taxes, which shall be governed solely by , the Company shall pay or reimburse (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of a single domestic firm and, if reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent and approved by the Company, a single foreign firm, of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), and (ii)  all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Lenders or the L/C Issuer (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of a single domestic firm and, if reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent, a single foreign firm, of counsel for the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, unless a conflict exists, in which case, reasonable fees and expenses of reasonably necessary additional counsel for the affected Lender(s) shall be covered), in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Costs and Expenses
Section 3.01
(b)
.  Other than with respect to Taxes, which shall be governed solely by , the Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), and each Lender and the L/C Issuer, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of (A) a single domestic firm and, if reasonably requested by the relevant Indemnitees and approved by the Company (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), a single foreign firm, of counsel for the Indemnitees, unless a conflict exists, in which case, reasonable fees and expenses of reasonably necessary additional couns el for the affected Indemnitee(s) shall be covered), incurred by any
Indemnification by the Company
Section 3.01
Indemnitee
Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by any Borrower or any other Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the L/C Issuer to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such dema nd do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Company or any other Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment (or settlement tantamount thereto) to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee, (y)  result from a claim brought by the Company or any other Loan Party against an Indemnitee for breach of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Company or such other Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction (or settlement tantamount thereto) or (z) arise from claims of any Lenders solely against one or more Lenders that have not resulted from any misrepresentation, default or breach of any of the Loan Documents by the Loan Parties.  For purposes hereof, a "Related Person" of an indemnified person means (i) if the indemnified person is the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties, any of the Administrative Agent and its Related Parties, (ii) if the indemnified person is a Lender or any of its Related Parties, any of such Lender and its Related Parties.
provided
(c)
.  To the extent that the Company for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), the L/C Issuer or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), the L/C Issuer or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or the L/C Issuer in its capacity a s such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or L/C Issuer in connection with such capacity.  The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
Section 2.13(d)
(d)
 To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no party hereto shall assert, and each party hereto hereby waives, any claim
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc.
against any other party, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof.  No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through Intralinks, electronic or other similar information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual dam ages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or any of its Related Persons as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction (or settlement tantamount thereto).
(e)
.  All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than 30 days after submission of an invoice therefor.
Payments
(f)
.  The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
10.05.
.  To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of any Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender and the L/C Issuer severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (witho ut duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, in the applicable currency of such recovery or payment.  The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Payments Set Aside
10.06.
Successors and Assigns.
(a)
.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that neither any Borrower nor any other Loan Party may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the
Successors and Assigns Generally
provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section, (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this Section, or (iv) to an SPC in accordance with the provisions of subsection (h) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void).  Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
(b)
.  Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this subsection (b), participations in L/C Obligations and in Swing Line Loans) at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
(i)
.
Minimum Amounts
(A)
in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B)
in any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $10,000,000unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Company otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single assignee (or to an assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
provided
however
(ii)
.  Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not apply to the Swing Line Lender's rights and obligations in respect of Swing Line Loans;
Proportionate Amounts
(iii)
.  No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
(A)
the consent of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; provided that the Company shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Administrative Agent within five (5) Business Days after having received written notice thereof;
(B)
the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender;
(C)
the consent of the L/C Issuer (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment that increases the obligation of the assignee to participate in exposure under one or more Letters of Credit (whether or not then outstanding); and
(D)
the consent of the Swing Line Lender (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment.
(iv)
.  The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount, if any, required as set forth in ; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment.  The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire (and the Administrative Agent shall promptly deliver a copy thereof to the Company).
Assignment and Assumption
Schedule 10.06
provided
however
(v)
.  No such assignment shall be made (A) to any Borrower or any of the Borrowers' Subsidiaries, or (B) to any Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in this clause (B), or (C) to a natural person.
No Assignment to Certain Persons
(vi)
.  The assigning Lender shall deliver all Notes evidencing the assigned interests to the Company or the Administrative Agent (and the Administrative Agent shall deliver such Notes to the Company).
Notes
(vii)
.  In relation to any Borrower that is organized under the law of Switzerland, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall ensure that assignments or transfers may not be effected if after giving effect to such assignments or transfers there would be more than 20 Lenders (including participants and subparticipants) that are not Qualifying Banks in relation to any such Borrower.
Qualifying Banks
(viii)
.  No such assignment shall be made to any Person that would result in the imposition of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes in excess of the Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes that would be imposed in the absence of such assignment.  
No Assignment Resulting in Additional Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes
(ix)
.  In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Administrative Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Company and the Administrative Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Loans previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon) and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Loans and participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable Law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
Certain Additional Payments
(x)
.  Any Affiliate or Approved Fund that is assigned any portion of any Commitment or Loan hereunder will not charge the Borrowers any fees or costs in connection with any funding obligations, including the funding of Alternative Currencies, that are higher than those charged by the assigning Lender.  Nothing in this clause (x) shall otherwise be deemed to alter or affect in any manner the Company's reimbursement obligations under Article II in respect of such assignee.  
Costs and Fees
(xi)
.  At all times prior to the occurrence of a Default or Event of Default, any assignee hereunder shall certify upon acceptance of the assignment that it will make available to the Borrowers all Alternate Currencies specified in this Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth herein.  
Alternate Currencies
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be subject to the obligations under and entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
effective date of such assignment.  Upon request, each Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender.  Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
(c)
.  The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers (and such agency being solely for tax purposes), shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans and L/C Obligations owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "").  Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the processing and recordation fee referred to in subsection (b) of this and any written consent to such assignment required by subsection (b) of this , the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Acceptance and record the information contained therein in the Register.  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, absent demonstrable error, and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary.  In addition, the Administrative Agent shall maintain on the Register information regarding the designation, and revocation of designation, of any Lender as a Defaulting Lender  The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrowers and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
Section 10.06
Section 10.06
.
(d)
.  Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, any Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person, a Defaulting Lender or the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lender's participations in L/C Obligations and/or Swing Line Loans) owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the Lende rs and the L/C Issuer shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in clauses (a), (b) or (c) of the first proviso to that directly affects such Participant (it being understood that (i) any vote to rescind any acceleration made pursuant to of amounts owing with respect to the Loans and other Obligations and (ii) any modifications of the provisions relating to amounts, timing or application of prepayments of Loans and other Obligations shall not require the
provided
Section 10.01
Section 8.02
approval of such Participant).  Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, each Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent (subject to the requirements in those sections, including timely delivery of forms pursuant to ) as if it were a Lender of the relevant Loan and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section.  
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
Section 3.01
(e)
.  A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Company's prior written consent.  A Participant shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Company is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrowers, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
(f)
.  Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note(s), if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
(g)
.  The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
(h)
.  Subject to clause (vii) of subsection (b) above, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Company (an "") the option to provide all or any part of any Committed Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make pursuant to this Agreement; that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to fund any Committed Loan, and (ii) such granting shall not relieve the Granting Lender of any of its obligations under this Agreement, including, without limitation, its obligation to fund a Loan if, for any reason, its SPC fails to fund any such Loan.  Each party hereto hereby agre es that (i) neither the grant to any SPC nor the exercise by any SPC of such option shall increase the costs or expenses or otherwise increase or change the obligations of the Borrowers under this Agreement (including its obligations under ), (ii) no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement for which a Lender would be liable, , however, that the Granting Lender shall remain liable for such obligations, and (iii) the Granting Lender shall for all purposes, including the approval of any amendment, waiver or other modification of any provision of any Loan Document, remain the lender of record
Special Purpose Funding Vehicles
Granting Lender
SPC
provided
Section 3.04
provided
hereunder.  The making of a Committed Loan by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Committed Loan were made by such Granting Lender.  In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior debt of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, or liquidation proceeding under the laws of the United States or any State thereof, , however, that each Granting Lender hereby agrees to indemnify, save and hold harmless each other party hereto for any loss, cost, damage or expense arising out of its inability to institute such a proceeding against such SPC during such period of forbearance.  Without limiting the indemnification obligations of any indemnifying Lender pursuant to this subsection, in the event that the indemnifying Lender fails timely to compensate any Loan Party for such claim, any Loans held by the relevant SPC shall, if requested by the Borrower, be assigned promptly to the Granting Lender that administers the SPC and the granting of rights pursuant to this subsection to such SPC shall be void.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without prior consent of the Company and the Administrative Agent and with the payment of a processing fee in the amount of $3,500 (which processing fee may be waived by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), assign all or any portion of its right to receive payment with respect to any Committed Loan to the Granting Lender and (ii) disclose on a confi dential basis any non-public information relating to its funding of Committed Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety or guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC.
provided
(i)
.  Subject to clause (vii) of subsection (b) above, if at any time Bank of America assigns all of its Commitment and Loans pursuant to subsection (b) above, Bank of America may, (i) upon 30 days' notice to the Company and the Lenders, resign as L/C Issuer and/or (ii) upon 30 days' notice to the Company, resign as Swing Line Lender.  In the event of any such resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, the Company shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder; , , that no failure by the Company to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of Bank of America as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be.  If Bank of America resigns as L/C Issuer, it shall retain all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts pursuant to ).  If Bank of America resigns as Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights and obligations of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to .  Upon the appointment of a successor L/C Issuer and/or Swing Line Lender, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, and (b) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make
Resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender after Assignment
provided
however
Section 2.04(c)
Section 2.05(c)
other arrangements reasonably satisfactory to Bank of America to effectively assume the obligations of Bank of America with respect to such Letters of Credit.
10.07.
.  Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer agrees on behalf of itself and its Related Parties to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential and that the Administrative Agent, the relevant Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, shall be responsible to the Loan Parties and their Affiliates for any failure by such Person to maintain the confidentiality of the Information), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process (provided that, in the case of this clause (c) or the foregoing clause (b), the Administrative Agent or the Lender, as the case may be, shall disclose only the information required and, to the extent permitted by applicable law and regulation, shall notify the Company in writing of such disclosure and will use its best efforts to send such written notice in advance of such disclosure, so that the Company may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy), (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (g) with the consent of the Company or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than any Loan Party or any of its Affiliates (and other than a source acting on its or their behalf), without a duty of confidentiality to any such Loan Party or any of its Affiliates being violated.
Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information supplied by or on behalf of the Company or any Subsidiary pursuant to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or in anticipation or preparation herefor or therefor, or obtained by the Administrative Agent, and Lender or the L/C Issuer in the course of any review of the books and records of any Loan Party, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Company or any Subsidiary, without a duty of confidentiality to any Loan Party or any of its Affiliates being violated.
Information
Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
10.08.
.  If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of any Borrower or any other Loan Party against any and all of the obligations of such Borrower or such Loan Party now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or the L/C Issuer shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of such Borrower or such Loan Party may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender or the L/C Issuer different from the branch or office ho lding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness; , that in the event that any Defaulting Lender shall exercise any such right of setoff, (x) all amounts so set off shall be paid over immediately to the Administrative Agent for further application in accordance with the provisions of and, pending such payment, shall be segregated by such Defaulting Lender from its other funds and deemed held in trust for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and (y) the Defaulting Lender shall provide promptly to the Administrative Agent a statement describing in reasonable detail the Obligations owing to such Defaulting Lender as to which it exercised such right of setoff.     The rights of each Lender, the L/C Issuer and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender, the L/C Issuer or their respective Affiliates may have.  Each Lender and the L/ C Issuer agrees to notify the Company and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
Right of Setoff
provided
Section 2.19
provided
10.09.
.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the "").  If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Company.  In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throu ghout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
Interest Rate Limitation
Maximum Rate
10.10.
.  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract.  This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof.  Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto.  Delivery
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.01
of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy or other electronic means shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
10.11.
.  All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof.  Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and, to the extent made, shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding.
Survival of Representations and Warranties
10.12.
.  If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions.  The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.  Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this , if and to the extent that the enforceability of any provisions in this Agreement relating to Defaulting Lenders shall be limited by Debtor Relief Laws, as determined in good faith by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Sw ing Line Lender, as applicable, then such provisions shall be deemed to be in effect only to the extent not so limited.
Severability
Section 10.12
10.13.
.  If (i) any Lender requests compensation under , (ii) any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , (iii) any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, (iv) any Lender does not consent to a departure from or waiver of any provisions of the Loan Documents or to any amendment thereto, in each case that requires unanimous consent of all affected Lenders and that has been approved by the Required Lenders, or (v) any other circumstance exists hereunder that gives the Company the right to replace a Lender as a party hereto, then the Company may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.06
provided
(a)
the Company shall have paid (or caused a Designated Subsidiary to pay) to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in (unless the Administrative Agent waives such fee);
Section 10.06(b)
(b)
such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to 100% of the outstanding principal of its Loans and L/C Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and
all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Company or applicable Designated Subsidiary (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
(c)
in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
(d)
such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Company to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
10.14.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc.
(a)
.  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
(b)
.  EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT.  EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AN D MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW.  NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT ANY PARTY HERETO MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
(c)
.  EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION.  EACH OF THE
WAIVER OF VENUE
PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
(d)
.  EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN .  NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
10.15.
.  EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY).  EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
Waiver of Jury Trial
10.16.
.  In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby, each Borrower acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) the credit facilities provided for hereunder and any related arranging or other services in connection therewith (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) are an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Borrowers  and their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers, on the other hand, and the Borrowers are capable of evaluating and understanding and understand and accept the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or thereof); (ii) in connection with the process leading to such transaction, the Administrative Agent and each Lead Arra ngers is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary, for any of the Borrowers or any of their respective Affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other Person; (iii) neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lead Arranger has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of any Borrower with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto, including with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document (irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent or any Lead Arranger has advised or is currently advising any of the Borrowers or their respective Affiliates on other matters) and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lead Arranger has any obligation to any of the Borrowers or their respective Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loa n Documents; (iv) the
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrowers and their respective Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lead Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers have not provided and will not provide any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) and each Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate.  Each Borrower hereby waives and releases, to the fu llest extent permitted by law, any claims that it may have with respect to actions taken or omitted with respect to this Agreement through the Closing Date against the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.  
10.17.
.  Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrowers that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrowers, which information includes the name and address of each Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify such Borrower in accordance with the Act.  Each Borrower shall, promptly following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provide all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
10.18.
.  If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or any other Loan Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.  The obligation of each Borrower in respect of any such sum due from it to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Administrative Agent may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency.  If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent from any Borrower in the Agreement Currency, such Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Administrative Agent or the Person to whom such obligation was owing against such loss.  If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent in such currency, the Administrative Agent agrees to return the amount of any excess to such Borrower (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law).  
Judgment Currency
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
[THE REMAINDER OF THE PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]
the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,


