FILE:HAS/HAS-8K-20101214131738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors;
                 Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
   
On December 9, 2010, Hasbro, Inc. ("Hasbro" or the "Company") announced that Barbara Finigan had been promoted to Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary of the Company effective immediately.  Ms. Finigan, age 49, replaces Barry Nagler, who is retiring as Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary.  
A 19-year veteran of Hasbro, Ms. Finigan has represented the Company in a wide range of commercial transactions, litigation and regulatory matters.  During her tenure she helped establish Hasbro's employment, product safety and compliance practices as she assumed more responsibility in the Global Legal function.  Prior to her appointment as Chief Legal Officer, Ms. Finigan served most recently as Vice President of Litigation, Employment and Compliance.
A copy of the December 9, 2010 press release, announcing the promotion of Ms. Finigan and the retirement of Mr. Nagler is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.
Mr. Nagler will remain an employee of the Company through February 25, 2011 (his "Retirement Date").  During this transition period, Mr. Nagler will continue to receive his salary and benefits, including vesting under his equity grants.  Following his Retirement Date, Mr. Nagler's salary, insurance coverage and medical and dental benefits will be extended through December 31, 2011.  Outstanding contingent stock performance awards held by Mr. Nagler as of his Retirement Date will remain outstanding during the remainder of their performance periods.  A pro-rated portion of any amounts which would otherwise be earned under such awards at the end of the applicable performance periods will be paid to Mr. Nagler at the end of the performance periods, with the pro-ration reflecting the portion of the performance periods which had elapsed as of Mr. Nagler 46;s Retirement Date.  The Company is also accelerating the vesting of the next tranche of the stock option granted to Mr. Nagler on May 21, 2009.  This tranche for 24,602 shares was scheduled to vest on May 21, 2011, and will become vested as of Mr. Nagler's Retirement Date.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)
Exhibits
99  
Press Release dated December 9, 2010.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Barbara Finigan has been promoted to  Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary of (NYSE:HAS) effective immediately it was announced today by Brian Goldner, Hasbro's President and Chief Executive Officer.  Ms. Finigan will oversee all legal activities for the Company on a worldwide basis.  
PAWTUCKET, R.I., December 9, 2010 
Hasbro, Inc.
Ms. Finigan, 49, replaces Barry Nagler who is retiring as SVP, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary of Hasbro, Inc.  Prior to her promotion, Ms. Finigan served as Vice President of Litigation, Employment and Compliance in Hasbro's Legal Department.  
A 19-year veteran of Hasbro, Ms. Finigan has represented the company in a wide range of commercial transactions, litigation and regulatory matters.  During her tenure she helped establish Hasbro's employment, product safety and compliance practices as she assumed more responsibility in the Global Legal function.
Prior to joining Hasbro, Ms. Finigan was an associate in the Corporate Department of Brown, Rudnick, Freed & Gesmer in Boston.  She is a graduate of the College of the Holy Cross with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics and Political Science.  She earned her J.D. from Marquette University where she served as the Editor-in-Chief of the Marquette Law Review.  She is a member of the Rhode Island, Massachusetts and Wisconsin Bar Associations.
Hasbro, Inc.
(NYSE:HAS) is a branded play company providing children and families around the world with a wide-range of immersive entertainment offerings based on the Company's world class brand portfolio.  From toys and games, to television programming, motion pictures, video games and a comprehensive licensing program, Hasbro strives to delight its customers through the strategic leveraging of well-known and beloved brands such as TRANSFORMERS, LITTLEST PET SHOP, NERF, PLAYSKOOL, MY LITTLE PONY, G.I. JOE, MAGIC: THE GATHERING and MONOPOLY.  The Hub, Hasbro's multi-platform joint venture with Discovery Communications (NASDAQ: DISCA, DISCB, DISCK) launched on October 10, 2010. The online home of The Hub is . The Hub logo and name are trademarks of Hub Television Networks, LLC. All rights reserved.  
www.hubworld.com
Come see how we inspire play through our brands at .  2010 Hasbro, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
http://www.hasbro.com


