FILE:LLTC/LLTC-8K-20070419061235.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 18, 2007, Linear Technology Corporation ("Linear") issued a press release with respect to the pricing of its offer and sale of $1.7 billion aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due May 1, 2027. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
On April 18, 2007, Linear issued a press release announcing it has entered into an accelerated share repurchase transaction. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 18, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
MILPITAS, Calif.Linear Technology Corporation (NasdaqGS:LLTC) today announced that it has priced its offerings of $1 billion aggregate principal amount of its 3.00% Convertible Senior Notes due May 1, 2027 and $700 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.125% Convertible Senior Notes due May 1, 2027 to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933. The issuance of the notes is expected to close on April 24, 2007, subject to satisfaction of customary closing conditions.
Each series of notes will initially be convertible, subject to certain conditions, into cash up to the lesser of the principal amount of the notes or the conversion value. If the conversion value of the notes is greater than $1,000, then the excess conversion value will be convertible into cash, common stock or a combination of cash and common stock, at Linear's election. The initial effective conversion rate of the 3.00% notes is 20 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 3.00% notes (which is equivalent to an initial effective conversion price of approximately $50.00 per share), subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events. The initial effective conversion rate of the 3.125% notes is 19.8138 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 3.125% notes (which is equivalent to an initial effective conversion price of approximately $50.47 per share), subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events. This represents a premium of approximately 38.7% and 40%, respectively, relative to the closing bid price of Linear's common stock on April 18, 2007. Each series of notes will bear contingent interest under certain circumstances. Linear may redeem the 3.00% notes for cash at any time on or after May 1, 2014 and holders may require Linear to repurchase the 3.00% notes for cash on specified dates and upon a fundamental change. Linear may redeem the 3.125% notes for cash at any time on or after November 1, 2010 and holders may require Linear to repurchase the 3.125% notes for cash on specified dates and upon a fundamental change.
Linear intends to use the entire net proceeds of this offering to fund a portion of its agreement to repurchase approximately $3 billion of its common stock through an accelerated stock repurchase transaction with an affiliate of the initial purchaser.
The initial purchaser has advised Linear that, in connection with the counterparty to the accelerated stock repurchase establishing its initial hedge of the accelerated stock repurchase transaction, it expects such counterparty or its affiliate to enter into various derivative and/or common stock purchase transactions in secondary market transactions concurrently with or shortly after the pricing of the notes. This counterparty or its affiliate is likely to modify such hedge position by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to Linear common stock and/or by purchasing or selling Linear common stock in secondary market transactions prior to final settlement of the accelerated stock repurchase transaction. In addition, during the term of the accelerated stock repurchase transaction, which is expected to last approximately nine months, this counterparty or its affiliate will purchase shares of Linear common stock in connection with the accelerated stock repurchase transaction.
 
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of these securities and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale is unlawful.
The securities have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws. The notes may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements.
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, whether or not Linear will offer the notes or consummate the offering, the anticipated terms of the notes and the offering and the anticipated use of the proceeds of the offering.
Linear and the Linear logo are registered trademarks of Linear Technology Corporation. All other trademarks or registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
For further information contact Paul Coghlan at Linear Technology Corporation, 1630 McCarthy Blvd., Milpitas, California 95035-7417, (408) 432-1900.
 

Exhibit 99.2
MILPITAS, Calif.Linear Technology Corporation (NasdaqGS:LLTC) today announced that it has entered into an agreement to purchase $3 billion of its outstanding shares of common stock in a privately negotiated accelerated stock repurchase transaction with a third-party financial institution (the "repurchase counterparty"). The Company will finance the repurchases with existing cash and the proceeds of its recently announced convertible note offerings. The repurchase transaction will be conditioned on the closing of the Company's $1.7 billion convertible note offerings.
Robert H. Swanson, founder and Executive Chairman, said "Over the last twenty-five years we have built a strong profitable analog franchise. During this period we have grown entirely organically without any Company acquisitions and have accumulated roughly $2.0 billion in cash. We believe that our best investment continues to be ourselves, Linear Technology Corporation. Accordingly, we plan to purchase $3.0 billion of Linear stock in this transaction."
"This substantial share repurchase underscores our belief in Linear's future" said Lothar Maier, Linear's CEO. "Repurchasing stock at this time represents an opportunity to use our strong cash position, together with some leveraging of our strong cash flow, to enhance long-term shareholder value."
Under the accelerated stock repurchase transaction, the Company will purchase $3 billion of shares of Linear common stock from the repurchase counterparty, with the exact number of shares of Linear common stock with respect to the first $1.5 billion to be determined based on the daily volume weighted average price of Linear common stock over an approximately three month period expected to commence shortly after closing of the Company's $1.7 billion convertible note offerings and with the exact number for the remaining $1.5 billion to be determined based on the daily volume weighted average price of Linear common stock (subject to a per share floor price and cap price resulting in a purchase by the Company under that part of the accelerated stock repurchase program of no fewer than approximately 38.9 million shares of common stock and not more than approximately 42.5 million shares of common stock) over the subsequent approximately six month period. Pursuant to the terms of the accelerated stock repurchase transaction, the repurchase counterparty will deliver to Linear the first approximately 47.2 million shares of Linear common stock purchased on April 24, 2007. In addition, on each of May 30, 2007 and June 30, 2007, pursuant to the terms of the accelerated share repurchase transaction, the repurchase counterparty will deliver to Linear approximately 12.5 million shares of Linear common stock. On each of these dates, the repurchased shares will be retired, and Linear's outstanding shares used to calculate earnings per share will be immediately reduced by the number of shares repurchased. At the conclusion of the approximately three month period expected to commence shortly after closing of the Company's $1.7 billion convertible note offerings, as a purchase price adjustment of the prepayment with respect to the first portion of the accelerated stock repurchase transaction, Linear may deliver to the repurchase counterparty, or the repurchase counterparty may deliver to
Linear, shares of Linear common stock. The number of shares of Linear common stock to be delivered in connection with such purchase price adjustment, and the party to whom such shares are delivered, will be determined based upon the volume weighted average price of Linear common stock over such three month period. Thereafter, at the conclusion of the subsequent approximately six month period, the repurchase counterparty will deliver to Linear the excess, if any, of the final number of shares to be repurchased under the second portion of the accelerated stock repurchase transaction over the aggregate number of shares of common stock previously delivered with respect to that portion of the accelerated stock repurchase transaction.
The repurchase counterparty has advised Linear that, in connection with establishing its initial hedge of the accelerated stock repurchase transaction, it or its affiliate expects to enter into various derivative and/or common stock purchase transactions in secondary market transactions concurrently with or shortly after entering into the accelerated stock repurchase transaction. The repurchase counterparty or its affiliate is likely to modify such hedge position by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to Linear common stock and/or by purchasing or selling Linear common stock in secondary market transactions prior to final settlement of the accelerated stock repurchase transaction. In addition, during the term of the accelerated stock repurchase transaction, which is expected to last approximately nine months, the repurchase counterparty or its affiliate will purchase shares of Linear common stock in connection with the accelerated stock repurchase transaction.
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, whether or not Linear will consummate the accelerated stock repurchase transaction and various events that could result in early termination of the program.
Linear and the Linear logo are registered trademarks of Linear Technology Corporation. All other trademarks or registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
For further information contact Paul Coghlan at Linear Technology Corporation, 1630 McCarthy Blvd., Milpitas, California 95035-7417, (408) 432-1900.
 


