FILE:LLTC/LLTC-8K-20090817125000.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01                      Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Item 5.02 below is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 5.02    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On August 11, 2009, Linear Technology Corporation (the Company) entered into an Employment Agreement (the Agreement) with its Chief Executive Officer, Lothar Maier.  The Agreement, along with the Confidential Information and Invention Assignment Agreement previously entered into between the Company and Mr. Maier and the indemnification agreement previously entered into between the Company and Mr. Maier, supersede and replace any and all prior agreements and understandings concerning Mr. Maiers employment relationship with the Company.  The terms of the Agreement are as follows:
.  While employed by the Company, Mr. Maier will receive a base salary at an annual rate of $405,000 (the Base Salary).  The Base Salary will be reviewed annually by the Compensation Committee of the Companys Board of Directors (the Committee) for possible adjustment.
Salary
 
.  Mr. Maier will be eligible to earn a target bonus under the Companys 1996 Senior Executive Bonus Plan as specified annually by the Committee and will also be eligible to participate in the Companys Key Employee Incentive Bonus Plan.
Bonus
.  During his employment, Mr. Maier is eligible to participate in the employee benefits plans maintained by the Company that are applicable to other senior management of the Company to the full extent provided for by such plans.
Employee Benefits
.  If, at any time prior to a Change of Control (as defined in the Agreement), Mr. Maiers employment with the Company terminates due to a voluntary termination for Good Reason (as defined in the Agreement) or an involuntary termination by the Company other than for Cause (as defined in the Agreement), then, subject to Mr. Maier signing and not revoking a mutual release of claims with the Company, and subject to Mr. Maiers compliance with the provisions of the Agreement (including continued compliance with the terms of the Confidential Information and Invention Assignment Agreement and a twelve (12) month non-solicit provision): (i) all of Mr. Maiers Company stock options, restricted stock and other equity awards will immediately vest as to 75% of the then unvested amount of such awards, (ii) Mr. Maier will receive continued payment of severance pay for twelve (12) months at a rate equal to his Base Salary as in effect on the date of termination, plus the average bonus paid to Mr. Maier for the two twelve (12) month bonus periods prior to the date of such termination (collectively, the Severance Payment), and (iii) if Mr. Maier elects continuation coverage pursuant to COBRA for himself and his covered dependents, the Company will reimburse Mr. Maier for the COBRA premiums for such coverage for the lesser of (A) eighteen (18) months, or (B) the date upon which Mr. Maier and his covered dependents are covered by similar plans of Mr. Maiers new employer.
Severance Prior to a Change of Control
.  If Mr. Maiers employment terminates and such termination is due to a voluntary termination (other than for Good Reason), for Cause, or due to Mr. Maiers Disability (as defined in the Agreement), then (i) all payments of compensation to Mr. Maier will terminate (except as to amounts already earned), and (ii) all vesting of Mr. Maiers Company stock options, restricted stock and other equity awards will terminate immediately.
Voluntary Termination Other than for Good Reason; Involuntary Termination for Cause; Termination due to Disability
.  If Mr. Maiers employment terminates due to his death, then (i) all payments of compensation to Mr. Maier will terminate (except as to amounts already earned), and (ii) all vesting of Mr. Maiers Company stock options, restricted stock and other equity awards will immediately accelerate as to 50% of the then unvested portion of such awards, and all subsequent vesting of Mr. Maiers stock options, restricted stock and other equity awards will terminate immediately.
Termination due to Death
.  In the event of a Change of Control, Mr. Maier will receive all of the benefits described above in the paragraph titled , provided that the Severance Payment will be payable in a lump-sum within five (5) days following the Change of Control and the COBRA coverage will be extended to Mr. Maier upon any subsequent termination of his employment, regardless if such termination is for Cause or for Good Reason.  If Mr. Maiers tenure as the Companys Chief Executive Officer terminates following a Change of Control, Mr. Maier will not be entitled to any additional compensation (except as to amounts already earned and the benefits due as described above in the paragraph titled ).
Change of Control Benefits
Severance Prior to a Change of Control
Severance Prior to a Change of Control
The foregoing summary of the Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  August 17, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
This Agreement is made by and between Linear Technology Corporation (the Company) and Lothar Maier (Executive).
 
1.
 
.
Duties and Scope of Employment
 
 
(a)
 
.  Executives coverage under this Agreement shall commence upon the date this Agreement has been signed by both parties hereto (the Agreement Commencement Date).  Following the Agreement Commencement Date, Executive shall continue to serve as the Companys Chief Executive Officer, reporting to the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board).  The period of Executives employment hereunder is referred to herein as the Employment Term.  During the Employment Term, Executive shall render such business and professional services in the performance of his duties, consistent with Executives position within the Company, as shall reasonably be assigned to him by the Board.
Position; Agreement Commencement Date; Duties
 
 
(b)
 
.  During the Employment Term, Executive shall devote his full business efforts and time to the Company.  Executive agrees, during the Employment Term, not to actively engage in any other employment, occupation or consulting activity for any direct or indirect remuneration without the prior approval of the Board; provided, however, that Executive may serve in any capacity with any civic, educational or charitable organization, or as a member of corporate Boards of Directors or committees thereof, without the approval of the Board, unless such service involves a conflict of interest with the Companys business.
Obligations
 
 
2.
 
.  Executive and the Company understand and acknowledge that Executives employment with the Company constitutes at-will employment.  Subject to the Companys obligation to provide severance benefits as specified herein, Executive and the Company acknowledge that this employment relationship may be terminated at any time, upon written notice to the other party, with or without good cause or for any or no cause, at the option either of the Company or Executive.
At-Will Employment
 
 
3.
 
.
Compensation
 
 
(a)
 
.  While employed by the Company, the Company shall pay the Executive as compensation for his services a base salary at the annualized rate of $405,000 (the Base Salary).  Such salary shall be paid periodically in accordance with normal Company payroll practices and subject to the usual, required withholding.  Executives Base Salary shall be reviewed annually by the Compensation Committee of the Board for possible adjustments in light of Executives performance and competitive data.
Base Salary
 
 
 
 
 
(b)
 
.  Executive shall be eligible to earn a target bonus under the Companys 1996 Senior Executive Bonus Plan as specified annually by the Compensation Committee of the Board and will also be eligible to participate in the Key Employee Incentive Bonus Plan (the target amounts under these plans together are referred to herein as the Target Bonus).
Bonuses
 
 
(c)
 
.  During the Employment Term, Executive shall be eligible to participate in the employee benefit plans maintained by the Company that are applicable to other senior management to the full extent provided for under those plans.
Employee Benefits
 
 
4.
 
.
Severance Benefits
 
 
(a)
 
.  If, at any time prior to a Change of Control (as defined herein), Executives employment with the Company terminates due to
Severance Prior to a Change of Control
(i)a voluntary termination for Good Reason (as defined herein), or (ii) an involuntary termination by the Company other than for Cause (as defined herein), then, subject to Executive executing and not revoking a standard form of mutual release of claims with the Company, and provided that such release of claims becomes effective no later than sixty (60) days following the termination date (such deadline, the Release Deadline), then subject to Section 4(g) and subject to Executive not breaching the terms of Section 13 hereof, (i) all of Executives Company stock options, restricted stock and other equity awards shall immediately accelerate vesting as to 75% of the then unvested amount of such awards; (ii) Executive shall receive continued payments of severance pay for twelve (12) months following the date of such termination at a rate equal to (A) Executives annual Base Salary rate as in effect on the date of such termination, plus (B) the average bonus paid to Executive for the two (2) twelve-month bonus periods prior to the date of such termination, less applicable withholding, in accordance with the Companys standard payroll practices (the Severance Payment); and (iii) if Executive elects continuation coverage pursuant to the Consolidated Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended (COBRA) for Executive and Executives dependents, within the time period prescribed pursuant to COBRA, the Company shall reimburse Executive for the COBRA premiums for such coverage for Executive and his covered dependents for the lesser of (A) eighteen (18) months from the date of Executives termination of employment, or (B) the date upon which Executive and his covered dependents are covered by similar plans of Executives new employer.  COBRA reimbursements shall be made by the Company to Executive consistent with the Companys normal expense reimbursement policy.
 
 
(b)
 
.
Timing of Payments
 
 
(i)
 
If the release of claims does not become effective by the Release Deadline, Executive shall forfeit any rights to severance or benefits under this Agreement.  In no event shall severance payments or benefits be paid or provided until the release of claims actually becomes effective and irrevocable.  Any severance payments or benefits under this Agreement that would be considered Deferred Compensation Separation Benefits (as defined in Section 4(g)(i)) shall be paid on, or, in the case of installments, shall not commence until, the sixtieth (60) day following Executives separation from service, or, if later, such time as required by Section 4(g).  
th
Any installment payments that would have been made to Executive during the sixty (60) day period immediately following Executives separation from service but for the preceding sentence shall be paid to Executive on the sixtieth (60
th
) day following Executives separation from service and the remaining payments shall be made as provided in this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
(ii)
 
Unless otherwise required by Section 4(g), the Company shall pay any severance payments in continuing payments following Executives termination date; provided, however, that no severance or other benefits shall be paid or provided until the release of claims discussed in Section 4(a) becomes effective, and any severance amounts or benefits otherwise payable between Executives termination date and the date such release becomes effective shall be paid on the effective date of such release.  If Executive should die before all of the severance amounts have been paid, such unpaid amounts shall be paid in a lump-sum payment promptly following such event to Executives designated beneficiary, if living, or otherwise to the personal representative of Executives estate.
 
 
(c)
 
.  In the event that Executive terminates his employment voluntarily other than for Good Reason or is involuntarily terminated by the Company for Cause, then all vesting of Executives stock options, restricted stock and other equity awards shall terminate immediately and all payments of compensation by the Company to Executive  hereunder shall immediately terminate (except as to amounts already earned).
Voluntary Termination Other than for Good Reason; Involuntary Termination for Cause
 
 
(d)
 
.  Upon Executives death during the Employment Term, then
Death
 
 
(i) employment hereunder shall automatically terminate; (ii) all ofExecutives Company stock options, restricted stock and other equity awards shall immediately accelerate vesting as to 50% of the then unvested portion of such awards, and all subsequent vesting of Executives stock options, restricted stock and other equity awards shall terminate immediately; and (iii) all payments of compensation by the Company to Executive hereunder shall immediately terminate (except as to amounts already earned).
 
 
 
(e)
 
.  Upon Executives Disability during the Employment Term, then employment hereunder shall automatically terminate and all payments of compensation by the Company to Executive hereunder shall immediately terminate (except as to amounts already earned), and all vesting of Executives stock options, restricted stock and other equity awards shall terminate immediately.
Disability
 
 
(f)
 
.  The Executive shall not be required to mitigate the value of any severance benefits contemplated by this Agreement, nor shall any such benefits be reduced by any earnings or benefits that the Executive may receive from any other source; provided, however, that if Executive receives severance benefits hereunder, he expressly waives the right to receive severance benefits under any other severance plan or policy of the Company.
Mitigation
 
 
(g)
 
Section 409A
.
 
(i)
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, no severance payable to Executive, if any, pursuant to this Agreement, when considered together with any other severance payments or separation benefits that are considered deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code) and the final regulations and any guidance promulgated thereunder (Section 409A) (together, the Deferred Compensation Separation Benefits) shall be payable until Executive has a separation from service within the meaning of Section 409A.
 
 
 
 
 
(ii)
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if Executive is a specified employee within the meaning of Section 409A at the time of Executives termination (other than due to death), then the Deferred Compensation Separation Benefits that are payable within the first six (6) months following Executives separation from service shall become payable on the first payroll date that occurs on or after the date six (6) months and one (1) day following the date of Executives separation from service.  All subsequent Deferred Compensation Separation Benefits, if any, shall be payable in accordance with the payment schedule applicable to each payment or benefit.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if Executive dies following Executives separation from service but prior to the six (6) month anniversary of the separation, then any payments delayed in accordance with this paragraph shall be payable in a lump sum as soon as administratively practicable after the date of Executives death and all other Deferred Compensation Separation Benefits shall be payable in accordance with the payment schedule applicable to each payment or benefit.  Each payment and benefit payable under this Agreement is intended to constitute separate payments for purposes of Section 1.409A-2(b)(2) of the Treasury Regulations.
 
 
(iii)
 
Any amount paid under this Agreement that satisfies the requirements of the short-term deferral rule set forth in Section 1.409A-1(b)(4) of the Treasury Regulations shall not constitute Deferred Compensation Separation Benefits for purposes of clause (i) above.
 
 
(iv)
 
Any amount paid under this Agreement that qualifies as a payment made as a result of an involuntary separation from service pursuant to Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) of the Treasury Regulations that do not exceed the Section 409A Limit (as defined below) shall not constitute Deferred Compensation Separation Benefits for purposes of clause (i) above.
 
(v)
 
The foregoing provisions are intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A so that none of the severance payments and benefits to be provided hereunder shall be subject to the additional tax imposed under Section 409A, and any ambiguities herein shall be interpreted to so comply.  The Company and Executive agree to work together in good faith to consider amendments to this Agreement and to take such reasonable actions which are necessary, appropriate or desirable to avoid imposition of any additional tax or income recognition prior to actual payment to Executive under Section 409A.
5.
 
.  In the event of a Change of Control (as defined herein), Executive shall receive the benefits specified in Section 4(a) above (including 75% vesting acceleration); provided that the Severance Payment shall be payable in a lump-sum within five (5) days following the Change of Control and the COBRA coverage shall beextended to Executive upon any subsequent termination of his employment, whether or not for Cause or Good Reason.  In the event Executives tenure as the Companys Chief Executive Officer terminates following a Change of Control, for any or no reason, Executive shall not be entitled to any additional compensation (except as to amounts already earned and payments and benefits due pursuant to Section 4(a)).
Change of Control Benefits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.
 
.  In the event that the benefits provided for in this Agreement or otherwise payable to Executive (i) constitute parachute payments within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code and (ii) but for this Section 6, would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, then Executives benefits under Section 4 and Section 5 respectively shall be either:
Golden Parachute Excise Taxes
 
(a)
 
delivered in full, or
 
 
whichever of the foregoing amounts, taking into account the applicable federal, state and local income taxes and the excise tax imposed by Section 4999, results in the receipt by Executive on an after-tax basis, of the greatest amount of benefits, notwithstanding that all or some portion of such benefits may be taxable under Section 4999 of the Code.  If a reduction in severance and other benefits constituting parachute payments is necessary so that benefits are delivered to a lesser extent, reduction shall occur in the following order:: reduction of cash payments; cancellation of awards granted contingent on a change in ownership or control (within the meaning of Code Section 280G); cancellation of accelerated vesting of equity awards; reduction of employee benefits.  In the event that acceleration of vesting of equity award compensation is to be reduced, such acceleration of vesting shall be cancelled in the reverse order of the date of grant of Executives equity awards.
 
Unless the Company and Executive otherwise agree in writing, any determination required under this Section 6 shall be made in writing by the Companys independent auditors who are primarily used by the Company immediately prior to the Change of Control (the Accountants).  For purposes of making the calculations required by this Section 6, the Accountants may make reasonable assumptions and approximations concerning applicable taxes and may rely on reasonable, good faith interpretations concerning the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code.  The Company and Executive shall furnish to the Accountants such information and documents as the Accountants may reasonably request in order to make a determination under this Section.  The Company shall bear all costs the Accountants may reasonably incur in connection with any calculations contemplated by this Section 6.
 
 
7.
 
.
Definitions
 
 
(a)
 
.  For purposes of this Agreement, Cause shall mean (i) an act of personal dishonesty taken by Executive in connection with his responsibilities as an employee and intended to result in substantial personal enrichment of Executive;
Cause
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) Executive being convicted of, or plea of nolo contendere to, a felony; (iii) a willful act by Executive which constitutes gross misconduct and which is injurious to the Company; or (iv) following delivery to Executive of a written demand for performance from the Company which describes the basis for the Companys reasonable belief that Executive has not substantially performed his duties, continued violations by Executive of Executives obligations to the Company which are demonstrably willful and deliberate on Executives part.
 
 
(b)
 
.  For purposes of this Agreement, Change of Control shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change of Control
 
 
(i)
 
.  A change in the ownership of the Company, which is deemed to occur on the date that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group (Person), acquires ownership of the stock of the Company that, together with the stock held by such Person, constitutes more than 50% of the total voting power of the stock of the Company; or
Change in Ownership of the Company
 
(ii)
 
.  A change in the effective control of the Company, which is deemed to occur on the date that a majority of members of the Board is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election was not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of the appointment or election.  For purposes of this clause (ii), if any Person is considered to be in effective control of the Company, the acquisition of additional control of the Company by the same Person will not be considered a Change of Control; or
Change in Effective Control of
the Company
 
(iii)
 
.  A change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the Companys assets, which is deemed to occur on the date that any Person acquires (either is one transaction or in multiple transactions over the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from the Company that have a total gross fair market value equal to or more than 50% of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of the Company immediately prior to such acquisition or acquisitions.  For purposes of this subsection (iii), gross fair market value means the value of the assets of the Company, or the value of the assets being disposed of, determined without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.
Change in Ownership of a Substantial Portion of the Company
s Assets
For purposes of the above sections, persons will be considered to be acting as a group if they are owners of a corporation that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock, or similar business transaction with the Company.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, a transaction will not be deemed a Change of Control unless the transaction qualifies as a change in control event within the meaning of Section 409A.
 
(c)
 
.  For purposes of this Agreement, Disability means that Executive is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months.
Disability
 
 
 
 
 
(d)
 
.  For purposes of this Agreement, Good Reason means Executives termination of employment within ninety (90) days following the expiration of any cure period (as discussed below) following the occurrence of one or more of the following, without Executives express consent, (i) the  assignment  to  Executive of any duties, authority or responsibilities, or the reduction of Executives duties, authority or responsibilities, either of which results in a material reduction of Executives duties, authority orresponsibilities, relative to Executives duties, authority or responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to such reduction; (ii) a material reduction by the Company in the base compensation of Executive as in effect immediately prior to such reduction (other than a reduction that generally applies to Company employees); (iii) a material change in the geographic location at which Executive must perform services (in other words, the relocation of Executive to a facility or a location more than thirty-five (35) miles from Executives then present location); or (iv) any other action or inaction that constitutes a material breach of the terms of the Agreement.
Good Reason
 
 
Executive shall not resign for Good Reason without first providing the Company with written notice within ninety (90) days of the event that Executive believe constitutes Good Reason specifically identifying the acts or omissions constituting the grounds for Good Reason and a reasonable cure period of not less than ninety (90) days.
 
(e)
 
.  Section 409A Limit shall mean the lesser of two (2) times: (i) Executives annualized compensation based upon the annual rate of pay paid to Executive during Executives taxable year preceding Executives taxable year of Executives termination of employment as determined under, and with such adjustments as are set forth in, Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii)(A)(1) and any Internal Revenue Service guidance issued with respect thereto; or (ii) the maximum amount that may be taken into account under a qualified plan pursuant to Section 401(a)(17) of the Code for the year in which Executives employment is terminated.
Section 409A Limit
 
 
8.
 
.  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of (a) the heirs, beneficiaries, executors and legal representatives of Executive upon Executives death and (b) any successor of the Company.  Any such successor of the Company shall be deemed substituted for the Company under the terms of this Agreement for all purposes.  As used herein, successor shall include any person, firm, corporation or other business entity which at any time, whether by purchase, merger or otherwise, directly or indirectly acquires all or substantially all of the assets or business of the Company.  None of the rights of Executive to receive any form of compensation payable pursuant to this Agreement shall be assignable or transferable except through a testamentary disposition or by the laws of descent and distribution upon the death of Executive.  Any attempted assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than as aforesaid) of any interest in the rights of Executive to receive any form of compensation hereunder shall be null and void.
Assignment
 
 
9.
 
.  All notices, requests, demands and other communications called for hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed  given if (i) delivered  personally or by facsimile; (ii) one (1) day after being sent by Federal Express or a similar commercial overnight service; or (iii) three (3) days after being mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, prepaid and addressed to the parties or their successors in interest at the following addresses, or at such other addresses as the parties may designate by written notice in the manner aforesaid:
Notices
 
 
 
 
If to the Company:               Linear Technology Corporation
1630 McCarthy Blvd.
Milpitas, CA  95035
Attn: General Counsel
If to Executive:                      Lothar Maier
at the last residential address known by the Company.
 
10.
 
.  In the event that any provision hereof becomes or is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, unenforceable or void, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect without said provision.
Severability
 
 
11.
 
.  This Agreement, the Confidential Information and Invention Assignment Agreement previously entered into by and between the Company and Executive and the indemnification agreement previously entered into by and between the Company and Executive represent the entire agreement and understanding between the Company and Executive concerning Executives employment relationship with the Company, and supersede and replace any and all prior agreements and understandings concerning Executives employment relationship with the Company.
Entire Agreement
 
 
12.
 
Arbitration
.
 
 
(a)
 
The Company and Executive each agree that any and all disputes arising out of the terms of this Agreement, Executives employment by the Company, Executives service as an officer or director of the Company, or Executives compensation and benefits, their interpretation and any of the matters herein released, shall be subject to binding arbitration under the arbitration rules set forth in California Code of Civil Procedure Sections 1280 through 1294.2, including Section 1281.8 (the Act), and pursuant to California law.  Disputes that the Company and Executive agree to arbitrate, and thereby agree to waive any right to a trial by jury, include any statutory claims under local, state, or federal law, including, but not limited to, claims under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, the California Family Rights Act, the California Labor Code, claims of harassment, discrimination, and wrongful termination, and any statutory or common law claims.  The Company and Executive further understand that this agreement to arbitrate also applies to any disputes that the Company may have with Executive.
 
 
 
 
(b)
 
.  The Company and Executive agree that any arbitration shall be administered by Judicial Arbitration & Mediation Services, Inc. (JAMS), pursuant to its Employment Arbitration Rules & Procedures (the JAMS Rules).  The Arbitrator shall have the power to decide any motions brought by any party to the arbitration, including motions for summary judgment and/or adjudication, motions to dismiss and demurrers, and motions for class certification, prior to any arbitration hearing.  The Arbitrator shall have the power to award any remedies available under applicable law, and the Arbitrator shall award attorneys fees and costs to the prevailing party, except as prohibited by law.  The Company shall pay for any administrative or hearing fees charged by the Arbitrator or JAMS except that Executive shall pay any filing fees associated with any arbitration that Executive initiates, but only so much of the filing fees as Executive would have instead paid had he filed a complaint in a court of law.  The Arbitrator shall administer and conduct any arbitration in accordance with California law, including the California Code of Civil Procedure, and the Arbitrator shall apply substantive and procedural California law to any dispute or claim, without reference to rules of conflict of law.  To the extent that the JAMS Rules conflict with California law, California law shall take precedence.  The decision of the Arbitrator shall be in writing.  Any arbitration under this Agreement shall be conducted in Santa Clara County, California.
Procedure
 
(c)
 
.  Except as provided by the Act and this Agreement, arbitration shall be the sole, exclusive, and final remedy for any dispute between Executive and the Company.  Accordingly, except as provided for by the Act and this Agreement, neither Executive nor the Company shall be permitted to pursue court action regarding claims that are subject to arbitration.
Remedy
 
(d)
 
.  Executive understand that this Agreement does not prohibit him from pursuing any administrative claim with a local, state, or federal administrative body or government agency that is authorized to enforce or administer laws related to employment, including, but not limited to, the Department of Fair Employment and Housing, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the National Labor Relations Board, or the Workers Compensation Board.  This Agreement does, however, preclude Executive from pursuing court action regarding any such claim, except aspermitted by law.
Administrative Relief
 
 
(e)
 
.  Each of the Company and Executive acknowledges and agrees that such party is executing this Agreement voluntarily and without any duress or undue influence by anyone.  Executive further acknowledges and agrees that he or she has carefully read this Agreement and has asked any questions needed for him to understand the terms, consequences, and binding effect of this Agreement and fully understand it, including that Executive is waiving his or her right to a jury trial.  Finally, Executive agrees that he or she has been provided an opportunity to seek the advice of an attorney of his or her choice before signing this Agreement.
Voluntary Nature of Agreement
 
 
13.
 
.  Executives receipt of any payments or benefits under this Agreement shall be subject to Executive continuing to comply with the terms of the Confidential Information and Invention Assignment Agreement executed by Executive in favor of the Company and the provisions of the Agreement.  In addition, as an express condition to Executives right to receive any payments or benefits under this Agreement, Executive agrees that he will not, at any time during twelve (12) month period following his termination date, directly or indirectly solicit any individuals to leave the Companys employ for any reason or interfere in any other manner with the employment relationships at the time existing between the Company and its current or prospective employees.
Covenant Not to Solicit
 
 
14.
 
.  This Agreement may only be amended, canceled or discharged in writing signed by Executive and theChairman of the Board.
No Oral Modification, Cancellation or Discharge
 
 
 
 
 
 
15.
 
.  The Company shall be entitled to withhold, or cause to be withheld, from payment any amount of withholding taxes required by law with respect to payments made to Executive in connection with his employment hereunder.
Withholding
 
 
16.
 
.  This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California.
Governing Law
 
 
17.
 
.  This Agreement is effective upon the date it has been executed by both parties.
Effective Date
 
 
18.
 
.  Executive acknowledges that he has had the opportunity to discuss this matter with and obtain advice from his private attorney, has had sufficient time to, and has carefully read and fully understands all the provisions of this Agreement, and is knowingly and voluntarily entering into this Agreement.
Acknowledgment
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement:
LINEAR TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
/s/ Robert H. Swanson, Jr.________________
Robert H. Swanson, Jr.
Date:  August 11, 2009
EXECUTIVE
________________________
/s/ Lothar Maier
Lothar Maier
Date:  August 11, 2009
 
 
 


