FILE:LLTC/LLTC-8K-20100114181746.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d)              On January 12, 2010, Linear Technology Corporation (the Company) appointed Mr. Arthur Agnos and Mr. John Gordon to the Board of Directors of the Company.  Mr. Agnos will serve on both the Nominating and Compensation Committees of the Board of Directors and Mr. Gordon will serve on the Audit and Nominating Committees.
Messrs. Agnos and Gordon will receive compensation for service on the Board of Directors in accordance with the Companys standard compensatory arrangement for non-employee directors.  The Company currently pays each non-employee director an annual retainer of $45,000 and a fee of $1,500 for each meeting attended.  The Board of Directors also awarded each of Messrs. Agnos and Gordon a restricted stock grant to purchase 3,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $0.001 per share. These restricted stock grants vest in full one year from the date of grant.  Messrs. Agnos and Gordon will also enter into a director indemnification agreement with the Company in the form previously filed with the SEC.
The Board of Directors has established a policy that directors hold at least 50% of the shares granted as restricted stock for five years, unless the director ceases to be a director prior to that time.
On January 13, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Messrs. Agnos and Gordon to the Board of Directors.  A copy is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)          Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  January 14, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
LINEAR TECHNOLOGY ADDS TWO NEW OUTSIDE DIRECTORS TO ITS BOARD
Milpitas, California, January 13, 2010, Linear Technology Corporation (NASDAQ-LLTC), a leading, independent manufacturer of high performance linear integrated circuits, announced that Arthur Agnos, former mayor of San Francisco and John Gordon, Senior Investment Officer of State Farm Insurance Companies have been named to the Company's Board of Directors.
According to Robert H. Swanson, Jr., Executive Chairman of the Board of Linear Technology, We are honored to be adding both Art Agnos and John Gordon to our Board of Directors.  They bring to our Board a wealth of experience in both the public and private sectors and complement the talents we presently have on our Board.  Art Agnos will serve on both the Nominating and Compensation Committees of the Board of Directors and John Gordon will serve on the Audit and Nominating Committees.
Their addition to the Company's Board of Directors brings the total number of directors to seven, five of whom are independent.
 
Linear Technology Corporation, a manufacturer of high performance linear integrated circuits, was founded in 1981, became a public company in 1986 and joined the S&P 500 index of major public companies in 2000.  Linear Technology products include high performance amplifiers, comparators, voltage references, monolithic filters, linear regulators, DC-DC converters, battery chargers, data converters, communications interface circuits, RF signal conditioning circuits, uModule products, and many other analog functions.  Applications for Linear Technologys high performance circuits include telecommunications, cellular telephones, networking products such as optical switches, notebook and desktop computers, computer peripherals, video/multimedia, industrial instrumentation, security monitoring devices, high-end consumer products such as digital cameras and MP3 players, complex medical devices, automotive electronics, factory automation, process control, and military and space systems. For more information, visit www.linear.com.
 
For further information contact Paul Coghlan at Linear Technology Corporation, 1630 McCarthy Blvd., Milpitas, California   95035-7417, (408) 432-1900.


