ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BUSINESS STRATEGY We are North Americas leading provider of corporate identity uniforms through rental and sales programs, as well as related business services, including entrance mats, restroom products, first aid and safety products and services, document management services and cleanroom services. Our services are designed to enhance our customers images and to provide additional safety and protection in the workplace. Our business strategy is to increase our market share of the uniform rental and sales business in North America through the sale of new uniform programs and to provide our customers with all of the products and services we offer. We will also continue to identify additional product and service opportunities to provide to our current and future customers. Our long term goal is to provide a product or service to every business in North America. To pursue this strategy, we focus on the development of a highly talented and diverse team of employees (who we call partners) a team that is properly trained and motivated to service our customers. We support our partners service efforts by providing superior products with distinct competitive advantages and we embrace technological advances. Continuous cost containment and product and process innovation are considered hallmarks of our organization. A more formalized approach in these areas was recently initiated when we commenced a Six Sigma effort within Cintas. Six Sigma is an analytical process that assists companies in improving quality and customer satisfaction while reducing cycle time and operating costs. We are pleased with our progress in this endeavor and are optimistic about the improved efficiencies that this process will yield to Cintas. We continue to leverage our size and core competencies to become a more valued business service provider to our current and future customers. We will also continue to supplement our internal growth with strategic acquisitions and the cultivation of new businesses. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Fiscal 2004 marked the 35th consecutive year of uninterrupted growth in sales and profits for Cintas. In addition to achieving this milestone, Cintas experienced healthy improvements in profitability, cash flow and balance sheet strength. This was accomplished while finalizing the integration of the largest uniform rental acquisition in Cintas history, Omni Services, Inc. (Omni). Cintas classifies its businesses into two operating segments: Rentals and Other Services. The Rentals operating segment designs and manufactures corporate identity uniforms which it rents, along with other items, to its customers. The Other Services operating segment involves the design, manufacture and direct sale of uniforms to customers as well as the sale of ancillary products and services. These ancillary products and services include restroom supplies, first aid and safety products and services, document management services and cleanroom supplies. All of these services are provided throughout the United States and Canada to businesses of all types from small service and manufacturing companies to major corporations that employ thousands of people. 8 The following table sets forth certain consolidated statements of income data as a percentage of revenue by reporting segment and in total for the periods indicated: 2004 2003 2002 Revenue: Rentals 78.2 % 78.2 % 77.2 % Other services 21.8 % 21.8 % 22.8 % Total revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales: Rentals 55.5 % 55.8 % 54.4 % Other services 66.1 % 67.3 % 69.6 % Total cost of sales 57.8 % 58.3 % 57.8 % Gross margin: Rentals 44.5 % 44.2 % 45.6 % Other services 33.9 % 32.7 % 30.4 % Total gross margin 42.2 % 41.7 % 42.2 % Selling and administrative expenses 25.9 % 25.9 % 25.6 % Interest income 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.3 % Interest expense 0.9 % 1.2 % 0.5 % Write off of loan receivable 0.1 % Income before income taxes 15.4 % 14.7 % 16.4 % As evidenced above, our revenue growth has been consistent between our reporting segments, with Rentals and Other Services each accounting for a consistent percentage of revenue the past two fiscal years. We have increased our gross margins in both segments in fiscal 2004, while maintaining selling and administrative costs as a percent of revenues. This overall income improvement occurred despite the soft economy that existed for much of the year and the continued rise in fuel, wage and benefit costs. FISCAL 2004 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2003 Fiscal 2004 total revenue was $2.8 billion, an increase of 4.7% over fiscal 2003. This growth was achieved despite the difficult economic environment that existed for much of the year. Internal growth for fiscal 2004, when adjusted for the additional workday in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003, was 3.0%. Weakness in employment numbers through the first half of our fiscal year directly affected our business, mainly through reduced uniform wearers and usage of related products, and caused our internal growth rate to be lower than our stated objective. As employment numbers strengthened over the second half of the year, our internal growth rates improved. Internal growth by quarter is shown in the table below. Internal growth percentages have been adjusted for the appropriate number of work days, by quarter and for the year, where applicable. Internal Growth First Quarter Ending August 31, 2003 1.1 % Second Quarter Ending November 30, 2003 2.3 % Third Quarter Ending February 29, 2004 3.7 % Fourth Quarter Ending May 31, 2004 5.0 % For the Year Ending May 31, 2004 3.0 % 9 Historically, increases in our internal growth rate have lagged employment growth levels as customers add individuals to existing rental or sales programs or enter into new rental or sales programs. Our organic growth continues to be generated mainly through the continued sale of new uniform rental programs and the increased penetration of ancillary products to our existing customer base. The remaining growth in total revenue was generated predominantly through acquisitions of first aid and safety service businesses and document management businesses. Rentals operating segment revenues consist predominantly of revenues derived from the rental of corporate identity uniforms, mats, shop towels and other rental services. Revenue from the Rentals segment increased 4.3%, when adjusted for the extra workday that occurred in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003. Internal revenue growth for the Rentals segment was 4.2%, adjusted for the additional workday. The amount of acquired rental volume was insignificant for the year ending May 31, 2004. The increase in Rentals revenue was primarily due to growth in the customer base as well as the continued penetration of ancillary products into our existing customer base. New business remained healthy as we experienced continued success in selling uniform rental programs to new customers. We continue to expand our rental market, with over half of our new business being comprised of customers who were first time users of uniform rental programs. Rentals revenue growth was mitigated by lost business and reductions in existing business attributable to the sluggish economy, especially during the first half of the year. Other Services operating segment revenues are predominantly derived from the design, manufacture and direct sale of uniforms to our customers and the sale of other direct sale products and services. Other direct sale products and services include restroom and cleanroom supplies, first aid and safety products and services and document management services. Other Services revenue increased 4.4%, when adjusted for the extra workday that occurred in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003, primarily due to acquisitions of first aid and safety services and document management businesses. Internal revenue in the Other Services segment, adjusted for the additional workday in fiscal 2004, decreased by 1.3% for the year. This decrease was mainly due to the continued difficulty experienced by our uniform direct sale customers in the hospitality and airline industries. Weakness in the hospitality sector and delayed purchases by large national account customers has continued to impact our direct sales effort. Partially offsetting this internal revenue decrease in uniform direct sale revenues were increased revenues from the sale of first aid products and services and document management services. Cost of rentals increased 4.2% over fiscal 2003. Cost of rentals consists primarily of production expenses, delivery expenses and the amortization of in service inventory, including uniforms and other rental items. The cost increase over fiscal 2003 was primarily driven by the growth in Rentals segment revenues. An increase in fuel and energy costs and a rise in labor delivery costs also contributed to this increase. Further assimilation of operations obtained through the Omni acquisition and various cost containment initiatives implemented throughout the year mitigated the increased fuel, energy and delivery costs. Cost of other services increased 2.8% over fiscal 2003. Cost of other services consists primarily of cost of goods sold (predominantly uniforms and first aid products), delivery expenses and distribution expenses. The increase over fiscal 2003 was due to the growth in Other Services revenue, derived predominantly through acquisitions. The increased volume afforded additional overhead coverage, thereby providing a decrease in cost of other services as a percent to Other Services revenue from 67% in fiscal 2003 to 66% in fiscal 2004. Sourcing and manufacturing efficiencies and other cost containment initiatives, including Six Sigma initiatives, implemented throughout the year supported this reduction in cost of other services as a percent to Other Services revenue. Selling and administrative expenses increased 4.6% over fiscal 2003, primarily due to increased revenues. The continued rise in medical costs and increased legal expenses contributed to the increase. Net interest expense decreased $6 million from the prior year. This decrease was primarily a result of lower debt outstanding. Total outstanding debt decreased $79 million from May 31, 2003 to May 31, 2004, as cash from operations was used to reduce debt which had been incurred predominantly during the acquisition of Omni in May 2002 (see the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below and Note 5 entitled Long Term Debt of Note to Consolidated Financial Statements). 10 A write off of a loan receivable from a garment manufacturer is included in net income as a pre tax charge of $4.3 million. Due to developments concerning the suppliers viability to remain as a going concern, the collectibility of the receivable was doubtful. As such, the receivable was completely written off. Pre tax income was $432 million, a 9.2% increase over fiscal 2003. Pre tax income from the Rentals segment increased 6.7% over the prior year due to higher rental revenue, increased efficiencies obtained from the assimilation of operations obtained from the Omni acquisition and various cost containment initiatives. Pre tax income for the Other Services segment increased 19.6% from the prior year, due to increased sales volume, the continued leveraging of fixed costs and sourcing and cost containment initiatives. Cintas effective tax rate was 37% for both fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003 (see also Note 7 entitled Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Net income for fiscal 2004 of $272 million was a 9% increase over fiscal 2003 and diluted earnings per share of $1.58 was a 9% increase over fiscal 2003. Return on average equity was 15% in fiscal 2004 and 16% in fiscal 2003. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities increased by $197 million in fiscal 2004, or 341%, primarily due to increased revenues, a reduction in inventory levels and, to a lesser extent, a reduction in uniform and other rental items in service levels. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be used to finance future acquisitions, capital expenditures and expansion. Marketable securities consist primarily of municipal bonds and federal government securities. Accounts receivable increased $7 million due to increased revenues. Aggressive collection efforts provided for a lower sequential increase in accounts receivable as compared to total revenue growth. Inventories decreased $43 million due to improved processes and management systems, including cycle time reductions and other process improvements initiated primarily through our Six Sigma process. The completion of the Omni product line consolidation also contributed to this decrease in inventory levels. Net property and equipment increased by $8 million due to real estate purchased in conjunction with acquisitions of first aid and safety services and document management businesses. Depreciation expense exceeded capital expenditures by $4 million as Cintas continued to consolidate operations obtained from the Omni acquisition in May of 2002. In addition, due to excess plant capacity and a sluggish economy, Cintas slowed the pace of new plant construction. During the year, Cintas completed construction of four new uniform rental facilities and has an additional eight uniform rental facilities in various stages of construction to accommodate growth in rental operations. Total debt decreased $79 million through repayment of certain debt related to the purchase of Omni, net of the change in fair market value of the debt (see Note 5 entitled Long Term Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). This significant debt reduction was possible due to strong cash flows being generated by operations. FISCAL 2003 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2002 Fiscal 2003 marked the 34th year of uninterrupted growth for Cintas. Total revenue was $2.7 billion, an increase of 18% over fiscal 2002. This growth was achieved despite the difficult economic environment that existed throughout the year. The continued weakness in employment numbers directly affected our business, mainly through reduced uniform wearers, and caused our internal growth rate to be lower than our stated objective. We continued to grow organically in this environment, mainly through the continued sale of new uniform rental programs. Rentals operating segment revenues consist predominantly of revenues derived from the rental of corporate identity uniforms, mats, shop towels and other items through our Uniform Rental Division. Revenue from the Rentals segment increased 20%, primarily due to the acquisition of Omni in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 and growth in the customer base. Despite slow economic growth, internal growth in the Rentals segment, adjusted for one less workday during fiscal 2003, averaged over 4% for the year. New business remained healthy as we experienced continued success in selling uniform 11 rental programs to new customers. We continue to expand our rental market, with over half of our new business being comprised of customers who were first time users of uniform rental programs. Rentals revenue growth was mitigated by increased lost business and reductions in existing business, attributable to the current sluggish economy in the United States and the resulting reduction in the work force. Other Services operating segment revenues are derived from the design, manufacture and direct sale of uniforms to our customers, as well as the sale of ancillary services including restroom supplies, first aid products and services and cleanroom supplies. Other Services revenue increased 13%, primarily due to acquisitions made in late fiscal 2002 and increased customer sales. Despite slow economic growth, internal growth in the Other Services segment, adjusted for one less workday during fiscal 2003, averaged 2% for the year. Revenues from the sale of ancillary services increased 11% for the year due to increased selling efforts. This growth was partially offset by a 3% decrease in revenues from the direct sale of uniforms to our customers. This decrease was primarily a result of continued weakness in the hospitality sector and delayed purchases by large national account customers. Revenue growth in Other Services was also mitigated by increased lost business and reductions in existing business attributable to the current sluggish economy in the United States and the resulting reduction in the work force. Cost of rentals increased 23% over fiscal 2002. Cost of rentals consists primarily of production expenses, delivery expenses and amortization of in service uniforms and other rental items. The cost increase over fiscal 2002 was primarily driven by the growth in Rentals segment revenues. A rise in fuel and energy costs as well as an increase in delivery costs associated with the Omni acquisition (primarily due to expanded route geography and smaller route size) also contributed to this increase. Cost containment initiatives were implemented throughout the year which mitigated the increased fuel, energy and delivery costs. Cost of other services increased 9% over fiscal 2002. Cost of other services consists primarily of cost of goods sold (predominantly uniforms and first aid products), delivery expenses and distribution expenses. The increase over fiscal 2002 was due to the growth in Other Services revenue, derived primarily through acquisitions. The increased volume afforded additional overhead coverage, thereby providing a decrease in cost of other services as a percent to Other Services revenue from 70% in fiscal 2002 to 67% in fiscal 2003. Cost containment initiatives implemented throughout the year also supported this reduction in cost of other services as a percent to Other Services revenue. Selling and administrative expenses increased 20% over fiscal 2002. This increase was primarily due to increased revenues. The continued rise in medical costs and additional travel expenses also contributed to this increase. The increased travel expense was a result of the Omni acquisition and related integration, as well as a return to more normalized travel versus fiscal 2002, when travel expenses were lower due to the impact of the events of September 11. We also continue to invest heavily in our selling process in order to provide for future growth. Net interest expense increased $23 million from the prior year. This increase was primarily a result of interest on $450 million in long term notes issued in late fiscal 2002 to finance the Omni acquisition (see the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below and Note 5 entitled Long Term Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Pre tax income was $396 million, a 7% increase over fiscal 2002. Pre tax income from the Rentals segment increased 7% over the prior year, primarily due to the higher rental revenue. Pre tax income was negatively impacted by assimilation costs associated with the Omni acquisition. Pre tax income for the Other Services segment increased 84% from the prior year, due to increased sales volume and related leveraging of fixed costs. Cost containment initiatives were implemented throughout the year which mitigated increased delivery, medical and fuel costs. Cintas effective tax rate was 37% for both fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 (see also Note 7 entitled Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Net income for fiscal 2003 of $249 million was a 6% increase over fiscal 2002 and diluted earnings per share of $1.45 was a 7% increase over fiscal 2002. Return on average equity was 16% in fiscal 2003 and 18% in fiscal 2002. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities decreased by $27 million in fiscal 2003, or 32% primarily due to repayment of outstanding commercial paper. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be used to finance future acquisitions, capital expenditures and expansion. Marketable securities consist primarily of municipal bonds and federal government securities. 12 Accounts receivable decreased $5 million due to increased collection efforts given economic conditions. Inventories increased $35 million with additional levels needed to support customers obtained through acquisitions, including Omni, and the conversion of Omni customers to our product line. Additionally, Cintas is now manufacturing more products for our cleanroom and flame resistant clothing customers. Net property and equipment decreased by $1 million due to the excess of depreciation over capital expenditures. Certain capital expenditures were delayed in fiscal 2003 given reduced capacity requirements due to the sluggish economy. In fiscal 2003, Cintas completed construction of six new uniform rental facilities and had an additional six uniform rental facilities in various stages of construction to accommodate growth in rental operations. Total debt decreased $159 million through repayment of certain debt related to the purchase of Omni, net of the change in fair market value of the debt (see Note 5 entitled Long Term Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). This significant debt reduction was possible due to strong cash flows being generated by operations. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES At May 31, 2004, Cintas had $254 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, representing an increase of $197 million from May 31, 2003. This increase is primarily due to strong operational cash flows and a significant reduction in required inventory levels. Cash generated from operations was $510 million in fiscal 2004 as compared to $331 million generated in fiscal 2003. This $179 million increase was primarily due to increased net income in fiscal 2004 and the significant reduction in inventory levels. In fiscal 2003, inventory levels increased $35 million due to the acquisition of Omni and the subsequent conversion of Omni customers to the Cintas product line. Additionally, Cintas began manufacturing more products for cleanroom and flame resistant clothing customers. In fiscal 2004, inventory levels have decreased by $43 million through significant process improvements, including Six Sigma initiatives, and the consolidation of the Omni product line. Partially offsetting the increased cash flow was cash used for acquisitions of $102 million. Other significant uses of cash in fiscal 2004 were debt repayments of $69 million (adjusted for a $10 million change in derivatives), capital expenditures of $113 million and dividends of $50 million. Cintas investment policy pertaining to marketable securities is conservative. Preservation of principal, while earning an attractive yield, is the criteria used in making investment decisions. Working capital increased $136 million to $709 million in fiscal 2004. This increase is primarily the result of increased cash and marketable securities partially offset by the decrease in inventories discussed above. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2004 totaled $113 million, including $94 million for the Rentals segment and $19 million for Other Services. Cintas continues to reinvest in land, buildings and equipment in an effort to expand capacity for future growth. Cintas anticipates that capital expenditures for fiscal 2005 will be between $130 and $150 million. On May 13, 2002, Cintas completed the acquisition of Omni for approximately $659 million. This acquisition, coupled with smaller acquisitions in both the Rentals and Other Services segments, were financed with a combination of approximately $109 million in cash, $450 million in long term notes, and approximately $100 million in commercial paper. As a result of this additional debt, the total debt to total capitalization ratio was 34% at May 31, 2002. Significant debt repayments occurred in fiscal 2003 ($173 million) and fiscal 2004 ($69 million). The total debt to total capitalization ratio has decreased to 20% at May 31, 2004. The $450 million in long term notes consist of $225 million with five year maturities at a rate of 5.125% and $225 million with ten year maturities at a rate of 6%. Cintas has earned credit ratings on these notes of A from Standard & Poors and A2 from Moodys. Cintas also utilizes a $300 million commercial paper program, on which it has earned credit ratings of A 1 from Standard & Poors and Prime 1 from Moodys. These ratings reflect Cintas commitment to conservative financial policies, strong financial management and a disciplined integration strategy for acquisitions. The commercial paper program is fully supported by a long term credit facility that matures in 2009. As of May 31, 2004, there is no commercial paper outstanding. 13 During the year, Cintas paid dividends of $50 million, or $0.29 per share. On a per share basis, this dividend is an increase of 7% over the dividend paid in fiscal 2003. Following is information regarding Cintas long term contractual obligations and other commitments outstanding as of May 31, 2004: LONG TERM CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS Payments Due by Period Two to One year three Four to After five (In thousands) Total or less years five years years Long term debt (1) $ 480,741 $ 9,979 $ 9,979 $ 232,317 $ 228,466 Capital lease obligations (2) 3,467 544 1,163 1,146 614 Operating leases (3) 59,042 15,969 22,735 13,210 7,128 Unconditional purchase obligations Total contractual cash obligations $ 543,250 $ 26,492 $ 33,877 $ 246,673 $ 236,208 (1) Reference Note 5 entitled Long Term Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of long term debt. (2) Capital lease obligations are included in long term debt detailed in Note 5 entitled Long Term Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) Operating leases consist primarily of building leases and synthetic leases on the two corporate jets. OTHER COMMITMENTS Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period Two to One year three Four to After five (In thousands) Total or less years five years years Lines of credit (1) $ 300,000 $ $ $ $ 300,000 Standby letters of credit (2) 53,052 53,052 Guarantees Standby repurchase obligations Other commercial commitments Total commercial commitments $ 353,052 $ 53,052 $ $ $ 300,000 (1) Back up facility for the commercial paper program (reference Note 5 entitled Long Term Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). (2) Support certain outstanding debt (reference Note 5 entitled Long Term Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), self insured workers compensation and general liability insurance programs. INFLATION AND CHANGING PRICES Changes in wage, benefits and oil and fuel costs have the potential to materially impact Cintas financial results. Medical benefit costs in particular continue to rise, increasing approximately 18% annually over the last three fiscal years. Medical benefits accounted for approximately 3% of total revenues in fiscal 2004. Management believes inflation has not had a material impact on Cintas financial condition or a negative impact on operations. 14 LITIGATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Cintas is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising from the ordinary course of its business, including personal injury, customer contract, environmental and employment claims. In the opinion of management, the aggregate liability, if any, with respect to such ordinary course of business actions, will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations of Cintas. Cintas is party to additional litigation not considered in the ordinary course of business, including the litigation discussed below. Cintas is a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit, Paul Veliz, et al., v. Cintas Corporation, filed on March 19, 2003, in the United States District Court, Northern District of California, Oakland Division, alleging that Cintas violated certain federal and state wage and hour laws applicable to its service sales representatives, whom Cintas considers exempt employees, and asserting additional related ERISA claims. The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified monetary damages, injunctive relief, or both. Cintas denies these claims and is defending the plaintiffs allegations. The court ordered arbitration for all potential plaintiffs except for those that fall into one of four narrowly defined exceptions. As a result, Cintas believes that a majority of the potential plaintiffs will be required to arbitrate their claims. No determination has been made by the court or an arbitrator regarding class certification. There can be no assurance as to whether a class will be certified or, if a class is certified, as to the geographic or other scope of such class. If a court or arbitrator certifies a class in this action and there is an adverse verdict on the merits, or in the event of a negotiated settlement of the action, the resulting liability and or any increased costs of operations on an ongoing basis could be material to Cintas. Any estimated liability relating to this lawsuit is not determinable at this time. Cintas is also a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit, Robert Ramirez, et al., v. Cintas Corporation, filed on January 20, 2004, and pending in the United States District Court, Northern District of California, San Francisco Division. The case was brought on behalf of all past and present female, African American and Hispanic employees of Cintas and its subsidiaries. The complaint alleges that Cintas has engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women and minorities in recruitment, hiring, promotions, transfers, job assignments and pay. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, compensatory damages, punitive damages and attorneys fees, among other things. Cintas denies these claims and is defending the plaintiffs allegations. No filings or determination has been made as to class certification. There can be no assurance as to whether a class will be certified or, if a class is certified, as to the geographic or other scope of such class. If a court certifies a class in this action and there is an adverse verdict on the merits, or in the event of a negotiated settlement of the action, the resulting liability and or any increased costs of operations on an ongoing basis could be material to Cintas. Any estimated liability relating to this lawsuit is not determinable at this time. The litigation discussed above, if decided adversely to or settled by Cintas, may result in liability material to Cintas financial condition or results of operations. Cintas may enter into discussions regarding settlement of these and other lawsuits, and may enter into settlement agreements if it believes such settlement is in the best interests of Cintas shareholders. Cintas is subject to various environmental laws and regulations, as are other companies in the industry. While costs related to environmental compliance are not a material component of the cost of rentals, Cintas must incur capital expenditures and associated operating costs for water treatment and waste removal on a regular basis. Environmental spending amounted to approximately $12 million in fiscal 2004 and $12 million in fiscal 2003. This spending includes labor and chemical costs for water treatment, as well as costs for waste removal. Capital expenditures to limit or monitor hazardous substances were $3 million in fiscal 2004 and $3 million in fiscal 2003. These expenditures were primarily related to the purchase of water treatment systems. 15 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51. The Interpretation requires the consolidation of entities in which an enterprise absorbs a majority of the entitys expected losses, receives a majority of the entitys expected residual returns, or both, as a result of ownership, contractual or other financial interests in the entity. Currently, entities are generally consolidated by an enterprise when it has a controlling financial interest through ownership of a majority voting interest in the entity. Cintas adopted this Interpretation on July 1, 2003, with no material effect to its financial statements. In December 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148 (SFAS 148), Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure. This Statement amends FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. In addition, this Statement amends the disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements regarding the method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. Cintas continues to apply Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 for the method used to account for stock based employee compensation arrangements, where applicable, but has adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS 148. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of Cintas consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and judgments that have a significant effect on the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. These critical accounting policies should be read in conjunction with Note 1 entitled Significant Accounting Policies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Significant changes, estimates or assumptions related to any of the following critical accounting policies could possibly have a material impact on the financial statements. Revenue recognition Rental revenue is recognized when services are performed and other services revenue is recognized when products are shipped and the title and risks of ownership pass to the customer. Cintas also establishes an allowance for uncollectible accounts. This allowance is an estimate based on historical rates of collectibility. An uncollectible accounts provision is recorded for overdue amounts, beginning with a nominal percentage and increasing substantially as the account ages. The amount provided as the account ages will differ slightly between the Rentals and Other Services segments, because of differences in customers served and the nature of each business segment. Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first in, first out) or market. Substantially all inventories represent finished goods. Cintas applies a commonly accepted practice of using inventory turns to apply variances between actual to standard costs to the inventory balances. The judgments and estimates used to calculate inventory turns will have an impact on the valuation of inventory at the lower of cost or market. Inventory obsolescence is determined by specific identification, as well as an estimate based on historical rates of obsolescence. Uniforms and other rental items in service Uniform and other rental items in service are valued at cost less amortization, calculated using the straight line method. Uniforms in service (other than cleanroom and flame resistant garments) are amortized over their useful life of eighteen months. Other rental items including shop towels, mats, cleanroom garments, flame resistant garments, linens and restroom dispensers are amortized over their useful lives of eight to forty eight months. The amortization rates used are based on industry experience, Cintas experience and wear tests performed by Cintas. These factors are critical to determining the amount of in service inventory that is presented in the financial statements. 16 Property and equipment Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which is typically thirty to forty years for buildings, five to twenty years for building improvements, three to ten years for equipment and two to five years for leasehold improvements. When events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long lived assets may not be recoverable, the estimated future cash flows (undiscounted) are compared to the carrying amount of the assets. If the estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the assets, an impairment loss is recorded. The impairment loss is measured by comparing the fair value of the assets with their carrying amounts. Fair value is determined by discounted cash flows or appraised values, as appropriate. Long lived assets that are held for disposal are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or the fair value, less estimated costs related to disposition. Goodwill and impairment Goodwill, primarily obtained through acquisitions of businesses, is valued at cost less any impairment. Cintas performs an annual impairment test. Based on the results of the impairment tests, Cintas has not recognized an impairment of goodwill for the years ended May 31, 2004, 2003 or 2002. Service contracts and other assets Service contracts and other assets, which consist primarily of noncompete and consulting agreements obtained through acquisitions of businesses, are amortized by use of the straight line method over the estimated lives of the agreements, which are generally five to ten years. Certain noncompete agreements, as well as all service contracts, require that a valuation be determined using a discounted cash flow model. The assumptions and judgments used in these models involve estimates of cash flows and discount rates, among other factors. Because of the assumptions used to value these intangible assets, actual results over time could vary from original estimates. Environmental and litigation Cintas is subject to legal proceedings and claims related to environmental matters arising from the ordinary course of business. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that a liability for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that a liability has occurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required to determine the existence of a liability, as well as the amount to be recorded. Cintas regularly consults with attorneys to ensure that all of the relevant facts and circumstances are considered before a contingent liability is recorded. While a significant change in assumptions and judgments could have a material impact on the amounts recorded for contingent liabilities, Cintas does not believe that they will result in a material adverse effect on the financial statements. A detailed discussion of litigation matters is included in Note 12 entitled Litigation and Environmental Matters of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Income taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined by the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. Please reference Note 7 entitled Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the types of items that give rise to significant deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Deferred income taxes are classified as assets or liabilities based on the classification of the related asset or liability for financial reporting purposes. Deferred income taxes that are not related to an asset or liability for financial reporting are classified according to the expected reversal date. Cintas regularly reviews deferred tax assets for recoverability based upon projected future taxable income and the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences. As a result of this review, Cintas has not established a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets. Cintas is periodically reviewed by domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These reviews include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various filing positions, Cintas records reserves for probable exposures. Based on Cintas evaluation of current tax positions, Cintas believes it has appropriately accrued for probable exposures. 17 OUTLOOK As we look forward to fiscal 2005, our outlook is positive, but guarded. The economy has been gaining traction as employment figures strengthen. Our internal growth rates have been improving as well. We see significant upside potential for all of our business units, especially given our relatively low 9% market share of a $31 billion estimated potential market. Although difficult to predict, we anticipate continued growth in all of our business units. Overall performance will be largely driven by the continued recovery in the economy. In the marketplace, competition and related pricing pressure will continue; however, we believe cost containment initiatives, technological advances and continued leverage of our infrastructure will soften or offset any impact. When appropriate opportunities arise, we will supplement our internal growth with strategic acquisitions. Like most other companies, we experienced, and anticipate continuing to experience, increased costs for wages and benefits, including medical benefits. Changes in oil and fuel costs also have the potential to impact our results. Cintas is currently the target of a corporate unionization campaign by UNITE HERE and the Teamsters unions. These unions are attempting to pressure Cintas into surrendering our employees rights to a government supervised election and unilaterally accept union representation. This is unacceptable. Cintas philosophy in regard to unions is straightforward: We believe that employees have the right to say yes to union representation and the freedom to say no. This campaign could be materially disruptive to our business and could materially adversely affect results of operations. We will continue to vigorously oppose this campaign and to defend our employees rights. We believe that the high level of customer service provided by our partners and supported by our infrastructure, quality products, financial resources and corporate culture will provide for continued business success. However, a number of factors influence future revenue, margins and profit which make forecasting difficult. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK Cintas manages interest rate risk by using a combination of variable and fixed rate debt, marketable securities and interest rate swap agreements. Earnings are affected by changes in short term interest rates due to the use of variable rate notes and revolving credit facilities amounting to approximately $230 million, with an average interest rate of 2.63%. This exposure is limited by the purchase of marketable securities and interest rate swap agreements as a hedge against variability in short term rates. If short term rates change by one half percent (or 50 basis points), Cintas income before taxes would change by approximately $1.1 million. This estimated exposure considers the mitigating effects of marketable securities and swap agreements on the change in the cost of variable rate debt. This analysis does not consider the effects of a change in economic activity or a change in Cintas capital structure. 18 
 
