Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Strategy Cintas provides highly specialized products and services to businesses of all types throughout the United States and Canada. We refer to ourselves as The Service Professionals. We bring value to our customers by helping them provide a cleaner, safer, more pleasant atmosphere for their customers and employees. Our products and services are designed to improve our customers image. We also help our customers protect their employees and their company by enhancing workplace safety and helping to ensure legal compliance in key areas of their business. We are North Americas leading provider of corporate identity uniforms through rental and sales programs, as well as a significant provider of related business services, including entrance mats, restroom products and services, first aid, safety and fire protection products and services, document management services and branded promotional products. Our business strategy is to achieve revenue growth for all of our products and services by increasing our penetration at existing customers and by broadening our customer base to include business segments to which Cintas has not historically served. We will also continue to identify additional product and service opportunities for our current and future customers. Our long term goal is to provide a product or service to every business in North America. To pursue the strategy of increasing penetration, we have a highly talented and diverse team of service professionals visiting our customers on a regular basis. This frequent contact with our customers enables us to develop close personal relationships. The combination of our distribution system and these strong customer relationships provides a platform from which we launch additional products and services. We pursue the strategy of broadening our customer base in a few ways. Cintas has a national sales organization introducing all of our products and services to prospects in all business segments. Our ever expanding range of products and services allows our sales organization to consider any type of business a prospect. We also broaden our customer base through geographic expansion, especially in our emerging businesses of first aid and safety, fire protection and document management. Finally, we will continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions as opportunities arise. Continuous cost containment and product and process innovation are considered hallmarks of our organization. In order to sustain these efforts, we employ a Six Sigma effort within Cintas. Six Sigma is an analytical process that assists companies in improving quality and customer satisfaction while reducing cycle time and operating costs. We are pleased with our progress in this endeavor and are optimistic about the improved efficiencies that this process will continue to yield to Cintas. Results of Operations Fiscal 2007 marked the 38th consecutive year of uninterrupted growth in sales and profits for Cintas. In addition to achieving this milestone, Cintas increased its diluted earnings per share by 8.9% and its dividends paid to shareholders by 11.4%. During fiscal 2007, we reorganzied our sales efforts to become more efficient and productive. This reorganization effort has taken longer and been more costly in fiscal 2007 than anticipated. However, Cintas continues to believe that this reorganization will benefit revenue growth results in the long term. Cintas classifies its businesses into two operating segments, Rentals and Other Services, based on the similar economic and organizational characteristics of the products and services within each segment. The Rentals segment reflects the rental and servicing of uniforms and other garments, mats, mops and shop towels. In addition to these rental items, we also provide our restroom and hygiene products and services within this segment. The Other Services segment consists of the direct sale of uniforms and related items, first aid, safety and fire protection products and services, document management services and branded promotional products. Both segments provide these products and services throughout the United States and Canada to businesses of all types from small service and manufacturing companies to major corporations that employ thousands of people. 16 The following table sets forth certain consolidated statements of income data as a percentage of revenue by segment and in total for the periods indicated: 2007 2006 2005 (Restated)* (Restated)* Revenue: Rentals 73.8% 75.5% 77.1% Other services 26.2% 24.5% 22.9% Total revenue 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Cost of sales: Rentals 55.4% 54.8% 54.8% Other services 62.8% 64.9% 66.3% Total cost of sales 57.3% 57.3% 57.5% Gross margin: Rentals 44.6% 45.2% 45.2% Other services 37.2% 35.1% 33.7% Total gross margin 42.7% 42.7% 42.5% Selling and administrative expenses 27.1% 26.8% 26.6% Interest income 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% Interest expense 1.4% 0.9% 0.8% Income before income taxes 14.4% 15.2% 15.3% * Restated to reflect the adoption of FAS 123(R) using the modified retrospective method. See Note 1 entitled Significant Accounting Policies in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." As evidenced above, our revenue growth continues to be higher in the Other Services segment versus the Rentals segment, resulting in a moderate shift in the percentage of revenue between our segments. This shift was mainly driven by the acquisitions of first aid, safety and fire protection businesses and document management businesses. Information related to acquisitions is discussed in Note 8 entitled Acquisitions of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 total revenue was $3.7 billion, an increase of 8.9% over fiscal 2006. Internal growth was 5.3% in fiscal 2007, compared to 7.8% in fiscal 2006. This decline in internal growth is due to economic pressure experienced throughout the year from the continued off shoring of manufacturing jobs as well as the ripple effect felt at other customers that serve these manufacturing businesses. In addition, the reorganization of our sales force has taken longer in the current year than we anticipated. Our internal growth continues to be generated mainly through the sale of uniform rental programs to new customers and the increased penetration of ancillary products to our existing customer base. The remaining growth in total revenue was generated predominantly through acquisitions of rental, first aid, safety and fire protection service businesses and document management businesses. Information related to acquisitions is discussed in Note 8 entitled Acquisitions of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Rentals segment revenues consist predominantly of revenues derived from the rental of corporate identity uniforms and other garments, and the rental and or sale of mats, mops, shop towels, restroom supplies and other rental services. Revenue from the Rentals segment increased 6.5% over fiscal 2006. Internal growth for the Rentals segment was 4.2% in fiscal 2007. The increase in the Rentals segment revenue was primarily due to growth in the customer base as well as the continued penetration of ancillary products into our existing customer base. New business remained the main driver of our internal growth as we continued to sell rental programs to new customers. We also continued to expand our rental market, with over half of our new business being 17 comprised of customers who were first time users of uniform rental programs. The remaining growth of 2.3% in fiscal 2007 resulted from the acquisition of rental volume. Other Services segment revenues are predominantly derived from the design, manufacture and direct sale of uniforms and related items, first aid, safety and fire protection products and services, document management services and branded promotional products. The Other Services segment revenue increased 16.5% over fiscal 2006. Internal growth in the Other Services segment was 8.6% in fiscal 2007. This internal growth was mainly due to an increase in the customer base and through further penetration of first aid, safety and fire protection products and services and document management services into our existing customer base. The remaining revenue growth of 7.9% was generated through the acquisitions of first aid, safety and fire protection businesses and document management businesses. Cost of rentals increased 7.7% over fiscal 2006. Cost of rentals consists primarily of production expenses, delivery expenses and the amortization of in service inventory, including uniforms, mats, shop towels and other rental items. The cost increase over fiscal 2006 was primarily driven by the growth in Rentals segment revenues. In addition, delivery labor increased $34.1 million due to increased Rentals segment revenue and the introduction of our restroom cleaning service. As a result, cost of rentals as a percent of Rentals segment revenues increased to 55.4% in fiscal 2007 compared to 54.8% in fiscal 2006. Cost of other services increased 12.6% over fiscal 2006. Cost of other services consists primarily of cost of goods sold (predominantly uniforms and first aid products), delivery expenses and distribution expenses. The increase over fiscal 2006 was due to the growth in Other Services revenue, derived through a combination of internal growth and acquisitions. Gross margin within this segment may fluctuate depending on the type of product or service sold, as more cost efficient sourcing is employed and as products which require additional services or specialization generate higher gross margins. For example, tailored garments that incorporate high levels of design and customization tend to generate higher gross margins than work wear and standard catalog items. The gross margin for fiscal 2007 is 37.2%. The gross margin for the Other Services segment has historically been in the 30% to 35% range. However, a combination of economies of scale at growing operations, Six Sigma, sourcing improvements and other cost containment initiatives have allowed us to exceed this historical range. Due to the success of these initiatives and our continued efforts, we believe the future gross margins will be in the 35% to 40% range. Selling and administrative expenses increased 10.1% over fiscal 2006. Selling and administrative expenses increased mainly due to higher selling expenses. In fiscal 2007, we reorganized our sales efforts to become more efficient and productive in the long term. This reorganization, as well as increased marketing plans and sales promotions, combined to increase our selling costs by $32.6 million over the prior fiscal year. The cost of providing medical and retirement benefits to our employees increased $21.8 million, representing a 15.7% increase over the prior year. In addition, administrative expenses increased by $7.1 million due to the amortization of intangibles generated by new acquisitions and $6.2 million as a result of an increase in professional services relating to legal and the outsourcing of certain human resource functions. We also terminated a cash settled forward starting interest rate swap (forward starting swap) resulting in a $6.2 million reduction of administrative expenses. This forward starting swap is explained in more detail in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below. Net interest expense (interest expense less interest income) increased $18.8 million from the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily a result of increased interest expense from higher debt outstanding as a result of our share buybacks. Income before income tax was $533.6 million, a 3.0% increase over fiscal 2006. Income before income tax from the Rentals segment decreased 0.1% over the prior year due to higher selling expenses associated with the reorganization of the sales force and higher delivery labor primarily as a result of our restroom cleaning service. Income before income tax for the Other Services segment increased 45.7% from the prior year mainly due to increased revenue and cost containment initiatives. Cintas effective tax rate was 37.3% for fiscal 2007, as compared to 37.6% for fiscal 2006 (see also Note 7 entitled Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Net income for fiscal 2007 of $334.5 million was a 3.4% increase over fiscal 2006, and diluted earnings per share of $2.09 was an 8.9% increase over fiscal 2006. The increase in diluted earnings per share was greater than the increase in net income due to the impact of the share buyback program, which is discussed in more detail in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below. Return on average equity was 15.7% in fiscal 2007 and 15.4% in fiscal 2006. Return on average equity is computed as net income divided by the average of shareholders equity. 18 We believe that this calculation gives management and shareholders a good indication of Cintas historical performance. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Certain amounts below have been restated for the effects of the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 123(R), Shared Based Payment, using the modified retrospective method. See the Stock based compensation section below within Critical Accounting Policies for further information. Fiscal 2006 total revenue was $3.4 billion, an increase of 11.0% over fiscal 2005. Internal growth improved in fiscal 2006 to 7.8%, up from 6.3% in fiscal 2005. Our internal growth continues to be generated mainly through the continued sale of uniform rental programs to new customers and the increased penetration of ancillary products to our existing customer base. The remaining growth in total revenue was generated predominantly through acquisitions of rental, first aid, safety and fire protection service businesses and document management businesses. Information related to acquisitions is discussed in Note 8 entitled Acquisitions of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Rentals segment revenues consist predominantly of revenues derived from the rental of corporate identity uniforms and other garments, and the rental and or sale of mats, mops, shop towels, restroom supplies and other rental services. Revenue from the Rentals segment increased 8.7% over fiscal 2005. The increase in Rentals segment revenue was primarily due to growth in the customer base as well as the continued penetration of ancillary products into our existing customer base. New business remained healthy as we experienced continued success in selling rental programs to new customers. We also continued to expand our rental market, with over half of our new business being comprised of customers who were first time users of uniform rental programs. Internal revenue growth for the Rentals segment was 7.3% in fiscal 2006 compared to 6.8% in fiscal 2005. We estimate that the effects of hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma negatively impacted our Rentals segment internal growth rate by approximately 0.3%. The 1.4% of remaining growth in fiscal 2006 resulted from the acquisition of rental volume. Other Services segment revenues are predominantly derived from the design, manufacture and direct sale of uniforms and related items, first aid, safety and fire protection products and services, document management services and branded promotional products. Other Services segment revenue increased 18.6% over fiscal 2005, primarily due to acquisitions of first aid, safety and fire protection businesses and document management businesses. Internal revenue in the Other Services segment increased 9.6% over fiscal 2005. This increase was mainly driven by the growth of the sale of first aid, safety and fire protection products and services and document management services. We estimate that the effects of hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma negatively impacted our Other Services segment internal growth rate by approximately 0.4%. Growth in the Other Services segment continues to be through an increase in the customer base and through further penetration of additional products and services into our existing customer base. Cost of rentals increased 8.6% over fiscal 2005. Cost of rentals consists primarily of production expenses, delivery expenses and the amortization of in service inventory, including uniforms, mats, shop towels and other rental items. The cost increase over fiscal 2005 was primarily driven by the growth in Rentals segment revenues. However, rising energy costs also contributed to this increase. Rentals segment energy costs increased 31.7% in fiscal 2006, from $77.6 million in fiscal 2005 to $102.2 million in fiscal 2006. Various cost containment initiatives implemented throughout the year helped offset the significant increase in energy costs. As a result, cost of rentals as of percent of Rentals segment revenues remained at 54.8% in both fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005. Increases in energy costs will continue to impact our results of operations negatively in coming quarters, except to the extent we are able to offset such costs with price increases and increased operating efficiencies. Our New Orleans rental operation and Gulf Coast direct sale business continue to be impacted negatively by hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. While physical damage to our facilities was minimal, many of our customers in the region have yet to reopen or to return to pre hurricane staffing levels. This lower business volume will continue to have an impact on our results. We are actively pursuing recoupment of our losses related to these hurricanes with our insurance carrier. We do not yet have a clear indication of when a recoupment agreement will be resolved, nor can we be sure of the amount we will receive. 19 Cost of other services increased 16.2% over fiscal 2005. Cost of other services consists primarily of cost of goods sold (predominantly uniforms and first aid products), delivery expenses and distribution expenses. The increase over fiscal 2005 was due to the growth in Other Services segment revenue, derived through a combination of internal growth and acquisitions. Gross margin within this segment may fluctuate depending on the type of product or service sold, as more cost efficient sourcing is employed and as products which require additional services or specialization generate higher gross margins. For example, tailored garments that incorporate high levels of design and customization tend to generate higher gross margins than work wear and standard catalog items. The gross margin for fiscal 2006 is 35.1%. The gross margin for the Other Services segment has historically been in the 30% to 35% range. However, Six Sigma and other cost containment initiatives have allowed us to exceed this historical range. Due to the success of these initiatives and our continued efforts, we believe the future gross margins will be in the 32% to 37% range. Selling and administrative expenses increased 11.4% over fiscal 2005. Selling and administrative expenses increased mainly due to higher selling expenses. In order to accelerate revenue growth, we have increased our sales force, marketing plans and sales promotions. These measures combined to increase our selling costs by $24.0 million over the prior fiscal year. The cost of providing medical and retirement benefits to our employees increased $17.0 million, representing a 13.9% increase over the prior year. In addition, administrative expenses increased by $4.7 million as a result of an increase in the bad debt reserve and by $11.8 million as a result of an increase in professional services relating to legal and the outsourcing of certain human resource functions. Administrative expenses also increased by $5.2 million due to the amortization of intangibles generated by new acquisitions. Net interest expense (interest expense less interest income) increased $7.5 million from the prior fiscal year. This increase in net interest expense is due to increased interest rates on our outstanding debt and the increased level of borrowing used to fund acquisitions and the stock buyback program. Income before income tax was $518.0 million, a 10.4% increase over fiscal 2005. Income before income tax from the Rentals segment increased 9.5% over the prior year due to higher rental revenue and various cost containment initiatives, which offset the increases in selling expenses, medical and energy costs. Income before income tax for the Other Services segment increased 27.0% from the prior year mainly due to increased revenue and cost containment initiatives. Cintas effective tax rate was 37.6% for both fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 (see also Note 7 entitled Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Net income for fiscal 2006 of $323.4 million was a 10.5% increase over fiscal 2005, and diluted earnings per share of $1.92 was a 13.6% increase over fiscal 2005. The increase in diluted earnings per share was greater than the increase in net income due to the impact of the share buyback program, which is discussed in more detail in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below. Return on average equity was 15.4% in fiscal 2006 and 14.7% in fiscal 2005. Return on average equity is computed as net income divided by the average of shareholders equity. We believe that this calculation gives management and shareholders a good indication of Cintas historical performance. Liquidity and Capital Resources At May 31, 2007, Cintas had $155.4 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, representing a decrease of $86.0 million from May 31, 2006, or 35.6%. This decrease is primarily due to acquisitions and the share buyback program. Cash generated from operations was $449.4 million in fiscal 2007 as compared to $461.0 million generated in fiscal 2006. This $11.6 million decrease was primarily due to increased inventory levels and increased taxes paid, offset by increased net income and lower rental items in service. Significant uses of cash in fiscal 2007 were capital expenditures of $180.8 million, acquisitions of $160.7 million (net of cash acquired), repurchases of common stock of $198.9 million and dividends of $62.0 million. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be used to finance future acquisitions, capital expenditures, expansion and share buybacks. Marketable securities consist primarily of municipal bonds and federal government securities. Cintas investment policy pertaining to marketable securities is conservative. The criteria used in making investment decisions is the preservation of principal, while earning an attractive yield. Accounts receivable increased $19.0 million, primarily due to increased revenues. The average collection period in fiscal 2007 remained comparable with fiscal 2006. 20 Inventories increased $33.7 million, or 17.0%. Inventory levels at May 31, 2006, were relatively low due to strong uniform sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. The increase in inventory from May 31, 2006 to May 31, 2007, reflects a replenishment of inventory to more normalized levels. Working capital decreased $14.0 million to $753.7 million in fiscal 2007. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in marketable securities for the execution of the share buyback program. Net property and equipment increased by $56.5 million due to continued investment in rental facilities and equipment and real estate purchased in conjunction with the acquisitions of rental, first aid, safety and fire protection and document management businesses. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2007 totaled $180.8 million, including $132.8 million for the Rentals segment and $48.0 million for the Other Services segment, exceeding depreciation expense by approximately $45.6 million. Cintas continues to reinvest in land, buildings and equipment in an effort to expand capacity for future growth. During the year, Cintas completed construction of two new uniform rental facilities and has an additional five uniform rental facilities in various stages of construction to accommodate growth in rental operations. Cintas anticipates that capital expenditures for fiscal 2008 will be between $170.0 and $190.0 million. Long term debt totaled $877.1 million at May 31, 2007. This amount includes $225.0 million in long term debt due on June 1, 2007, that was refinanced effective June 1, 2007, under Cintas existing commercial paper program. Long term debt also includes $225.0 million of ten year senior notes at a rate of 6.0% which was borrowed in order to finance the Omni acquisition in fiscal 2002 and $250.0 million of thirty year senior notes issued in August 2006 at a rate of 6.15%. Proceeds from the thirty year senior notes issuance were used to extinguish outstanding commercial paper at the time of that debt issuance. Cintas has earned credit ratings on these notes of A from Standard & Poors and A2 from Moodys. In addition, long term debt also includes $168.0 million in commercial paper. Cintas utilizes a $600.0 million commercial paper program, on which it has earned credit ratings of A 1 from Standard & Poors and Prime 1 from Moodys. We believe these ratings are reflective of our commitment to conservative financial policies, strong financial management and a disciplined integration strategy for acquisitions. The commercial paper program is fully supported by a long term credit facility that matures in fiscal 2011. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, Cintas entered into a forward starting swap to protect forecasted interest payments from interest rate movement in anticipation of a $200.0 million, 30 year debt issuance in early fiscal 2008. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, Cintas changed its intent on issuing this 30 year debt. This decision was based on current market conditions and interest rate environment as well as the additional payment flexibility provided to Cintas under its commercial paper program. As a result of this decision, Cintas terminated the forward starting swap and recorded the resulting $6.2 million gain in fiscal 2007 as a reduction of administrative expenses. Cintas total debt to capitalization ratio has increased from 27.6% at May 31, 2006, to 28.9% at May 31, 2007. Total debt increased $82.4 million in fiscal 2007 through the net activity of debt issuance noted above (see Note 5 entitled Long Term Debt and Note 8 entitled Acquisitions of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). This additional indebtedness was used to execute the share buyback program. During fiscal 2007, Cintas bought back $198.9 million of Cintas stock. During the year, Cintas paid dividends of $62.0 million, or $0.39 per share. On a per share basis, this dividend is an increase of 11.4% over the dividend paid in fiscal 2006. This marks the 24th consecutive year that Cintas has increased its annual dividend since going public in 1983. On May 2, 2005, Cintas announced that the Board of Directors authorized a $500.0 million stock buyback program at market prices. In July 2006, Cintas announced that the Board of Directors approved the expansion of its share buyback program by an additional $500.0 million. During fiscal 2007, Cintas purchased 4.8 million shares of Cintas stock at an average price of $41.38 per share, for a total purchase price of approximately $198.9 million. From the inception of the stock buyback program through July 27, 2007, Cintas has purchased 14.2 million shares of Cintas stock at an average price of $40.89 per share for a total purchase price of approximately $580.6 million. The Board of Directors did not specify an expiration date for this program. 21 Following is information regarding Cintas long term contractual obligations and other commitments outstanding as of May 31, 2007: Long Term Contractual Obligations Payments Due by Period (In thousands) Total One year or less Two to three years Four to five years After five years Long term debt (1) $ 879,454 $ 3,521 $ 1,379 $ 394,251 $ 480,303 Capital lease obligations (2) 1,761 620 661 240 240 Operating leases (3) 76,198 22,352 30,631 15,431 7,784 Interest payments (4) 589,738 48,471 80,056 87,563 373,648 Interest swap agreements (5) Unconditional purchase obligations Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,547,151 $ 74,964 $ 112,727 $ 497,485 $ 861,975 Cintas also makes payments to defined contribution plans. The amounts of contributions made to the plans are made at the discretion of Cintas. Future contributions are expected to increase 10% annually. Assuming this 10% increase, payments due in one year or less would be $31,986, two to three years would be $73,887 and four to five years would be $89,404. Payments for years thereafter are expected to continue increasing by 10% each year. (1) Long term debt primarily consists of $700,000 in long term notes and $168,000 in commercial paper. Reference Note 5 entitled Long Term Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of long term debt. (2) Capital lease obligations are included in long term debt detailed in Note 5 entitled Long Term Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) Operating leases consist primarily of building leases and a synthetic lease on a corporate jet. (4) Interest payments include interest on both fixed and variable rate debt. Rates have been assumed to increase 25 basis points for fiscal 2008, an additional 25 basis points in fiscal 2009 and then remain constant in future years. (5) Reference Note 5 entitled Long Term Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of interest swap agreements. Other Commitments Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period (In thousands) Total One year or less Two to three years Four to five years After five years Lines of credit (1) $ 600,000 $ $ $ 600,000 $ Standby letters of credit (2) 75,453 75,453 Guarantees Standby repurchase obligations Other commercial commitments Total commercial commitments $ 675,453 $ 75,453 $ $ 600,000 $ (1) Back up facility for the commercial paper program (reference Note 5 entitled Long Term Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). (2) Support certain outstanding debt (reference Note 5 entitled Long Term Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), self insured workers compensation and general liability insurance programs. Cintas has no off balance sheet arrangements other than the synthetic lease on a corporate jet. The synthetic lease on the aircraft does not currently have, and is not reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on Cintas financial condition, changes in Cintas financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 22 Inflation and Changing Prices Changes in wages, benefits and energy costs have the potential to materially impact Cintas financial results. Medical benefits and energy costs, in particular, continue to rise. Medical benefit costs have increased due to a combination of rising healthcare costs and an increase in the number of covered participants. Medical benefits were 3.4% of total revenues in fiscal 2007 and 3.2% of total revenues in fiscal 2006. Energy costs were 3.3% of total revenues in fiscal 2007 and 3.4% of total revenues in fiscal 2006. Management believes inflation has not had a material impact on Cintas financial condition or a negative impact on operations. Litigation and Other Contingencies Cintas is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising from the ordinary course of its business, including personal injury, customer contract, environmental and employment claims. In the opinion of management, the aggregate liability, if any, with respect to such ordinary course of business actions, will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations of Cintas. Cintas is party to additional litigation not considered in the ordinary course of business, including the litigation discussed below. Cintas is a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit, Paul Veliz, et al. v. Cintas Corporation, filed on March 19, 2003, in the United States District Court, Northern District of California, Oakland Division, alleging that Cintas violated certain federal and state wage and hour laws applicable to its service sales representatives, whom Cintas considers exempt employees, and asserting additional related ERISA claims. On August 23, 2005, an amended complaint was filed alleging additional state law wage and hour claims under the following state laws: Arkansas, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Mexico, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Washington, West Virginia and Wisconsin. The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified monetary damages, injunctive relief or both. Cintas denies these claims and is defending the plaintiffs allegations. On February 14, 2006, the court ordered a majority of the opt in plaintiffs to arbitrate their claims in accordance with the terms of their Cintas employment agreement. On February 14, 2006, the court also permitted plaintiffs to file a second amended complaint alleging state law claims in the 15 states listed above only with respect to the putative class members that may litigate their claims in court. No determination has been made by the court or an arbitrator regarding class certification. There can be no assurance as to whether a class will be certified or, if a class is certified, as to the geographic or other scope of such class. If a court or arbitrator certifies a class in this action and there is an adverse verdict on the merits, or in the event of a negotiated settlement of the action, the resulting liability and or any increased costs of operations on an ongoing basis could be material to Cintas. Any estimated liability relating to this lawsuit is not determinable at this time. Cintas also is a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit, Mirna E. Serrano, et al. v. Cintas Corporation, filed on May 10, 2004, and pending in the United States District Court, Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division (Serrano). Serrano alleges that Cintas discriminated against women in hiring into various service sales representative positions across all divisions of Cintas throughout the United States. On November 15, 2005, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) intervened in the Serrano lawsuit. The Serrano plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys fees and other remedies. Cintas is a defendant in another purported class action lawsuit, Nelly Blanca Avalos, et al. v. Cintas Corporation, currently pending in the United States District Court, Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division (Avalos). Avalos alleges that Cintas discriminated against women, African Americans and Hispanics in hiring into various service sales representative positions in Cintas Rental division only throughout the United States. On April 27, 2005, the EEOC intervened in the claims asserted in Avalos. The Avalos plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys fees and other remedies. The claims in Avalos originally were brought in the previously disclosed lawsuit captioned Robert Ramirez, et al. v. Cintas Corporation, filed on January 20, 2004, in the United States District Court, Northern District of California, San Francisco Division (Ramirez). On May 11, 2006, however, those claims were severed from Ramirez and transferred to the Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division, where the case was re named Avalos. On July 10, 2006, Avalos and Serrano were consolidated for all pretrial purposes, including proceedings on class certification. The consolidated case is known as Mirna E. Serrano/Blanca Nelly Avalos, et al. v. Cintas Corporation, and remains pending in the United States District Court, Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division. No filings or determinations have been made in Serrano/Avalos as to class certification. There can be no assurance as to whether a class will be certified or, if a class is certified, as to the geographic or other scope of such class. The non service sales representative hiring claims in the previously disclosed Ramirez case that have not been dismissed remain pending in the Northern District of California, San Francisco Division, but were ordered to arbitration and stayed pending the completion of arbitration. The Ramirez purported class action claims currently in arbitration 23 include allegations that Cintas failed to promote Hispanics into supervisory positions, discriminated against African Americans and Hispanics in service sales representative route assignments and discriminated against African Americans in hourly pay in Cintas Rental division only throughout the United States. The Ramirez plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys fees and other remedies. No filings or determinations have been made in Ramirez as to class certification. There can be no assurance as to whether a class will be certified or, if a class is certified, as to the geographic or other scope of such class. On February 24, 2006, a motion to intervene in Serrano was filed by intervening plaintiffs Colleen Grindle, et al., on behalf of a subclass of female employees at Cintas Perrysburg, Ohio rental location who allegedly were denied hire, promotion or transfer to service sales representative positions. On March 24, 2006, plaintiffs Colleen Grindle, et. al. withdrew their motion to intervene without prejudice. On February 20, 2007, the plaintiffs Colleen Grindle, et. al. filed a separate lawsuit in the Court of Common Pleas, Wood County, Ohio, captioned Colleen Grindle, et al. v. Cintas Corporation (Grindle), on behalf of a class of female employees at Cintas Perrysburg, Ohio location who allegedly were denied hire, promotion or transfer to service sales representative positions on the basis of their gender. The Grindle plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys fees and other remedies. No filings or determinations have been made in Grindle as to class certification. There can be no assurance as to whether a class will be certified or, if a class is certified, as to the geographic or other scope of such class. In addition, a class action lawsuit, Larry Houston, et al. v. Cintas Corporation, was filed on August 3, 2005, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on behalf of African American managers alleging racial discrimination (Houston). On November 22, 2005, the court entered an order requiring the named plaintiffs in the Houston lawsuit to arbitrate all of their claims for monetary damages. If there is an adverse verdict or a negotiated settlement of all or any of these actions, the resulting liability and or any increased costs of operations on an ongoing basis could be material to Cintas. Any estimated liability relating to these proceedings is not determinable at this time. Other similar administrative proceedings are pending including two charges filed on November 30, 2004, by an EEOC Commissioner with the EEOC Systemic Litigation Unit alleging: (i) failure to hire and assign females to production job positions; and (ii) failure to hire females, African Americans and Hispanics into the Management Trainee program. The investigations of these allegations are pending and no determinations have been made. On August 29, 2006, the EEOC Indianapolis District Office issued a dismissal and notice of rights and closed its file on the Clifton Cooper charge served on Cintas on March 23, 2005, by Cooper on behalf of himself and a similarly situated class with the EEOC Systemic Litigation Unit alleging discriminatory pay and treatment due to race. Mr. Coopers claims are now part of the Houston arbitration matter disclosed hereinabove. Cintas is also a defendant in a lawsuit, J. Lester Alexander, III vs. Cintas Corporation, et al., which was originally filed on October 25, 2004, and is currently pending in the Circuit Court of Randolph County, Alabama. The case was brought by J. Lester Alexander, III, the Chapter 7 Trustee (the Trustee) of Terry Manufacturing Company, Inc. (TMC) and Terry Uniform Company, LLC (TUC), against Cintas in Randolph County, Alabama. The Trustee seeks damages against Cintas for allegedly breaching fiduciary duties to TMC and TUC and for allegedly aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duties by others to those entities. The complaint also includes allegations that Cintas breached certain limited liability company agreements, or alternatively, misrepresented its intention to perform its obligations in those agreements and acted as alter egos of the bankrupt TMC and is therefore liable for all of TMCs debts. The Trustee is seeking $50 million in compensatory damages and $100 million in punitive damages. Cintas denies these claims and is vigorously defending itself against all claims in the complaint. If there is an adverse verdict on the merits or in the event of a negotiated settlement of this lawsuit, the resulting liability could be material to Cintas. Any estimated liability relating to this lawsuit is not determinable at this time. The litigation discussed above, if decided adversely to or settled by Cintas, may, individually or in the aggregate, result in liability material to Cintas financial condition or results of operations. Cintas may enter into discussions regarding settlement of these and other lawsuits, and may enter into settlement agreements if it believes such settlement is in the best interests of Cintas shareholders. Cintas is subject to various environmental laws and regulations, as are other companies in the industry. While environmental compliance is not a material component of our costs, Cintas must incur capital expenditures and associated operating costs, primarily for water treatment and waste removal, on a regular basis. Environmental spending related to water treatment and waste removal was approximately $16 million in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006. Capital expenditures to limit or monitor hazardous substances were approximately $2 million in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006. These expenditures were primarily related to the purchase of water treatment systems, which are depreciated over a useful life of ten years. Cintas does not expect a material change in the cost of environmental compliance on a percent to revenue basis and is not aware of any material non compliance with environmental laws. 24 New Accounting Standards In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, which clarifies the accounting for income taxes by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. This Interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. Cintas will adopt this Interpretation on June 1, 2007, and is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of FIN 48 on its consolidated financial statements. Any necessary transition adjustments will not affect net income in the period of adoption and will be reported as a change in accounting principle in our consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of Cintas consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and judgments that have a significant effect on the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. These critical accounting policies should be read in conjunction with Note 1 entitled Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Significant changes, estimates or assumptions related to any of the following critical accounting policies could possibly have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition Rental revenue is recognized when services are performed and other services revenue is recognized when either services are performed or when products are shipped and the title and risks of ownership pass to the customer. Allowance for doubtful accounts Cintas establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts. This allowance is an estimate based on historical rates of collectibility. An uncollectible accounts provision is recorded for overdue amounts, beginning with a nominal percentage and increasing substantially as the account ages. The amount provided as the account ages will differ slightly between the Rentals and Other Services segments, because of differences in customers served and the nature of each segment. Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first in, first out) or market. Substantially all inventories represent finished goods. Cintas applies a commonly accepted practice of using inventory turns to apply variances between actual to standard costs to the inventory balances. The judgments and estimates used to calculate inventory turns will have an impact on the valuation of inventory at the lower of cost or market. Inventory obsolescence is determined by specific identification, as well as an estimate based on historical rates of obsolescence. Uniforms and other rental items in service Uniforms and other rental items in service are valued at cost less amortization, calculated using the straight line method. Uniforms in service (other than cleanroom and flame resistant garments) are amortized over their useful life of eighteen months. Other rental items including shop towels, mats, cleanroom garments, flame resistant garments, linens and restroom dispensers are amortized over their useful lives which range from eight to forty eight months. The amortization rates used are based on industry experience, Cintas experience and wear tests performed by Cintas. These factors are critical to determining the amount of in service inventory that is presented in the consolidated financial statements. Property and equipment Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which is typically thirty to forty years for buildings, five to twenty years for building improvements, three to ten years for equipment and two to five years for leasehold improvements. When events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long lived assets may not be recoverable, the estimated future cash flows (undiscounted) are 25 compared to the carrying amount of the assets. If the estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the assets, an impairment loss is recorded. The impairment loss is measured by comparing the fair value of the assets with their carrying amounts. Fair value is determined by discounted cash flows or appraised values, as appropriate. Long lived assets that are held for disposal are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or the fair value, less estimated costs related to disposition. Goodwill and impairment Goodwill, obtained through acquisitions of businesses, is valued at cost less any impairment. Cintas performs annual impairment tests by segment. These tests include comparisons to current market values, where available, and discounted cash flow analyses. Significant assumptions include growth rates based on historical trends and margin improvement leveraged from such growth. Based on the results of the impairment tests, Cintas has not recognized an impairment of goodwill for the years ended May 31, 2007, 2006 or 2005. Service contracts and other assets Service contracts and other assets, which consist primarily of noncompete and consulting agreements obtained through acquisitions of businesses, are amortized by use of the straight line method over the estimated lives of the agreements, which are generally five to ten years. Certain noncompete agreements, as well as all service contracts, require that a valuation be determined using a discounted cash flow model. The assumptions and judgments used in these models involve estimates of cash flows and discount rates, among other factors. Because of the assumptions used to value these intangible assets, actual results over time could vary from original estimates. Impairment of service contracts and other assets is through specific identification. No impairment has been recognized by Cintas for the years ended May 31, 2007, 2006 or 2005. Stock based compensation At May 31, 2007, Cintas had an equity compensation plan, which is more fully described in Note 11 entitled Stock Based Compensation of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior to June 1, 2006, Cintas accounted for this plan under the intrinsic value method proscribed by APB Opinion No. 25 (APB 25), Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations, as permitted by FASB Statement No. 123 (FAS 123), Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. Effective June 1, 2006, Cintas adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FASB Statement No. 123(R) (FAS 123(R)), Share Based Payment, using the modified retrospective transition method. Under that transition method, all prior periods have been restated based on the amounts previously calculated in the pro forma footnote disclosures required by FAS 123. FAS 123(R) requires all share based payments to employees, including stock options, to be recognized as an expense in the consolidated statement of income based on their fair values. Due to this restatement, Cintas income before income taxes and net income decreased by $3.8 million for the year ended May 31, 2006, and $8.0 million for the year ended May 31, 2005. This adoption lowered basic earnings per share from $1.95 per share to $1.93 per share for fiscal 2006 and from $1.75 per share to $1.70 per share for fiscal 2005. In addition, diluted earnings per share were lowered from $1.94 per share to $1.92 per share for fiscal 2006 and from $1.74 per share to $1.69 per share for fiscal 2005. The cumulative effect of the change on paid in capital and retained earnings as of June 1, 2005, was $21,241 and ($39,567), respectively. The cumulative effect of the change on deferred taxes as of June 1, 2005, was less than $1million. As a result of adopting FAS 123(R) on June 1, 2006, Cintas income before income taxes and net income for the year ended May 31, 2007, are $4.5 million and $3.1 million lower, respectively, than if Cintas had continued to account for share based compensation under APB 25. Basic and diluted earnings per share are both $.02 lower for the year ended May 31, 2007, than if Cintas had continued to account for share based compensation under APB 25. Litigation and environmental matters Cintas is subject to legal proceedings and claims related to environmental matters arising from the ordinary course of business. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that a liability for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that a liability has occurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required to determine the existence of a liability, as well as the amount to be recorded. Cintas regularly consults with attorneys to ensure that all of the relevant facts and circumstances are considered before a contingent liability is recorded. While a significant change in assumptions and judgments could have a material impact on the amounts recorded for contingent liabilities, Cintas does not believe that they will result in a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial statements. 26 A detailed discussion of litigation matters is discussed above in the section entitled Litigation and Other Contingencies. Income taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined by the differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. Please reference Note 7 entitled Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the types of items that give rise to significant deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Deferred income taxes are classified as assets or liabilities based on the classification of the related asset or liability for financial reporting purposes. Deferred income taxes that are not related to an asset or liability for financial reporting are classified according to the expected reversal date. Cintas regularly reviews deferred tax assets for recoverability based upon projected future taxable income and the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences. As a result of this review, Cintas has not established a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets. Cintas is periodically reviewed by domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These reviews include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various filing positions, Cintas records reserves as deemed appropriate. Based on Cintas evaluation of current tax positions, Cintas believes its accruals are appropriate. Outlook Our outlook is positive for fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2007, we reorganized our sales efforts to become more efficient and productive. Although this reorganization has taken longer and been more costly than anticipated, we expect to see revenue growth benefits in fiscal 2008 and continued benefit over the long term. We will continue searching out additional products and services to become an even more valuable resource for our customers. We believe that the high level of customer service provided by our partners and supported by our infrastructure, quality products, financial resources and corporate culture will provide for continued business success. As such, we see upside potential for all of our business units. Although difficult to predict, we anticipate continued growth in all of our business units. In the marketplace, competition and related pricing pressure will continue; however, we believe cost containment initiatives, technological advances and continued leverage of our infrastructure will soften or offset any impact. When appropriate opportunities arise, we will supplement our internal growth with strategic acquisitions. Like most other companies, we experienced, and anticipate continuing to experience, increased costs for wages and benefits, including medical benefits. Changes in energy costs and changes in federal and state tax laws also impact our results. Cintas continues to be the target of a corporate unionization campaign by Unite Here and the Teamsters unions. These unions are attempting to pressure Cintas into surrendering our employees rights to a government supervised election and unilaterally accept union representation. Cintas philosophy in regard to unions is straightforward: We believe that employees have the right to say yes to union representation and the freedom to say no. This campaign could be materially disruptive to our business and could materially adversely affect results of operations. We will continue to vigorously oppose this campaign and to defend our employees rights. 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk Cintas manages interest rate risk by using a combination of variable and fixed rate debt and investing in marketable securities. Earnings are affected by changes in short term interest rates due to the use of commercial paper of approximately $168 million, with an average interest rate of 5.28%. This exposure is limited by the investment in marketable securities, which act as a hedge against variability in short term rates. If short term rates change by one half percent (or 50 basis points), Cintas income before income taxes would change by approximately $2 million. This estimated exposure considers the mitigating effects of marketable securities on the change in the cost of variable rate debt. This analysis does not consider the effects of a change in economic activity or a change in Cintas capital structure. Through its foreign operations, Cintas is exposed to foreign currency risk. Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S. dollars. The primary foreign currency to which Cintas is exposed is the Canadian dollar. Cintas does not currently use forward exchange contracts to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from foreign currency exchange rate movements. 
 
