FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20050719163952.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
As previously disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 30, 2004, Genworth Financial, Inc. expects to grant restricted stock units to its executive officers, from time to time, under the 2004 Genworth Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan. The new form of restricted stock unit award agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
2004 Genworth Financial, Inc.
Omnibus Incentive Plan
Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement
 
Dear [RSU Grantee]:
 
Congratulations on your selection as a Participant in the 2004 Genworth Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the ""). This Award Agreement and the Plan together govern your rights under this Award and set forth all of the conditions and limitations affecting such rights. Unless the context otherwise requires, capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. If there is any inconsistency between the terms of this Award Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the Plan's terms shall supersede and replace the conflicting terms of this Award Agreement.
Plan
 
 
. [Grant Date].
a.
Grant Date
 
. [Number of RSUs].
b.
Number of RSUs
 
. The RSUs shall not provide you with any rights or interests therein until the restrictions lapse on such RSUs. [Restriction Lapse Dates].
c.
Restriction Lapse Dates
 
 
 
If your service with the Company and its Affiliates terminates as a result of your death, then restrictions on all RSUs shall immediately lapse.
a.
Employment Termination Due to Death
.
 
If your service with the Company and its Affiliates terminates as a result of employment by a successor employer to which the Company has transferred a business operation, then restrictions on all RSUs shall immediately lapse.
b.
Employment Termination Due to Transfer of Business to Successor Employer
.
. If, on or after the first anniversary of the grant date, your service with the Company and its Affiliates terminates as a result of any of the reasons set forth below, each as defined below or determined in accordance with rules adopted by the Committee, then restrictions on RSUs shall automatically lapse or the RSUs shall be cancelled as provided below:
c.
Employment Termination More Than One Year After Grant Date
 
 
 
Any RSUs for which the restrictions do not lapse in accordance with the terms in this paragraph 3 shall be cancelled.
 
 
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control in which the Successor Entity fails to Assume and Maintain this Award of RSUs, the restrictions on all such RSUs shall immediately lapse as of the effective date of the Change of Control; an amount determined below shall be distributed or paid to you within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of service in cash, Shares, other securities, or any combination, as determined by the Committee; and the RSUs shall thereafter terminate.
a.
 
If a Change of Control occurs and the Successor Entity Assumes and Maintains this Award of RSUs, and if your service with the Company and its Affiliates is terminated by the Company or one of its Affiliates without Cause (other than such termination resulting from your death or Disability) or by you for Good Reason within twelve (12) months following the effective date of the Change of Control, then the restrictions on all such RSUs shall immediately lapse as of the date of such termination of service; an amount determined below shall be distributed or paid to you within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of service in cash, Shares, other securities, or any combination, as determined by the Committee; and the RSUs shall thereafter terminate.
b.
 
The amount to be distributed or paid to you pursuant to this paragraph 4 shall equal the Fair Market Value of one Share for each such RSU as of (i) the effective date of the Change of Control in the case of subparagraph a. above or (ii) the date of such termination of service in the case of subparagraph b. above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A copy of the Plan will be furnished upon written or oral request made to the Human Resources Department, Genworth Financial, Inc., 6620 W. Broad Street, Richmond, VA 23230, or telephone (804) 281-6000.
a.
As required by applicable securities laws, the Company is delivering to you a prospectus in connection with this Award, which delivery is being made electronically. You can access the prospectus on the Company's intranet via the following web address: . The prospectus includes the Company's prospectus, filed on May 25, 2004, pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which can also be accessed at the foregoing web address. A paper copy of the prospectus may also be obtained without charge by contacting the Human Resources Department at the address or telephone number listed above.
b.
http://welcometo.genworth.net/PlanProspectus
 
You are hereby notified that in the future the Company will deliver to you electronically a copy of the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders for each fiscal year, as well as copies of all other reports, proxy statements and other communications distributed to the Company's stockholders. Each of the documents referenced in this subparagraph c. may be accessed by going to the Company's website at and clicking on "Investor Info" and then "SEC Filings" (or, if the Company changes its web site, by accessing such other web site address(es) containing investor information to which the Company may direct you in the future) and will be deemed delivered to you upon posting or filing by the Company. Upon written or oral request, paper copies of these documents (other than certain exhibits) may also be obtained by contacting the Company's Human Resources Department at the address or telephone number listed above or by contacting the Investor Relations Department, Genworth Financial, Inc., 6620 W. Broad Street, Richmond, VA 23230, or telephone (804) 281-6000.
c.
www.genworth.com
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally, by agreeing to participate, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Plan and this Award Agreement, and you fully understand all of your rights under the Plan and this Award Agreement, the Company's remedies if you violate the terms of this Award Agreement, and all of the terms and conditions which may limit your eligibility to retain and receive the Restricted Stock Units and/or Shares issued pursuant to the Plan and this Award Agreement.
 
Please refer any questions you may have regarding your Restricted Stock Unit grant to your local Human Resources Manager.
 


