FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20051025162315.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 25, 2005, Genworth Financial, Inc. issued (1) a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and (2) a financial supplement for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibits) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
 
Item 9.01(d). Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following materials are furnished as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Richmond, VA (October 25, 2005)  Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) reported net earnings for the third quarter of 2005 of $307 million, or $0.64 per diluted share as compared with net earnings for the third quarter of 2004 of $271 million, or $0.55 per diluted share. The current quarter included earnings of $24 million, or $0.05 per diluted share related to bond calls, mortgage loan prepayments and partnership earnings.
 
Net operating earnings for the third quarter of 2005 were $311 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, as compared with net operating earnings of $269 million or $0.55 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2004.
 
"Genworth's earnings and sales results in the quarter demonstrate the success of our growth initiatives and continued disciplined execution," said Michael D. Fraizer, chairman and chief executive officer. "We are growing our life insurance franchise at a strong pace, increasing assets under management in our retirement income business and building a significant international mortgage insurance revenue pipeline."
 
Third Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2005 Outlook
 
"We are increasing our outlook for 2005 operating earnings per share to $2.40 to $2.50," said Fraizer. "This outlook incorporates the positive investment items we saw this quarter along with anticipated seasonal increases in mortgage insurance delinquencies in the fourth quarter."
 
Segment Results
 
Segment net operating earnings presented below are equivalent to net earnings for all segments except Corporate and Other. For a reconciliation of the Corporate and Other segment net operating earnings to GAAP net earnings, see the disclosure at the end of this release.
 
 
 
Protection net operating earnings increased 7 percent to $145 million in the third quarter primarily from growth in the life insurance business. Life operating earnings reflected double-digit new business growth and sound in-force performance including mortality that was favorable to pricing. Long term care net operating earnings declined $2 million to $41 million mainly from lower experience gains on reinsured blocks. Payment protection operating earnings grew 10 percent from new business growth and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by additional expense for investments in new growth platforms.
 
Sales of term life increased 46 percent to $38 million over the prior year quarter from ongoing competitive pricing, expanded distribution reach and service initiatives. During the quarter, Genworth completed its fifth capital markets securitization, funding an additional $300 million of reserves. Total universal life sales increased 90 percent to $19 million reflecting a 15 percent growth in annual premiums and a three-fold increase in excess premiums. LTC sales were flat as compared with both the prior year and previous quarters as the market continued to transition. Payment protection sales increased 14 percent over third quarter of 2004 from increased penetration of existing customers and activation of new clients.
 
 
Retirement Income and Investments net operating earnings grew $19 million to $59 million for the third quarter of 2005 with growth across all product lines. Results included $10 million related to bond calls and mortgage loan prepayments. Spread-based retail net operating earnings increased $15 million as a result of 8 percent growth in assets under management, improved spreads and higher bond calls and mortgage loan prepayments versus the third quarter of 2004.
 
Net operating earnings for fee-based products increased 17 percent over the prior year quarter to $14 million from a 48 percent increase in assets under management. Spread-based institutional earnings grew to $6 million as a result of improved spreads.
 
Fee-based product sales increased 29 percent over the third quarter of 2004 to $673 million through broadened distribution and product offerings. Sales of income distribution series products increased considerably compared to the prior year quarter, up 41 percent to $99 million. Spread-based retail sales in the current quarter declined 33 percent associated primarily with a drop in fixed annuity sales as a flattening yield curve made alternative short-term investment products more attractive and the business maintained pricing discipline. Spread-based institutional product sales increased to $1.1 billion.
 
 
 
International mortgage insurance net operating earnings increased 36 percent over the third quarter of 2004 to $68 million from solid revenue growth partially offset by investment in new markets. In the quarter a $3 million after tax favorable loss reserve development and a $3 million after tax adjustment to paid claims reduced the reported loss ratio to 8 percent from an underlying loss ratio of 17 percent. Net operating earnings included $5 million of favorable FX. International NIW grew 59 percent over the prior year period to $21 billion from ongoing account penetration and favorable market conditions in Australia and Europe. NIW included $1.3 billion of foreign exchange benefit.
 
U.S. mortgage insurance net operating earnings increased to $58 million for the third quarter of 2005 and included $9 million of tax benefits and a $3 million favorable reserve adjustment in our prime bulk business. Total paid claims declined $3 million from the prior year quarter. On a sequential basis, delinquencies increased in line with seasonal patterns, but this impact was offset by a reduction in loss reserves from a mix shift in reported delinquencies. Expenses increased in the quarter primarily from higher contract underwriting volumes and $3 million after-tax from unusual items. Persistency dropped to 59 percent in the quarter from ongoing low interest rates and home price appreciation; consequently, we lowered our persistency estimate for the full year and accelerated DAC amortization of $4 million after-tax. U.S. NIW increased $1 billion from a 22 percent increase in flow NIW. This improvement marks progress in penetrating additional distribution channels and it includes approximately $800 million of sales for our recently introduced HomeOpeners
SM
products.
 
 
The Corporate and Other segment net operating loss was $19 million in the current quarter as compared with a net operating loss of $8 million in the third quarter of 2004. This decline was largely the result of higher public company expenses and taxes versus the prior year period. Partially offsetting these items was $10 million higher net earnings in the current period from bond calls, mortgage loan prepayments and partnership income.
 
Stockholders' interest as of September 30, 2005 was $13.3 billion, or $28.31 per share. Stockholders' interest, excluding accumulated non-owner changes, as of September 30, 2005 was $11.6 billion. Book value per share, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, increased to $24.67 as of September 30, 2005, compared with $24.10 as of June 30, 2005.
 
Conference Call Information
 
Genworth will conduct a conference call on October 26 from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. (EDT) to discuss third quarter results and business outlook.
 
The conference call will be accessible via telephone and the Internet. The earnings release and financial supplement are now posted on the company's website. Investors are encouraged to review all of these materials. The web cast will be available at www.genworth.com. To access the call by telephone, dial 1-800-599-9795 (U.S.) or 1-617-786-2905 (outside the U.S.), access code "Genworth". A replay of the call will be available from 1 p.m. EDT on October 26 through November 9, 2005 at 1-888-286-8010 or 1-617-801-6888 (outside the U.S.), access code 56584034. The call will also be replayed at the company's website during this same time period.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating earnings." The company defines net operating earnings as net earnings from continuing operations, excluding after-tax net realized investment gains and losses (which can fluctuate significantly from period to period), changes in accounting principles and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating earnings for the periods presented in this press release.
 
Management believes that analysis of net operating earnings enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. However, net operating earnings should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net earnings. In addition, the company's definition of net operating earnings may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The table at the end of this press release provides a reconciliation of net earnings to net operating earnings (as defined above) for the three months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004.
 
Due to the unpredictable nature of the items excluded from the company's definition of net operating earnings, the company is unable to reconcile its outlook for net operating earnings to net earnings from continuing operations presented in accordance with GAAP.
 
From time to time the company also references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating return on equity" or "operating ROE". The company defines operating ROE as net operating earnings divided by average stockholders' interest, excluding accumulated non-owner changes in average stockholders' interest (commonly referred to as accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI)). Management believes that analysis of operating ROE enhances understanding of the efficiency with which the company deploys its capital. However, operating ROE as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net earnings divided by average stockholders' interest. Due to the unpredictable nature of net operating earnings and average stockholders' interest excluding AOCI, the company is unable to reconcile its outlook for operating ROE to GAAP net earnings divided by average stockholders' interest.
 
All net realized investment gains (losses) are reflected in the Corporate and Other segment and are not reflected in the results of any of the company's other segments. As a result, the segment results contained in this press release are presented on a net operating earnings basis, which is the same as net earnings from continuing operations before accounting change under GAAP for all segments, except Corporate and Other segment. For a reconciliation of net operating earnings for Corporate and Other segment to net earnings presented in accordance with GAAP, see the
 
table at the end of this press release. The term "net operating loss" as used in this press release is also a non-GAAP financial measure and has an analogous meaning to "net operating earnings."
 
Definition of Sales
 
The term "sales" as used in this financial supplement means (1) all anticipated premiums and deposit receipts during the first twelve contract months from all contracts sold during the quarter for term life insurance, long-term care insurance, and group life and health insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, spread-based and variable products; (3) new deposits for managed assets; (4) written premiums gross of reinsurance and cancellations for payment protection insurance; and (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, written premiums and new insurance written to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period. This operating measure enables the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
company we would have insufficient funds to meet accelerated obligations under the tax matters agreement, GE's control over certain tax matters that could have an impact on us, potential conflicts of interest with GE and GE's engaging in the same type of business as we do in the future.
 
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
About Genworth Financial
 
Genworth is a leading insurance holding company, serving the lifestyle protection, retirement income, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, and has operations in 24 countries, including the U.S., Canada, Australia, the U.K. and more than a dozen other European countries. For more information, visit .
www.genworth.com
 
 
Contact Information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Dear Investor,
 
In conjunction with the release of Genworth's third quarter results for 2005, we have prepared this financial supplement to assist investors in understanding Genworth's financial results. This quarter we re-ordered the financial information, bringing the current period information to the front of the Supplement to make it easier to locate.
 
This supplement compares current period results to earnings and other financial information from the third quarter of 2004 including pro forma earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2004. The pro forma financial information that is presented reflects the effect of the company's corporate reorganization and the other transactions effected in connection with our initial public offering, completed in May, 2004.
 
Additional detail on the basis of financial information is provided on page 4 of this supplement.
 
Please feel free to call if you have any additional questions.
 
Regards,
 
Jean Peters
Senior Vice President
Investor Relations and Corporate Communications
804-662-2693
 
Alicia Charity
Vice President
Investor Relations
804-662-2248
 
 
Basis of Financial Information
 
As part of a corporate reorganization effected in connection with the company's IPO, the company acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of GE Financial Assurance Holdings, Inc. (GEFAHI), an indirect subsidiary of GE. The company also acquired certain other insurance businesses that were owned by other GE subsidiaries but managed by members of the company's management team. In consideration for the assets that the company acquired and the liabilities that the company assumed, the company issued various equity and debt securities to GEFAHI.
 
The company has prepared its financial information as if the company had been in existence throughout all relevant periods. The financial information through the date of the corporate reorganization (May 24, 2004) includes all businesses that were owned by GEFAHI, including those that were not transferred to the company, as well as the other insurance businesses that the company acquired from other GE subsidiaries in connection with the corporate reorganization. As a result, the company's financial information for periods prior to the corporate reorganization is not comparable to financial information for periods ending after that date.
 
Prior to the completion of the IPO, the company entered into several significant reinsurance transactions with Union Fidelity Life Insurance Company (UFLIC), an indirect subsidiary of GE. As part of these transactions, the company ceded to UFLIC, effective as of January 1, 2004, policy obligations under all of its in-force structured settlement contracts, which had reserves of $12.0 billion, and substantially all of its in-force variable annuity contracts, which had general account reserves of $2.8 billion and separate account reserves of $7.9 billion, each as of December 31, 2003. These contracts represent substantially all of the company's contracts that were in force as of December 31, 2003 for these products. In addition, effective as of January 1, 2004, the company ceded to UFLIC policy obligations under a block of long-term care insurance policies, which had reserves of $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2003. As part of the reinsurance transactions, UFLIC ceded to the company in-force blocks of Medicare supplement insurance, which had reserves of $19 million.
 
The unaudited pro forma financial information for the nine month period ended September 30, 2004 contained in this financial supplement reflects the company's financial information as adjusted to give effect to the transactions described below and certain other transactions as if each had occurred as of January 1, 2004. There were no pro forma adjustments for the three month period ended September 30, 2004. The following transactions are reflected in the unaudited pro forma financial information:
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma financial information is based upon available information and assumptions that the company believes are reasonable. The unaudited pro forma financial information is for illustrative and informational purposes only and is not intended to represent or be indicative of what the company's financial condition or results of operations would have been had the transactions described above occurred on the dates indicated, nor what they may be in the future.
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
This financial supplement includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating earnings." The company defines net operating earnings as net earnings from continuing operations, excluding after-tax net realized investment gains and losses (which can fluctuate significantly from period to period), changes in accounting principles and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating earnings for the periods presented in this financial supplement other than a $22 million IPO-related tax charge recorded during the second quarter of 2004, a $68 million IPO-related net tax benefit recorded during the fourth quarter of 2004 and a $25 million after-tax gain related to our waiver of contractual rights under an outsourcing services agreement with GE's global outsourcing provider, 60% of which was sold in the fourth quarter of 2004.
 
Management believes that analysis of net operating earnings enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. However, net operating earnings should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net earnings. In addition, the company's definition of net operating earnings may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The table on page 7 of this report provides a reconciliation of net earnings to net operating earnings (as defined above) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 and to pro forma net operating earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2004.
 
All net realized investment gains (losses) are reflected in the Corporate and Other Segment and are not reflected in the results of any of the company's other segments. As a result, the segment results contained in this financial supplement are presented on a net operating earnings basis, which is the same as net earnings from continuing operations before accounting change under GAAP for all segments, except for the Corporate and Other Segment. For a reconciliation of Corporate and Other segment net earnings to segment net operating earnings for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, and to pro forma segment net operating earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2004, presented in accordance with GAAP, see the tables on pages 10 & 45 in this report. The term "net operating loss" as used in this report is also a non-GAAP financial measure and has an analogous meaning to "net operating earnings."
 
Definition of Sales
 
The term "sales" as used in this financial supplement means (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life insurance, long-term care insurance and group life and health insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, spread-based and variable products; (3) new deposits for managed assets; (4) written premiums gross of reinsurance and cancellations for payment protection insurance; and (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, written premiums and new insurance written to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period. This operating measure enables the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
 
 
 
 
Stock Purchase Contracts Underlying Equity Units
 
For more information on our Equity Units, see note 14 (d) in our audited financial statements filed on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma earnings information for 2004 gives effect to the reinsurance transactions as if each had occurred as of January 1, 2004 and excludes the effects of all ceded reinsured contracts that were issued before January 1, 2004. The company has continued to sell variable annuities and structured settlements after completion of the reinsurance transactions and is retaining that business for its own account, subject to third party reinsurance in the ordinary course of business. The company's pro forma statement of earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 excludes the impact of the entire block of long-term care insurance policies that the company ceded to UFLIC as the company did not issue any new policies for this block in 2004, and the company will not issue any in the future.
 
Under the reinsurance transactions, the company receives an expense allowance to reimburse it for costs it incurs to service the reinsured blocks. Actual costs and expense allowance amounts will be determined by expense studies to be conducted periodically. The pro forma adjustments have been prepared assuming that actual costs incurred during the pro forma periods, as determined under the company's historical cost structure and allocation methods, were reimbursed by an expense allowance.
 
Concurrently with the reinsurance transactions, the company contributed $1.836 billion of capital to UFLIC, which primarily represented the excess statutory capital in the company's insurance subsidiaries after giving effect to the reinsurance transactions. As a significant portion of the assets transferred and contributed were not owned for the entire period, the pro forma adjustments to reduce net investment income and net realized investment gains were based upon a proportional allocation of investment income from the investment assets historically identified as (1) supporting the blocks of business reinsured for the reinsurance, and (2) representing surplus of subsidiaries providing assets that were contributed to UFLIC.
 
 
GENWORTH FINANCIAL
3Q 2005 FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENWORTH FINANCIAL
3Q 2005 FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENWORTH FINANCIAL
3Q 2005 FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENWORTH FINANCIAL
3Q 2005 FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Corporate and Other segment net loss to segment net operating loss and pro forma segment net operating loss
 
 
 
 
GENWORTH FINANCIAL
3Q 2005 FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENWORTH FINANCIAL
3Q 2005 FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT
 
 
 
Industry Ratings
 
Our principal life insurance subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
 
Our mortgage insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
 
The A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch ratings are not designed to be, and do not serve as, measures of protection or valuation offered to investors. These financial strength ratings should not be relied on with respect to making an investment in our securities.
 
A.M. Best states that its A+'' (Superior) rating is assigned to those companies that have, in its opinion, a superior ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The A+'' (Superior) rating is the second-highest of fifteen ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from A++'' to S''.
 
S&P states that an insurer rated "AA" (Very Strong) has very strong financial security characteristics that outweigh any vulnerabilities, and is highly likely to have the ability to meet financial commitments. The "AA" range is the second-highest of the four ratings ranges that meet these criteria, and also is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by S&P, which range from "AAA" to "R." A plus (+) or minus (-) shows relative standing in a rating category. Accordingly, the "AA" and "AA-" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of S&P's 20 ratings categories. The short-term "A-1" rating is the highest rating and shows the capacity to meet financial commitments is strong. Within this category, the designation of a plus sign (+) indicates capacity to meet its financial commitments is extremely strong.
 
 
Moody's states that insurance companies rated "Aa" (Excellent) offer excellent financial security. Moody's states that companies in this group constitute what are generally known as high-grade companies. The "Aa" range is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by Moody's, which range from "Aaa" to "C." Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. Accordingly, the "Aa2" and "Aa3" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Moody's 21 ratings categories. Short-term rating "P1" is the highest rating and shows superior ability for repayment of short-term debt obligations.
 
Fitch states that AA'' (Very Strong) rated insurance companies are viewed as possessing very strong capacity to meet policyholder and contract obligations. Risk factors are modest, and the impact of any adverse business and economic factors is expected to be very small. The AA'' rating category is the second-highest of eight financial strength rating categories, which range from AAA'' to D.'' The symbol (+) or (-) may be appended to a rating to indicate the relative position of a credit within a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the AAA'' category or to ratings below the CCC'' category. Accordingly, the AA'' and AA-'' ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Fitch's 22 ratings categories.
 
A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch review their ratings periodically and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current ratings in the future. Other agencies may also rate our company or our insurance subsidiaries on a solicited or an unsolicited basis.
 
About Genworth Financial
 
Genworth is a leading insurance holding company, serving the lifestyle protection, retirement income, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, and has operations in 24 countries, including the U.S., Canada, Australia, the U.K. and more than a dozen other European countries. For more information, visit www.genworth.com
 
Inquiries:
 
Genworth Financial, Inc.
Jean Peters, 804-662-2693
jean.peters@genworth.com
 
Alicia Charity, 804-662-2248
alicia.charity@genworth.com
 


