FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20050919172011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On September 19, 2005, Genworth Financial, Inc. (the "Registrant") completed a public offering of $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Registrant's 4.950% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "Notes"). The Notes are governed by an Indenture, dated as of June 15, 2004 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented by Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of June 15, 2004 ("Supplemental Indenture No. 1"), and Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of September 19, 2005 ("Supplemental Indenture No. 2"), each between the Registrant and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as trustee (as so supplemented, the "Indenture").
 
The Notes were issued pursuant to an underwriting agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement"), dated as of September 14, 2005, among the Registrant and Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Lehman Brothers Inc., as underwriters (the "Underwriters"). Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and subject to the terms and conditions expressed therein, the Registrant agreed to sell the Notes to the Underwriters, and the Underwriters agreed to purchase the Notes for resale to the public. The Registrant sold the Notes to the Underwriters at an issue price of 99.399% of the principal amount thereof, and the Underwriters offered the Notes to the public at a price of 99.849% of the principal amount thereof.
 
The net proceeds of the offering to the Registrant were $347,896,500. The Registrant intends to apply the net proceeds to reduce its outstanding commercial paper borrowings. The Notes are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Registrant and rank equally with all of the Registrant's existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. Interest on the Notes is payable semiannually in arrears in April and October of each year.
 
The Notes were offered and sold by the Registrant pursuant to its registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-125419).
 
The foregoing description of the Indenture and the Underwriting Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture No. 1, which are filed as Exhibits 4.7 and 4.8, respectively, to the Registrant's current report on Form 8-K, filed on June 7, 2004, and to the full text of Supplemental Indenture No. 2 and the Underwriting Agreement, which are filed as exhibits hereto, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The following are filed as exhibits to this report:
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 19, 2005
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
 
 
 
 
September 14, 2005
September 14, 2005
 
Lehman Brothers Inc.
745 Seventh Avenue
New York, NY 10019
 
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
85 Broad Street
New York, NY 10004
 
As Representatives of the several
Underwriters named in Schedule I hereto
 
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
 
Genworth Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein, to issue and to sell to the several Underwriters named in Schedule I hereto (the ""), with Lehman Brothers Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. as representatives of the several Underwriters (the ""), U.S. $350,000,000 Notes due 2015 (the ""). The Notes will be issued pursuant to the Indenture (the ""), dated as of June 15, 2004, between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as indenture trustee (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 15, 2004 (the "") and the Second Supplemental Indenture (the "") to be dated as of September 19, 2005 between the Company and the Trustee, (collectively, the ""). The Base Indenture, as so amended or supplemented, is herein referred to as the "."
Company
Underwriters
Representatives
Notes
Base Indenture
Trustee
First Supplemental Indenture
Second Supplemental Indenture
Supplemental Indentures
Indenture
 
The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement, including a prospectus, on Form S-3 (File No. 333-125419), relating to securities, including the Notes, to be issued from time to time by the Company. The registration statement as amended to the date of this Agreement is hereinafter referred to as the "" and the related prospectus covering the Notes in the form first used to confirm sales of the Notes is hereinafter referred to as the "." The Base Prospectus, as supplemented by the prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Notes in the form first used to confirm sales of the Notes is hereinafter referred to as the "," and the term "" means any preliminary form of the Prospectus. As used herein, the terms "Registration Statement," "Base Prospectus," "Prospectus" and "preliminary prospectus" shall include in each case the documents, if any, incorporated therein by reference. The terms "," "" or "" as used in this Agreement with
Commission
Registration Statement,
Base Prospectus
Prospectus
preliminary prospectus
supplement
amendment
amend
 
respect to the Registration Statement, Base Prospectus, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus shall include all documents subsequently filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), that are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Act
 
1. . The Company represents and warrants to and agrees with each of the Underwriters, as of the date hereof, that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
 
(a) The Registration Statement has become effective; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement is in effect, and no proceedings for such purpose are pending before or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened by the Commission.
 
(b) (i) Each document, if any, filed or to be filed pursuant to the Exchange Act and incorporated by reference in the Prospectus complied or will comply when so filed in all material respects with the Exchange Act and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, (ii) the Registration Statement, when it became effective, did not contain, and, as amended or supplemented, if applicable, will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (iii) the Registration Statement and the Prospectus comply and, as amended or supplemented, if applicable, will comply in all material respects with the Securities Act and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder and (iv) the Prospectus does not contain and, as amended or supplemented, if applicable, will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, except that the representations and warranties set forth in this paragraph do not apply to statements or omissions in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus based upon information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
 
(c) The Company has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, has the corporate power and authority to own its property and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement, and is duly qualified to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure to be so qualified or be in good standing would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
(d) Each subsidiary of the Company set forth on Schedule II hereto (each, a "" and, collectively, the "") has been duly incorporated or formed, is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or formation, has the full power and authority to own its property and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and is duly qualified to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure to be so qualified or be in good standing would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole; all of the issued shares of capital stock of each Designated Subsidiary owned directly or indirectly by the Company have been duly and validly authorized and issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned directly or indirectly by the Company, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities or claims, except as described in the Prospectus; for purposes of this Agreement, Schedule II hereto includes each subsidiary of the Company that is a "significant subsidiary" (as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X promulgated by the Commission).
Designated Subsidiary
Designated Subsidiaries
 
(e) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
 
(f) The authorized capital stock of the Company conforms as to legal matters to the description thereof contained in the Prospectus.
 
(g) (A) The execution and delivery by the Company of, and the performance by the Company of its obligations under, this Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes will not contravene (i) any provision of applicable law or the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company, (ii) any agreement or other instrument binding upon the Company or any of its subsidiaries (except to the extent such contravention would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole), or (iii) any judgment, order or decree of any governmental body, agency or court having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary, and (B) no consent, approval, authorization or order of, or qualification with, any U.S. federal, state or local governmental body or agency is required for the performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes, except such as has been obtained and as may be required by the securities or Blue Sky laws of the various states in connection with the offer and sale of the Notes.
 
(h) The Notes have been duly authorized by the Company, and, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the
 
Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters in accordance with this Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture, and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity). The Notes will conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Prospectus.
 
(i) The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and, when the Second Supplemental Indenture is executed and delivered by the Company (and assuming due authorization, execution and delivery of the Second Supplemental Indenture by the Trustee), the Indenture will constitute a valid and binding instrument of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity). The Indenture will conform in all material respects to the description thereof in the Prospectus.
 
(j) Neither the Company nor any of its Designated Subsidiaries is in violation of its certificate of incorporation, by-laws or other constituent documents; neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in default in the performance or observance of any material obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any agreement or other instrument binding upon the Company or any of its subsidiaries, except to the extent such default would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
(k) There has not occurred any material adverse change in the financial condition or in the earnings, business or operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, from that set forth in the Prospectus (exclusive of any amendments or supplements thereto subsequent to the date of this Agreement).
 
(l) There are no legal or governmental proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of the properties of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject that are required to be described in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus and are not so described therein or any statutes, regulations, contracts or other documents
 
that are required to be described in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or to be filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement that are not described or filed as required.
 
(m) Each preliminary prospectus filed as part of the registration statement as originally filed or as part of any amendment thereto, or filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act, complied when so filed in all material respects with the Securities Act and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
 
(n) The Company is not, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company" as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
(o) Except as described in the Prospectus, there are no contracts, agreements or understandings between the Company and any person granting such person the right to require the Company to file a registration statement under the Securities Act with respect to any securities of the Company or to require the Company to include such securities with the Notes registered pursuant to the Registration Statement.
 
(p) Subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, (i) the Company and its subsidiaries have not incurred any material liability or obligation, direct or contingent, or entered into any material transaction not in the ordinary course of business; (ii) the Company has not purchased any of its outstanding capital stock, or declared, paid or otherwise made any dividend or distribution of any kind on its capital stock other than ordinary and customary dividends; and (iii) there has not been any material change in the capital stock, short-term debt or long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries, except in each case as described or otherwise contemplated in the Prospectus.
 
(q) The Company and its Designated Subsidiaries have good and marketable title in fee simple to all real property and good and marketable title to all personal property owned by them, in each case free and clear of all liens, encumbrances and defects except such as are described in the Prospectus or would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole; and any real property and buildings held under lease by the Company and its subsidiaries are held by them under valid, subsisting and enforceable leases except such as are described in the Prospectus or would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
(r) The Company and its Designated Subsidiaries own or possess, or can acquire on reasonable terms, all material patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures), trademarks, service marks and trade names currently employed by them in connection with the business now operated by them, except where the failure to so own, possess or be able to acquire on reasonable terms would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any of the foregoing which, singly or in the aggregate, would have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
(s) No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists, except as described in the Prospectus, or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent, except where such dispute would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
(t) Each Designated Subsidiary of the Company that is engaged in the business of insurance or reinsurance (each an "", collectively the "") is licensed or authorized to conduct an insurance or reinsurance business, as the case may be, under the insurance statutes of each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business requires such licensing or authorization, except for such jurisdictions in which the failure of the Insurance Subsidiary to be so licensed or authorized would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. The Insurance Subsidiaries have made all required filings under applicable insurance statutes in each jurisdiction where such filings are required, except for such filings the failure of which to make would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. Each of the Insurance Subsidiaries has all other necessary authorizations, approvals, orders, consents, certificates, permits, registrations and qualifications (""), of and from all insurance regulatory authorities necessary to conduct their respective existing businesses as described in the Prospectus, except where the failure to have such Authorizations would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and no Insurance Subsidiary has received any notification from any insurance regulatory authority to the effect that any additional Authorizations are needed to be obtained by any Insurance Subsidiary in any case where it could reasonably be expected that the
Insurance Subsidiary
Insurance Subsidiaries
Authorizations
 
failure to obtain such additional Authorizations or the limiting of the writing of such business would have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and no insurance regulatory authority having jurisdiction over any Insurance Subsidiary has issued any order or decree impairing, restricting or prohibiting (i) the payment of dividends by any Insurance Subsidiary to its parent, other than those restrictions applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies under such jurisdiction generally or imposed in connection with the Reorganization and contemplated in the Prospectus, or (ii) the continuation of the business of the Company or any of the Insurance Subsidiaries in all material respects as presently conducted, in each case except where such orders or decrees would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
(u) Except as described in the Prospectus, (i) all ceded reinsurance and retrocessional treaties, contracts, agreements and arrangements ("") to which the Company or any Insurance Subsidiary is a party and as to which any of them reported recoverables, premiums due or other amounts in its most recent statutory financial statements are in full force and effect, except where the failure of such Reinsurance Contracts to be in full force and effect would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and (ii) neither the Company nor any Insurance Subsidiary has received any notice from any other party to any Reinsurance Contract that such other party intends not to perform such Reinsurance Contract in any material respect, and the Company has no knowledge that any of the other parties to such Reinsurance Contracts will be unable to perform its obligations thereunder in any material respect, except where (A) the Company or the Insurance Subsidiary has established reserves in its financial statements which it deems adequate for potential uncollectible reinsurance or (B) such nonperformance would not have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Reinsurance Contracts
 
(v) Except as described in the Prospectus, the Company has no knowledge of any threatened or pending downgrading of the Company's or any of its subsidiaries' claims-paying ability rating or financial strength rating by A.M. Best Company, Inc., Standard & Poor's Rating Group, Moody's Investor Service, Inc., Fitch Ratings, Ltd. or any other "nationally recognized statistical rating organizations," as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act, which currently has publicly released a rating of the claims-paying ability or financial strength of the Company or any subsidiary.
 
(w) The Company and each of its Designated Subsidiaries maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
 
(x) The statements set forth in (i) the Prospectus under the captions "Description of the Notes", insofar as they purport to constitute a summary of the terms of the Indenture and the Notes, and "Description of Capital Stock," "Description of Equity Units" and "Certain U.S. Federal Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. Holders," (ii) the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 under the captions "Item 1. Business  Regulation" and "Item 3. Legal Proceedings," (iii) the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005 under the captions "Item 1. Legal Proceedings," (iv) the Company's Proxy Statement for the Company's 2005 annual meeting of stockholders under the caption "Certain Relationships and Transactions" and (v) the Registration Statement in Item 15, insofar as they purport to describe the provisions of the laws and documents referred to therein, fairly summarize in all material respects the matters described therein.
 
(y) KPMG LLP, whose report is included in the Prospectus, is an independent certified public accountant with respect to the Company and its combined subsidiaries within the meaning of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission thereunder. The financial statements of the Company and its combined subsidiaries (including the related notes and supporting schedules) included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the entities purported to be shown thereby at the dates and for the periods indicated and have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods indicated and conform in all material respects with the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission under the Securities Act; and the supporting schedules included in the Registration Statement present fairly in all materials respects the information required to be stated therein. The pro forma financial information and the related notes thereto included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus has been prepared in accordance with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the assumptions underlying such pro forma financial information are reasonable.
 
2. The Company hereby agrees to sell to the several Underwriters, and each Underwriter, upon the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained, but subject to the conditions hereinafter stated, agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at a purchase price (the "") of 99.399% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from September 19, 2005 to the Closing Date (as hereinafter defined) in the respective principal amount of Notes set forth opposite the names of the Underwriters in Schedule I hereto.
Agreements to Sell and Purchase.
Purchase Price
 
3. . The Company is advised by the Representatives that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of their respective portions of the Notes as soon after this Agreement has become effective as in the Representatives' judgment is advisable. The Company is further advised by the Representatives that the Notes are to be offered to the public initially at a price (the "") equal to 99.849% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, and may be offered to certain dealers selected by the Representatives at a price that represents a concession not in excess of 0.27% of the principal amount of the Notes. Any such dealers may resell any Notes purchased from the Underwriters to certain other brokers or dealers at a discount not to exceed 0.135% of the principal amount of the Notes. After the initial public offering of the Notes to the public, the Underwriters may change the Public Offering Price and concessions.
Terms of Public Offering
Public Offering Price
 
4. The Company will deliver against payment of the Purchase Price the Notes in the form of permanent global securities (the "") deposited with the Trustee as custodian for The Depository Trust Company ("") and registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee for DTC. Interests in any permanent Global Securities will be held only in book-entry form through DTC, except in the limited circumstances described in the Prospectus. Payment for the Notes shall be made by the Underwriters in immediately available funds by wire transfer to an account specified by the Company drawn to the order of the Company at the office of Davis Polk & Wardwell, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY 10017, at 10:00 A.M. (New York time) on September 19, 2005, or at such other time not later than seven full business days as the Representatives and the Company determine, such time being referred to as the "," against delivery to the Trustee as custodian for DTC of the Global Securities representing all of the Notes. The Global Securities will be made available for checking at the above office of Davis Polk & Wardwell at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
Payment and Delivery.
Global Securities
DTC
Closing Date
 
5. . The several obligations of the Underwriters are subject to the following conditions:
Conditions to the Underwriters' Obligations
 
(a) Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
 
(i) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any of the Company's securities or the Company's financial strength or claims-paying ability by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act; and
 
(ii) there shall not have occurred any material adverse change in the financial condition or in the earnings, business or operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, from that set forth in the Prospectus (exclusive of any amendments or supplements thereto subsequent to the date of this Agreement).
 
(b) The Underwriters shall have received on the Closing Date a certificate, dated the Closing Date and signed by an executive officer of the Company, to the effect set forth in Section 5(a)(i) above and to the effect that the representations and warranties of the Company contained in this Agreement are true and correct as of the Closing Date and that the Company has complied with all of the agreements and satisfied all of the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder on or before the Closing Date.
 
The officer signing and delivering such certificate may rely upon the best of his or her knowledge as to proceedings threatened.
 
(c) The Underwriters shall have received on the Closing Date an opinion and letter of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, outside U.S. counsel for the Company, dated the Closing Date, as set forth in Exhibit A.
 
(d) The Underwriters shall have received on the Closing Date an opinion of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, L.L.P., special U.S. regulatory counsel for the Company, dated the Closing Date, as set forth in Exhibit B.
 
(e) The Underwriters shall have received on the Closing Date an opinion of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, L.L.P., special U.K. counsel for the Company, dated the Closing Date, as set forth in Exhibit C.
 
(f) The Underwriters shall have received on the Closing Date an opinion of Leon E. Roday, Esq., the Company's General Counsel, dated the Closing Date, as set forth in Exhibit D.
 
(g) The Underwriters shall have received on the Closing Date an opinion of Craig MacKenzie, Esq., the Company's in-house Australian counsel, dated the Closing Date, as set forth in Exhibit E.
 
(h) The Underwriters shall have received on the Closing Date an opinion of Winsor Macdonell, Esq., the Company's in-house Canadian counsel, dated the Closing Date, as set forth in Exhibit F.
 
(i) The Underwriters shall have received on the Closing Date an opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, counsel for the Underwriters, dated the Closing Date, with respect to such matters as the Underwriters shall request.
 
The opinions of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, L.L.P., Leon E. Roday, Esq., Craig MacKenzie, Esq. and Winsor Macdonell, Esq. described in Sections 5(c)- 5(i) above shall be rendered to the Underwriters at the request of the Company and shall so state therein.
 
(j) The Underwriters shall have received, on each of the date hereof and the Closing Date, a letter dated the date hereof or the Closing Date, as the case may be, in form and substance satisfactory to the Underwriters, from KPMG LLP, independent registered public accountants, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus; that the letter delivered on the Closing Date shall use a "cut-off date" not earlier than the date hereof.
provided
 
6. . In further consideration of the agreements of the Underwriters herein contained, the Company covenants with each Underwriter as follows:
Covenants of the Company
 
(a) To furnish to the Representatives, without charge, three signed copies of the Registration Statement (including exhibits thereto) and for delivery to each other Underwriter a conformed copy of the Registration Statement (without exhibits thereto) and to furnish to the Representatives in New York City, without charge, prior to 10:00 a.m. New York City time on the business day next succeeding the date of this Agreement or as promptly as practicable thereafter and during the period mentioned in Section 6(c) below, as many copies of the Prospectus and any supplements and amendments thereto or to the Registration Statement as the Representatives may reasonably request.
 
(b) Before amending or supplementing the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, to furnish to the Representatives a copy of each such proposed amendment or supplement and not to file any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representatives reasonably object, and to file with the Commission within the applicable period specified in Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act any prospectus required to be filed pursuant to such Rule.
 
(c) If, during such period after the first date of the public offering of the Notes, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is required by law to be delivered in connection with sales by an Underwriter or dealer, any event shall occur or condition exist as a result of which it is necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances when the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading, or if, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, it is necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus to comply with applicable law, forthwith to prepare, file with the Commission and furnish, at its own expense, to the Underwriters and to the dealers (whose names and addresses the Representatives will furnish to the Company) to which Notes may have been sold by the Representatives on behalf of the Underwriters and to any other dealers upon request, either amendments or supplements to the Prospectus so that the statements in the Prospectus as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances when the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, be misleading or so that the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, will comply with law.
 
(d) To endeavor to qualify the Notes for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives shall reasonably request.
 
(e) To make generally available to the Company's security holders and to the Representatives as soon as practicable an earning statement covering the twelve-month period ending September 30, 2006 that satisfies the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
 
7. Whether or not the transactions contemplated in this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, the Company agrees to pay or cause to be paid all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including: (i) the fees, disbursements and expenses of the Company's counsel and the Company's accountants in connection with the registration and delivery of the Notes under the Securities Act and all
Expenses.
 
other fees or expenses in connection with the preparation and filing of the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus and amendments and supplements to any of the foregoing, including all printing costs associated therewith, and the mailing and delivering of copies thereof to the Underwriters and dealers, in the quantities hereinabove specified, (ii) all costs and expenses related to the transfer and delivery of the Notes to the Underwriters, (iii) the cost of printing or the reasonable fees of counsel in producing any Blue Sky or Legal Investment memorandum in connection with the offer and sale of the Notes under state securities laws and all expenses in connection with the qualification of the Notes for offer and sale under state securities laws as provided in Section 6(d) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with such qualification and in connection with the Blue Sky or Legal Investment memorandum, (iv) the cost of printing certificates representing the Notes, (v) the costs and charges of any transfer agent, registrar or depositary, (vi) the costs and expenses of the Company relating to investor presentations on any "road show" undertaken in connection with the marketing of the offering of the Notes, including, without limitation, expenses associated with the production of road show slides and graphics, fees and expenses of any consultants engaged in connection with the road show presentations with the prior approval of the Company, travel and lodging expenses of the representatives and officers of the Company and any such consultants, and the cost of any aircraft chartered in connection with the road show with the prior approval of the Company and (vii) all other costs and expenses incident to the performance of the obligations of the Company hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. It is understood, however, that except as provided in this Section, Section 8 entitled "Indemnity and Contribution", and the last paragraph of Section 10 below, the Underwriters will pay all of their costs and expenses, including fees and disbursements of their counsel, transfer taxes payable on resale of any of the Notes by them and any advertising expenses connected with any offers they may make.
 
8. (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, and each affiliate of any Underwriter within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with defending or investigating any such action or claim) caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement or any amendment thereof, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (if used within the period set forth in paragraph (c) of Section 6 hereof and as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto), or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact
Indemnity and Contribution.
 
required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities are caused by any such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission based upon information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; , , that the foregoing indemnity agreement with respect to any preliminary prospectus shall not inure to the benefit of any Underwriter from whom the person asserting any such losses, claims, damages or liabilities purchased Notes, or any person controlling such Underwriter or any affiliate of such Underwriter within the meaning of Rule 405 of the Securities Act, if a copy of the Prospectus (as then amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendment or supplements thereto) was not sent or given by or on behalf of such Underwriter to such person, if required by law so to have been delivered, at or prior to the written confirmation of the sale of the Notes to such person, and if the Prospectus (as so amended or supplemented) would have cured the defect giving rise to such loss, claim, damage or liability, unless such failure is the result of noncompliance by the Company in furnishing copies of the Prospectus (or amendments or supplements thereto) pursuant to Section 6(a) hereof.
provided
however
 
(b) Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the directors and officers of the Company who sign the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with defending or investigating any such action or claim) caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement or any amendment thereof, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto), or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, but only with reference to information relating to such Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by you on behalf of such Underwriter expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto.
 
(c) In case any proceeding (including any governmental investigation) shall be instituted involving any person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to Section 8(a) or 8(b), such person (the "") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "") in writing and the indemnifying party, upon request of the indemnified party, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party and any others the indemnifying party may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the reasonable fees and
indemnified party
indemnifying party
 
disbursements of such counsel related to such proceeding. In any such proceeding, any indemnified party shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party unless (i) the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such counsel or (ii) the named parties to any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the indemnifying party and the indemnified party and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood that the indemnifying party shall not, in respect of the legal expenses of any indemnified party in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for (i) the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Underwriters and all persons, if any who control any Underwriter within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act or who are affiliates of any Underwriter within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act and (ii) the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for the Company, its directors, its officers who sign the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of either such Section. In the case of any such separate firm for the Underwriters and such control persons and affiliates of any Underwriters, such firm shall be designated in writing by the Representatives. In the case of any such separate firm for the Company and such directors, officers and control persons of the Company, such firm shall be designated in writing by the Company. The indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding.
 
(d) To the extent the indemnification provided for in Section 8(a) or 8(b) is unavailable to an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to under such paragraph, then each indemnifying party under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) if the indemnifying party is the Company, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the indemnifying party or parties on the one hand and the indemnified party or parties on the other hand from the offering of the Notes, (ii) if the indemnifying person is an Underwriter, in such proportion as is
 
appropriate to reflect the relative fault of such Underwriter on the one hand and the indemnified party or parties on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities or (iii) if the allocation provided by clause 8(d)(i) or 8(d)(ii) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause 8(d)(i) above or the relative fault referred to in clause 8(d)(ii) but also the relative fault (in cases covered by clause 8(d)(i)) or such relative benefits (in cases covered by clause 8(d)(ii)) of the indemnifying party or parties on the one hand and of the indemnified party or parties on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Notes shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth in the table on the cover of the Prospectus, bear to the aggregate Public Offering Price of the Notes. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 8 are several in proportion to the respective aggregate principal amount of Notes they have purchased hereunder, and not joint.
 
(e) The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just or equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8 were determined by allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in Section 8(d). The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages that such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent
pro rata
 
misrepresentation. The remedies provided for in this Section 8 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any indemnified party at law or in equity.
 
(f) The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 8 and the representations, warranties and other statements of the Company contained in this Agreement shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, any person controlling any Underwriter or any affiliate of any Underwriter by or on behalf of the Company, its officers or directors or any person controlling the Company and (iii) acceptance of and payment for any of the Notes.
 
9. . The Underwriters may terminate this Agreement by notice given by the Representatives to the Company, if after the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date (i) trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or materially limited, (ii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities in the State of New York or the United States shall have been declared by Federal or New York State authorities, or (iii) there shall have occurred any material outbreak, or material escalation, of hostilities or other national or international calamity or crisis, of such magnitude and severity in its effect on the financial markets of the United States, in the reasonable judgment of the Representatives, as to prevent or materially impair the marketing, or enforcement of contracts for sale, of the Notes.
Termination
 
10. . This Agreement shall become effective upon the execution and delivery hereof by the parties hereto.
Effectiveness; Defaulting Underwriters
 
If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it has or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase is not more than one-tenth of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated severally in the proportions that the principal amount of Notes set forth opposite their respective names in Schedule I bears to the aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as the Representatives may specify, to purchase the Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date; that in no event shall the principal amount of Notes that any Underwriter has agreed to purchase pursuant to this Agreement be increased pursuant to this Section 10 by an amount in excess of one-ninth of such principal amount of Notes without the written consent of such Underwriter. If, on the Closing Date, any Underwriter or Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes and the aggregate principal amount of Notes with respect to which such
provided
 
default occurs is more than one-tenth of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company. In any such case either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days, in order that the required changes, if any, in the Registration Statement and in the Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Any action taken under this paragraph shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
 
If this Agreement shall be terminated by the Underwriters, or any of them, because of any failure or refusal on the part of the Company to comply with the terms or to fulfill any of the conditions of this Agreement, or if for any reason the Company shall be unable to perform its obligations under this Agreement, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters or such Underwriters as have so terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves, severally, for all out-of-pocket expenses (including the fees and disbursements of their counsel) reasonably incurred by such Underwriters in connection with this Agreement or the offering contemplated hereunder.
 
11. . This Agreement may be signed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
12. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of New York.
Applicable Law
 
13. . The headings of the sections of this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed a part of this Agreement.
Headings
 
14. . The Company acknowledges that in connection with the offering of the Notes: (a) the Underwriters have acted at arms length, are not agents of, and owe no fiduciary duties to, the Company or any other person, (b) the Underwriters owe the Company only those duties and obligations set forth in this Agreement and (c) the Underwriters may have interests that differ from those of the Company. The Company waives to the full extent permitted by applicable law any claims it may have against the Underwriters arising from an alleged breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the offering of the Notes.
Nature of Underwriters' Obligations
 
15. . This Agreement, together with any contemporaneous written agreements and any prior written agreements (to the extent not superseded by this Agreement) that relate to the offering of the Notes,
Entire Agreement
 
represents the entire agreement between the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other, with respect to the preparation of the Prospectus, and the conduct of the offering, and the purchase and sale of the Notes.
 
16. . The Company and each of the Underwriters hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE I
 
 
 
SCHEDULE II
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A-1
 
 
1. The Company has been duly incorporated, is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has all requisite corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to carry on its business as described in the Prospectus.
 
2. Each of Genworth Financial International Holdings, Inc. and General Electric Capital Assurance Company (each, a "") is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation and has all requisite corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to carry on its business as now being conducted.
Subsidiary
 
3. All the outstanding shares of capital stock of each Subsidiary are owned of record by the Company or one of its subsidiaries. To our knowledge, such shares are also owned beneficially by the Company or one of its subsidiaries and are free and clear of all adverse claims, limitations on voting rights, options and other encumbrances.
 
4. The Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver the Underwriting Agreement and to perform its obligations thereunder. The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
 
5. The execution and delivery by the Company of the Underwriting Agreement, the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Notes and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder will not conflict with, constitute a default under or violate (i) any of the terms, conditions or provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or by-laws of the Company, (ii) any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any document, agreement or other instrument filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement, (iii) the laws of the State of New York, the corporate laws of the State of Delaware or federal law or regulation (other than federal and state securities or blue sky laws or insurance statutes or regulations, as to which we express no opinion in this paragraph), or (iv) any judgment, writ, injunction, decree, order or ruling of any court or governmental authority binding on the Company or any of its subsidiaries of which we are aware.
 
6. The Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture have been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. The Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture and the
 
Second Supplemental Indenture have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company, and assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee, the Indenture, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture is a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally, and subject, as to enforceability, to general principles of equity, including principles of commercial reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding at law or in equity).
 
7. The Notes have been duly authorized by the Company and, assuming due execution and authentication by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, are valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally, and subject, as to enforceability, to general principles of equity, including principles of commercial reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding at law or in equity), and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
 
8. No consent, approval, waiver, license or authorization or other action by or filing with any federal or state governmental authority is required in connection with the execution and delivery by the Company of the Underwriting Agreement, the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Notes and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby or the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder, except for those in connection with federal and state securities or blue sky laws or insurance statutes or regulations, as to which we express no opinion in this paragraph, and those already obtained or made.
 
9. The statements set forth in (A) the Prospectus under the captions "Description of the Notes," "Certain U.S. Federal Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. Holders," "Description of Capital Stock" and "Description of Equity Units," (B) the Proxy Statement for the Company's 2005 annual meeting of stockholders under the caption "Certain Relationships and Transactions" and "Executive Compensation  Approval of the 2004 Genworth Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan and (B) the Registration Statement in response to the requirements of Item 15 of Form S-3, insofar as such statements constitute summaries of the legal matters, documents or proceedings referred to therein, fairly present the information required with respect to such legal matters, documents and proceedings and fairly summarize the matters referred to therein in all material respects.
 
10. To our knowledge, there are no legal or governmental proceedings pending or overtly threatened to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of the properties of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject that are required to be described in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus and are not so described or any contracts or other documents that are required to be described in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or to be filed or incorporated by reference as exhibits to the Registration Statement that are not described, filed or incorporated as required.
 
11. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act, and we are not aware of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement.
 
EXHIBIT A-2
 
 
The primary purpose of our professional engagement was not to establish or confirm factual matters or financial or quantitative information, and many determinations involved in the preparation of the Registration Statement and Prospectus are of a non-legal character. In addition, we have not undertaken any obligation to verify independently any of the factual matters set forth in the Registration Statement and Prospectus. Consequently, in this letter we are not passing upon and do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement and Prospectus. Also, we do not make any statement herein with respect to any of the financial statements and related notes thereto, the financial statement schedules or the financial, statistical or accounting data contained in the Registration Statement and Prospectus.
 
We have reviewed the Registration Statement and Prospectus and we have participated in conferences with representatives of the Company, its independent public accountants, its special insurance regulatory counsel, its local counsel, you and your counsel, and the Seller, at which conferences the contents of the Registration Statement and Prospectus and related matters were discussed.
 
Subject to the foregoing, we confirm to you that, on the basis of the information we gained in the course of performing the services referred to above, no facts have come to our attention which cause us to believe that (i) the Registration Statement or the Prospectus do not comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) the Registration Statement, on the effective date thereof, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements contained therein not misleading or (iii) the Prospectus, as of its date or as of the date hereof, contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
1. Each subsidiary listed in Schedule A hereto (the "") has the necessary permits, licenses and authorizations under the insurance laws and regulations of the jurisdiction set forth opposite such Insurance Subsidiary's name on Schedule A hereto to conduct the lines of insurance business set forth opposite such Insurance Subsidiary's name on Schedule A hereto, except where the failure to have such permits, licenses or authorizations would not reasonably be expected to, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Insurance Subsidiary
 
2. The Company is not, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Notes and the application of the net proceeds from such sale as described in the Prospectus under the caption "Use of Proceeds" will not be, required to register as an "investment company," as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940.
 
3. The statements set forth in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 under the caption "Item 1. Business  Regulation," the Proxy Statement under the caption "Certain Relationships and TransactionsReinsurance Transactions," and the Prospectus under the caption "Risk FactorsRisks Relating to Our Mortgage Insurance Segment," insofar as such statements purport to describe provisions of documents referred to therein, the Federal laws of the United States of America, the laws of the State of New York or the insurance laws and regulations of the Connecticut, Delaware, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia and Wisconsin, fairly summarize such provisions or such laws in all material respects.
 
SCHEDULE A TO EXHIBIT B
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT C
 
 
1. GE Mortgage Insurance Limited (the "") is a company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of England and Wales, has been in continuous existence since 26th June 1991, and is not in liquidation and has the corporate power, and necessary UK Financial Services Authority ("FSA") authorization to effect and carry out contracts of insurance in the United Kingdom in classes 14, 15 and 16 (credit, miscellaneous financial loss and suretyship).
UK Insurance Subsidiary
 
2. The statements set forth in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 under the caption "Item 1. Business  RegulationU.K. Insurance Regulation" and under the sub heading "United Kingdom and Continental Europe," insofar as such statements purport to describe provisions of documents governed by the laws of England and Wales referred to therein or the laws of England and Wales, fairly summarize such provisions or laws, in all material respects.
 
EXHIBIT D
 
 
1. The Company is duly qualified to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure to be so qualified or be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
2. Each Designated Subsidiary of the Company has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has the full power and authority to own its property and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and is duly qualified to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure to be so qualified or be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
3. All of the issued shares of capital stock of each Designated Subsidiary of the Company have been duly and validly authorized and issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned directly or indirectly by the Company, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities or claims.
 
4. The execution and delivery by the Company of, and the performance by the Company of its obligations under, the Underwriting Agreement, the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Notes will not contravene any provision of applicable law or the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company or, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any document, agreement or other instrument filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement, or, to the best of my knowledge, any judgment, order or decree of any governmental body, agency or court having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary, and no consent, approval, authorization or order of, or qualification with, any governmental body or agency is required for the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture (as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture) and the Notes, except such as may be required by the securities or Blue Sky laws of the various states in connection with the offer and sale of the Notes.
 
5. The Company and each Designated Subsidiary of the Company that is engaged in the business of insurance or reinsurance (each an ", collectively the ") are duly licensed to conduct an insurance or reinsurance business, as the case may be, under the insurance statutes of each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business
Insurance Subsidiary"
Insurance Subsidiaries"
 
requires such licensing, except for such jurisdictions in which the failure of the Company or the Insurance Subsidiaries to be so licensed would not have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
6. The statements set forth in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and in the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005 under the captions "Legal Proceedings" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewOur corporate reorganization", in each case insofar as such statements constitute summaries of the legal matters, documents or proceedings referred to therein, as of the date such reports were filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and as of the date hereof (with respect to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2005), fairly presented or present the information called for with respect to such legal matters, documents and proceedings and fairly summarized or summarize the matters referred to therein in all material respects.
 
EXHIBIT E
 
 
1. GE Mortgage Insurance Company Pty Limited ("") and each of its related companies  GE Mortgage Insurance Holdings Pty Limited, GE Mortgage Insurance Finance Holdings Pty Limited and GE Mortgage Insurance Finance Pty Limited (collectively, the "") have been duly incorporated, are validly existing as corporations in good standing under the laws of the State of Victoria, Australia, have the corporate power, necessary permits, licenses, approvals and authority to own their own property and (in the case of GEMICO) to conduct its business as carried on as of the date hereof.
GEMICO
Genworth Australia Entities
 
2. All of the issued shares of capital stock of each of the Genworth Australia Entities have been duly and validly authorized and issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned directly or indirectly by the Company, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities or claims.
 
3. The statements set forth in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 under the caption "Item 1. Business  Regulation  Mortgage Insurance  International regulation  Australia" insofar as such statements purport to describe Australian legal matters, documents or proceedings referred to therein, fairly summarize such legal matters, documents and proceedings in all material respects.
 
EXHIBIT F
 
 
1. Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Company Canada ("") has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of Canada and has the corporate power, necessary permits, licenses, approvals and authority to own its own property and to conduct its business as carried on as of the date hereof.
GFMICC
 
2. All of the issued shares of capital stock of GFMICC have been duly and validly authorized and issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned directly or indirectly by the Company, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities or claims.
 
3. The statements set forth in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 under the captions "Item 1. Business  Regulations  Mortgage Insurance  International regulation  Canada" and "Item 1. Business  International mortgage insurance  Canada" insofar as such statements purport to describe Canadian legal matters, documents or proceedings referred to therein, fairly summarize such legal matters, documents and proceedings in all material respects.
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE No. 2 (this ""), dated as of September 19, 2005, is between GENWORTH FINANCIAL, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. (formerly known as JPMorgan Chase Bank), a national banking association, as Trustee (the "").
Supplemental Indenture No. 2
Company
Trustee
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an Indenture dated as of June 152004, between the Company and the Trustee (the "" and together with this Supplemental Indenture No. 2, the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of series of the Company's Securities;
,
Base
Indenture
Indenture
 
WHEREAS, Section 10.01(d) of the Base Indenture provides for the Company and the Trustee to enter into an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture to establish the forms or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Section 2.01 or Section 2.02 of the Base Indenture;
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Base Indenture, the Company wishes to provide for the issuance of a new series of Securities to be known as its 4.950% Senior Notes due 2015 (the ""), the form and terms of such Notes and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in this Supplemental Indenture No. 2; and
Notes
 
WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture No. 2 and all requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture No. 2 a valid, binding and enforceable instrument in accordance with its terms, and to make the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid, binding and enforceable obligations of the Company, have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture No. 2 has been duly authorized in all respects;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
 
This Supplemental Indenture No. 2 constitutes an integral part of the Base Indenture.
Section 1.01
. Relation to Base Indenture.
 
For all purposes of this Supplemental Indenture No. 2:
Section 1.02
. Definition Of Terms.
 
Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings set forth in the Base Indenture;
(a)
 
a term defined anywhere in this Supplemental Indenture No. 2 has the same meaning throughout;
(b)
 
the singular includes the plural and vice versa;
(c)
 
headings are for convenience of reference only and do not affect interpretation;
(d)
 
the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.02(e):
(e)
 
"" shall mean, unless otherwise specified, any calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
Business Day
 
"" shall mean the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("") of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than three such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations or, if only one such Quotation is obtained, such Quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.04.
Global Note
 
"" shall mean an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company, which may be one of the Reference Treasury Dealers.
Independent Investment Banker
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.05(b).
Interest Payment Date
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.02.
Maturity Date
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Interest Payment Date for the Notes, the fifteenth day, whether or not a Business Day, of the calendar month preceding the calendar month in which such Interest Payment Date falls.
Record Date
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any redemption of Notes, the date fixed for such redemption pursuant to the Indenture and such Notes.
Redemption Date
 
"" shall mean (i) each of Lehman Brothers Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. and their respective successors, , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided, however
Primary Treasury Dealer
 
"" shall mean, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15 (519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month), (ii) if the period from the Redemption Date to the Maturity Date of the Notes to be redeemed is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year will be used, or (iii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated by the Company on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date. The Trustee shall not be responsible for any such calculation.
Treasury Rate
 
The terms "," "," "," "," and "" shall have the respective meanings set forth in the recitals to this Supplemental Indenture No. 2 and the paragraph preceding such recitals.
Company
Trustee
Indenture
Base Indenture
Notes
 
 
. . The Notes may be issued from time to time upon written order of the Company for the authentication and delivery of Notes pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Base Indenture. There is hereby authorized a series of Securities designated as the 4.950% Senior Notes due 2015, limited in aggregate principal amount to U.S. $350,000,000 (except for Notes authenticated and delivered in accordance with the last paragraph of Section 2.02 of the Base Indenture or upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Notes pursuant to Sections 2.06, 2.07, 2.08, 3.03 or 10.04 of the Base Indenture).
Section 2.01
Designation and Principal Amount
 
The date upon which the Notes shall become due and payable at final maturity, together with any accrued and unpaid interest, is October 1, 2015 (the "").
Section 2.02
. Maturity.
Maturity Date
 
Except as provided in Section 2.04, the Notes shall be issued in fully registered, certificated form. Principal of and interest on the Notes will be payable, the transfer of such Notes will be registrable, and such Notes will be exchangeable for Notes of a like aggregate principal amount, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, which shall initially be the Principal Office of the Trustee; , that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the Person entitled thereto at such address as shall appear in the Security register or by wire transfer to an account appropriately designated by the Person entitled to payment; , that the paying agent shall have received written notice of such account designation at least five Business Days prior to the date of such payment (subject to surrender of the relevant Note in the case of a payment of interest on a Redemption Date or the Maturity Date).
Section 2.03
. Form, Payment and Appointment.
provided, however
provided
 
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of the Notes, but the Company may require payment from the holder of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith.
 
The Security registrar and paying agent for the Notes shall initially be the Trustee.
 
The Notes shall be issuable in denominations of U.S. $1,000 and integral multiples of U.S. $1,000 in excess thereof.
 
The Specified Currency of the Notes shall be U.S. Dollars.
 
The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of a permanent Global Security in registered form (a ""), deposited with The Depository Trust Company or such other Depositary as any officer of the Company may from time to time designate. Unless and until such Global Note is exchanged for Notes in certificated form, such Global Note may be transferred, in whole but not in part, and any payments on the Notes shall be made, only to the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary, or to a successor Depositary selected or approved by the Company or to a nominee of such successor Depositary.
Section 2.04
. Global Notes.
Global Note
 
Interest payable on any Interest Payment Date, the Maturity Date or, if applicable, the Redemption Date, with respect to the Notes shall be the amount of interest accrued from, and including, the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date in respect of which interest has been paid or duly provided for (or from and including the original issue date of September 19, 2005, if no interest has been paid or duly provided for with respect to the Notes) to, but excluding, such Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date or, if applicable, Redemption Date, as the case may be (each, an "").
Section 2.05
. Interest.
(a)
Interest Period
 
The Notes will bear interest at the rate of 4.950% per year from the original issue date thereof through and including the Maturity Date. Interest on the Notes shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year (each, an ""), commencing April 1, 2006, to the Persons in whose names the relevant Notes are registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.05(d).
(b)
Interest Payment Date
 
The amount of interest payable for any full semi-annual Interest Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of interest payable for any period shorter than a full semi-annual Interest Period for which interest is computed will be computed on the basis of a 30-day month and, for any period less than a month, on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed per 30-day month. In the event that any scheduled Interest Payment Date for the Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, then payment of interest payable on such Interest Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding day which is a Business Day (and no interest on such payment will accrue for the period from and after such scheduled Interest Payment Date).
(c)
 
In the event that the Maturity Date or a Redemption Date for any Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, then the related payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest may be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and no additional interest will accumulate on the amount payable for the period from and after the Maturity Date). Interest due on the Maturity Date or a Redemption Date (in each case, whether or not an Interest Payment Date) of any Notes will be paid to the Person to whom principal of such Notes is payable.
(d)
 
The Notes are not entitled to the benefit of any sinking fund.
Section 2.06
. No Sinking Fund.
 
 
Except as otherwise may be specified in this Supplemental Indenture No. 2, the Company shall have the right to redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price (the "") equal to the greater of:
Section 3.01
. Optional Redemption by Company.
Optional Redemption Price
 
100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date; and
(i)
 
the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 15.0 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
(ii)
 
The Company will mail notice of such redemption to the registered holders of the Notes to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date. If Notes are only partially redeemed pursuant to this Section 3.01, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Trustee in such manner as in its sole discretion it shall deem appropriate and fair; , that if at the time of redemption the Notes to be redeemed are registered as a Global Note, the Depositary shall determine, in accordance with its procedures, the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed held by each of its participants that holds a position in such Notes. The Optional Redemption Price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Redemption Date or at such later time as is
provided
 
then permitted by the rules of the Depositary for the Notes (if then registered as a Global Note); that the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount sufficient to pay the Optional Redemption Price by 10:00 a.m., New York time, on the date such Optional Redemption Price is to be paid.
provided,
 
. . Except as set forth in Section 3.01, the Notes shall not be redeemable by the Company prior to the Maturity Date. The provisions of this Article 3 shall supersede any conflicting provisions contained in Article 3 of the Base Indenture.
Section 3.02
No Other Redemption
 
 
. Form of Notes.
Section 4.01
 
The Notes and the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication to be endorsed thereon are to be substantially in the forms attached as Exhibit A hereto, with such changes therein as the officers of the Company executing the Notes (by manual or facsimile signature) may approve, such approval to be conclusively evidenced by their execution thereof.
 
 
Notes having an aggregate principal amount of U.S. $350,000,000 (subject to the last paragraph of Section 2.02 of the Base Indenture) may from time to time, upon execution of this Supplemental Indenture No. 2, be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver said Notes to or upon the written order of the Company pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Base Indenture without any further action by the Company (other than as required by the Base Indenture).
Section 5.01
. Original Issue of Notes.
 
 
As set forth in Section 10.02 of the Base Indenture, with the consent of the holders of a majority in the aggregate principal amount of Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture at the time outstanding, the Company and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental to the Base Indenture for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Base Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture No. 2 or of modifying in any manner the rights of the holders of the Securities.
Section 6.01
. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of holders of Notes.
 
 
The Base Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture No. 2, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture No. 2 shall be deemed part of the Base Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
Section 7.01
. Ratification of Indenture.
 
The recitals herein contained are made by the Company and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture No. 2.
Section 7.02
. Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals.
 
THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 2 AND EACH NOTE SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT MADE UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF SAID STATE.
Section 7.03
. New York Law To Govern.
 
In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture No. 2 or in the Notes shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, then, to the extent permitted by law, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Supplemental Indenture No. 2 or of the Notes, but this Supplemental Indenture No. 2 and the Notes shall be construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein or therein.
Section 7.04
. Separability.
 
This Supplemental Indenture No. 2 may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 7.05
. Counterparts.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture No. 2 to be duly executed, as of the day and year first written above.
 
EXHIBIT A
 
[IF THIS NOTE IS TO BE A GLOBAL SECURITY, INSERT:]
 
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY. THIS NOTE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY.
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
 
 
CUSIP: 37247D AF 3
 
 
GENWORTH FINANCIAL, INC., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (hereinafter called the "", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to),
Company
 
for value received, hereby promises to pay to , or registered assigns, [the principal sum of $ ]
                    
                    
1
on October 1, 2015 (such date is hereinafter referred to as the ""), and to pay interest thereon from September 19, 2005 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year (each, an ""), commencing April 1, 2006 at the rate of 4.950% per annum, on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for or made available for payment. The amount of interest payable for any period shorter than a full semi-annual Interest Period for which interest is computed will be computed on the basis of a 30-day month and, for any period less than a month, on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed per 30-day month. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the person in whose name the relevant Notes, or any predecessor Notes, are registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Interest Payment Date; that the interest due on the Maturity Date or a Redemption Date (in each case, whether or not an Interest Payment Date) of a Note of this series will be paid to the Person to whom principal of such Note is payable.
Maturity Date
Interest Payment Date
provided
 
Payment of the principal of and interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York, which shall initially be the Principal Office of the Trust Office of the Trustee, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the Person entitled thereto at such address as shall appear in the Security register or by wire transfer to an account appropriately designated by the Person entitled to payment, that the paying agent shall have received written notice of such account designation at least five Business Days prior to the date of such payment (subject to surrender of the relevant Note in the case of a payment of interest on a Redemption Date or on the Maturity Date).
provided, however
provided
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
Dated:
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein described in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Dated:
                    
 
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.,
as Trustee
 
 
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture (the ""), dated as of June 15, 2004, between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly known as JPMorgan Chase Bank), as Trustee (herein called the "", which term includes any successor trustee), as amended and supplemented by Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of September 19, 2005, between the Company and the Trustee (the "" and together with the Base Indenture, the ""), to which Indenture reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $350,000,000.
Notes
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture No. 2
Indenture
 
All terms used in this Note that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
The Company shall have the right to redeem this Note at the option of the Company, without premium or penalty, in whole or in part (an ""), at a redemption price (the "") equal to the greater of:
Optional Redemption
Optional Redemption Price
 
(i) 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date; and
 
(ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 15.0 basis points plus accrued interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the Redemption Date.
 
The Company will mail notice of such redemption to the registered holders of the Notes of this series to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date. If Notes of this series are only partially redeemed pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the Notes of this series to be redeemed will be selected by the Trustee in such manner as in its sole discretion it shall deem appropriate and fair; , that if at the time of redemption the Notes of this series to be redeemed are registered as a Global Note, the Depositary shall determine, in accordance with its procedures, the principal amount of the Notes of this series to be redeemed held by each of its participants that holds a
provided
 
position in such Notes. The Optional Redemption Price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Redemption Date or at such later time as is then permitted by the rules of the Depositary for the related Notes (if then registered as a Global Note) provided that the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount sufficient to pay the Optional Redemption Price by 10:00 a.m., New York time, on the date such Optional Redemption Price is to be paid.
 
In the event of redemption of this Note in part only, a new Note or Notes of this series for the unredeemed portion hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof. Except as set forth in the preceding paragraphs and in Article 3 of the Supplemental Indenture No. 2, the Company may not redeem the Notes of this series at its option prior to the Maturity Date.
 
The Notes of this series are not entitled to the benefit of any sinking fund.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance of the obligations of the Company at any time upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to the Notes of this series.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the holders of the Notes at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes of each series (each series voting as a class) affected thereby and at the time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Notes of a series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the holders of all Notes of such series, to waive certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security registrar duly executed by the holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or
 
more new Notes of this series, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
The Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, except as provided for in Section 2.04 of Supplemental Indenture No. 2. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
The Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
THIS NOTE SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT MADE UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF SAID STATE.
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers this Note to:
 
 
 
(Insert assignee's social security or tax identification number)
 
 
 
 
(Insert address and zip code of assignee)
 
and irrevocably appoints
 
 
 
 
agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her.
 
Date:
                    
 
 
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Note)
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Security registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Security registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
STAMP
 
The initial principal amount of this Note is $350,000,000. The following increases or decreases in the principal amount of this Note have been made:
 


