FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20051014083148.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 14, 2005, Genworth Financial, Inc. issued a press release announcing its consolidated earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibit) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
 
Item 9.01(d). Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following material is furnished as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Richmond, VA (October 14, 2005)  Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) today reported net earnings for the third quarter of 2005 of $307 million, or $0.64 per diluted share. Net earnings for the third quarter of 2004 were $271 million, or $0.55 per diluted share.
 
Net operating earnings for the third quarter of 2005 were $311 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, compared to net operating earnings of $269 million or $0.55 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2004.
 
Earnings for the third quarter of 2005 included $24 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, of investment income related to bond calls, prepayments and partnership income.
 
Management believes that the presentation of net operating earnings enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. However, net operating earnings should not be viewed as a substitute for net earnings prepared under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
Detailed Earnings Release and Conference Call Information
 
Genworth will issue a detailed earnings release and third quarter financial supplement after the market closes on October 25, 2005 and will conduct a conference call on October 26 from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. (EDT).
 
The conference call will be accessible via telephone and the Internet. The earnings release and financial supplement will be posted on the company's website when released. Investors are encouraged to review all of these materials. The web cast will be available at www.genworth.com. To access the call by telephone, dial 1-800-599-9795 (U.S.) or 1-617-786-2905 (outside the U.S.), access code "Genworth". A replay of the call will be available from 1 p.m. EDT on October 26 through November 9, 2005 at 1-888-286-8010 or 1-617-801-6888 (outside the U.S.), access code 56584034. The call will also be replayed at the company's website during this same time period.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating earnings." The company defines net operating earnings as net earnings from continuing operations, excluding after-tax net realized investment gains and losses (which can fluctuate significantly from period to period), changes in accounting principles and non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items. There were no non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items excluded from net operating earnings for the periods presented in this press release.
 
Management believes that analysis of net operating earnings enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. However, net operating earnings should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net earnings. In addition, the company's definition of net operating earnings may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The table at the end of this press release provides a reconciliation of net earnings to net operating earnings (as defined above) for the three months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004.
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
About Genworth Financial
 
Genworth is a leading insurance holding company, serving the lifestyle protection, retirement income, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, and has operations in 24 countries, including the U.S., Canada, Australia, the U.K. and more than a dozen other European countries. For more information, visit .
www.genworth.com
 
 
:
Contact Information
 
 
 


