FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20061026165858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 26, 2006, Genworth Financial, Inc. issued (1) a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and (2) a financial supplement for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibits) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
 
The following materials are furnished as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Richmond, VA (October 26, 2006)  Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) today reported net income of $304 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, for third quarter compared with $307 million, or $0.64 per diluted share, in the prior year. Net operating income
1
for the third quarter was $307 million, or $0.66 per diluted share, compared with $311 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, in the prior year.
Net operating income for the third quarter of 2006 included $8 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, related to bond calls, commercial mortgage loan prepayments and limited partnership earnings compared with $24 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, in the prior year.
Genworth also announced that its Board of Directors increased the company's share repurchase authority by $250 million, for a program total of $1.0 billion. During the quarter, Genworth repurchased $122 million of stock, bringing the total value of shares repurchased in 2006 through September to $675 million of the total $1.0 billion available authority.
"Genworth delivered sound sales growth and demonstrated strong progress redeploying capital," said Michael D. Fraizer, chairman and chief executive officer. "Our balanced set of businesses keeps us on track to deliver net operating income of $2.75 - $2.85 per diluted share for the total year."
 
Third Quarter Highlights
Business Growth
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the discussion of all international results, the percentage changes, including net operating income, sales, NIW or unearned premium reserves, exclude the impact of foreign exchange.
 
Capital Management & Redeployment
 
 
 
Segment Results
Segment net operating income (loss) presented in the tables below excludes net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments and includes $6 million benefit from foreign exchange. The discussion of segment net operating income (loss) below is on an after-tax basis.
 
Protection
Segment net operating income
 
Sales
 
Life insurance results increased 8 percent primarily from new business growth and continued favorable mortality. LTC income was $38 million, as growth of the in-force business was more than offset by declining investment yields as well as low terminations and higher claims on older policies. Payment protection results increased 13 percent to $26 million reflecting sales expansion, improved underwriting margins associated with a shift in business mix towards continental Europe, and lower taxes. Group net operating income increased 13 percent.
Total universal life sales were up $14 million to $33 million reflecting a 29 percent rise in annualized first year deposits and a two-fold increase in excess deposits. Term life sales declined 5 percent, as distribution expansion and focused customer service were more than offset by the effects of a highly competitive pricing environment and a slowing market. Individual LTC sales increased $6 million to $44 million, as strong growth in the independent distribution channels and increased sales ahead of a price increase on new product sales in
In the discussion of all international results, the percentage changes, including net operating income, sales, NIW or unearned premium reserves, exclude the impact of foreign exchange.
 
California more than offset lower sales in the career channel. During the quarter, actions were implemented to reposition the career sales force away from a centrally organized, leads-based business model to a more entrepreneurial, local sales model. Medicare supplement sales increased $4 million to $7 million, reflecting the company's acquisition earlier this year of Continental Life. Payment protection sales grew 16 percent. Strong sales in growth markets and reciprocal reinsurance transactions in Canada were partially offset by lower U.K. sales. Group sales were up 11 percent to $41 million from enhanced product offerings and distribution penetration.
Retirement Income & Investments (RI&I)
Segment net operating income
 
Spread-based retail results declined $16 million to $23 million compared to the prior year quarter, which included $9 million of bond calls and prepayments versus $2 million in the current quarter and also had $3 million of favorable tax adjustments. Results in the current quarter benefited from wider spreads that were more than offset by net outflows in fixed annuities and $4 million higher amortization of deferred acquisition costs (DAC) mainly related to increased lapse rates on older, low-return fixed annuity blocks. Fee-based net operating income
 
increased 50 percent to $21 million from growth in assets under management and lower taxes. Spread-based institutional net operating income was up 50 percent primarily from widening spreads driven by the shift out of older, lower return GIC contracts to new funding agreements backing notes.
Fee-based sales grew 55 percent, driven by Lifetime Income Plus, a guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit for life product that is part of the income distribution series. Fee-based third-party managed asset sales were up 40 percent, reflecting wholesaler and producer expansion. In spread-based retail, sales of single premium immediate annuities were $250 million, up 32 percent over the prior year. Fixed annuity sales declined 5 percent, reflecting an unfavorable yield curve environment that makes alternative products more attractive. Spread-based institutional sales of $596 million in the quarter included $450 million of funding agreements backing notes.
Mortgage Insurance
Segment net operating income
 
Sales
 
International mortgage insurance income grew 12 percent reflecting strength across leading positions in Canada, Australia and Europe. Income in the prior year included $6 million of favorable items in Australia that did not recur. In Canada, income was up 29 percent from solid
In the discussion of all international results, the percentage changes, including net operating income, sales, NIW or unearned premium reserves, exclude the impact of foreign exchange.
 
revenue growth. In Australia, net operating income excluding the unusual items in the prior year, increased 18 percent from double-digit revenue growth and a lower effective tax rate partially offset by higher losses associated with portfolio seasoning and an increase in losses from a limited number of distribution relationships. Europe and Rest of World contributed $1 million of net operating income versus $2 million in the prior year, primarily from growth across Europe that was more than offset by higher investments in new market platforms and non-recurring employee benefit related expenses.
International NIW increased 31 percent
to $28.7 billion primarily from account penetration in Canada and Europe, higher bulk volume in Canada and modest Australia flow business growth. In Canada, NIW increased 66 percent from customer penetration and growth in mortgage originations and included $2.7 billion of bulk NIW. In Europe and Rest of World, NIW increased 79 percent to $5.4 billion from continued account activation and penetration.
U.S. mortgage insurance income decreased $5 million compared to the prior year quarter, which included a net of $5 million of favorable items that did not recur. U.S. flow persistency was 74 percent in the quarter compared to 59 percent in the prior year as higher interest rates and lower home price appreciation slowed refinancing activity. Current quarter results reflect revenue growth and lower expenses. This was offset by a modest increase in paid claims and an increase in reserves from the seasonal increase in delinquencies.
U.S. mortgage insurance NIW increased to $8.2 billion, reflecting participation in select prime bulk transactions. Flow NIW was flat compared to the prior period as increased account penetration in distribution channels offset a smaller market size. Sales of HomeOpeners, a product designed to compete with simultaneous second mortgages, reached $1.2 billion, or 17 percent of flow production.
In the discussion of all international results, the percentage changes, including net operating income, sales, NIW or unearned premium reserves, exclude the impact of foreign exchange.
 
Corporate and Other
 
The Corporate and Other segment net operating loss was $32 million in the current quarter, $13 million higher than the prior year, primarily from lower investment income on surplus and lower partnership distributions.
Stockholders' Equity
Stockholders' equity as of September 30, 2006 was $13.3 billion, or $29.44 per share compared with $13.3 billion, or $28.31 per share, as of September 30, 2005. Stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, as of September 30, 2006 was $12.1 billion, or $26.86 per share, compared with $11.6 billion, or $24.67 per share as of September 30, 2005.
Share Repurchase
During the quarter, Genworth repurchased 3.6 million shares at a weighted average price of $34.43 per share. Genworth has the remaining authority to repurchase an additional $325 million by June 2007.
The timing of share repurchases under the company's stock repurchase program will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Common stock acquired through the repurchase program will be held as treasury shares and may be used for general corporate purposes, including reissuances in connection with acquisitions, employee stock option exercises or other employee stock plans.
 
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading insurance holding company, serving the lifestyle protection, retirement income, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, and has operations in 24 countries. For more information, visit .
www.genworth.com
Conference Call and Financial Supplement Information
This press release and the financial supplement are now posted on the Company's website. Investors are encouraged to review all of these materials.
A conference call will be held on October 27 at 9 a.m. (EDT) to discuss the quarter's results and outlook. Genworth's conference call will be accessible via telephone and the Internet. The dial-in number for Genworth's October 27 conference call is 1-866-875-7108 or 1-706-634-9180 (outside the U.S.); the pass code is "Genworth." To participate in the call by webcast, register at http://investor.genworth.com at least 15 minutes prior to the webcast, and download and install any necessary software.
The webcast will be archived on the company's website. A replay of the call will be available at 1-800-642-1687 or 1-706-645-9291 (outside the U.S.); pass code 8429033. A downloadable podcast/MP3 file will be available within 24 hours of the earnings call. The webcast replay and file download will be available through November 3, 2006.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income." The company defines net operating income as net income excluding after-tax net investment gains (losses), which can fluctuate significantly from period to period, changes in accounting principles and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income for the periods presented in this press release.
Management believes that analysis of net operating income enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. However, net operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The table at the end of this press release includes a reconciliation of net income to net operating income.
Due to the unpredictable nature of the items excluded from the company's definition of net operating income, the company is unable to reconcile its outlook for net operating income to net income presented in accordance with GAAP.
During 2006, the company began allocating net investment gains (losses) to the segments in determining segment net income. The company excludes net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments, from segment net operating income for each of the segments. Other adjustments represent amortization of deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets associated with the net investment gains (losses). During 2005, all net investment gains (losses) were recorded in the Corporate and Other segment. For a reconciliation of segment net income to segment net operating income, see the company's third quarter 2006 financial supplement on the company's website at www.genworth.com or in the company's Current Report on Form 8-K furnished on October 26, 2006.
From time to time, the company also references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating return on equity" or "operating ROE." The company defines operating ROE as net operating income divided by average stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in average stockholders' equity. Management believes that analysis of operating ROE enhances
 
understanding of the efficiency with which the company deploys its capital. However, operating ROE as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income divided by average stockholders' equity. Due to the unpredictable nature of net income and average stockholders' equity excluding AOCI, the company is unable to reconcile its outlook for operating ROE to GAAP net income divided by average stockholders' equity.
Definition of Sales
The term "sales" as used in this press release means (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life insurance, long-term care insurance, Medicare supplement insurance and group life and health insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, spread-based and variable products; (3) new deposits for managed assets; (4) written premiums, deposits and premium equivalents for third-party administered business gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations for payment protection insurance; (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented; and (6) written premiums net of cancellations for our Mexican-domiciled operations. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, written premiums and new insurance written to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period. This operating measure enables the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
Contact Information:
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This financial supplement includes the non-GAAP* financial measure entitled "net operating income." The company defines net operating income as net income from continuing operations, excluding after-tax net investment gain (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments, changes in accounting principles and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income for the periods presented in this financial supplement.
Management believes that analysis of net operating income enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. However, net operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The table on page 6 of this report provides a reconciliation of net income to net operating income (as defined above) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005.
During 2006, we began allocating net investment gains (losses) to the segments in determining segment net income. We exclude the net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments, from segment net operating income for each of the segments. Other adjustments represent amortization of deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets associated with the net investment gains (losses). During 2005, all net investment gains (losses) were recorded in the Corporate and Other segment.
This financial supplement includes other non-GAAP measures management believes enhances the understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. These additional non-GAAP measures are on pages 47 through 50 of this financial supplement.
 
 
 
See page 47 herein for a reconciliation of GAAP Basis ROE to Operating ROE.
 
 
GENWORTH FINANCIAL, INC.
3Q 2006 FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENWORTH FINANCIAL, INC.
3Q 2006 FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our term life insurance product represent annualized first-year premiums. Annualized first-year premiums are calculated as if premiums are consistently paid for the full period of the sale even if they were actually paid for only a portion of such period. Sales from our universal life product represent annualized first-year deposits and excess deposits.
 
 
 
Sales from our long-term care products represent annualized first-year premiums. Annualized first-year premiums are calculated as if premiums are consistently paid for the full period of the sale even if they were actually paid for only a portion of such period.
 
 
 
Sales from our payment protection insurance business represent total written premiums, deposits and premium equivalents for third-party administered business, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, during the specified period. Payment protection sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 include $96 million and $128 million, respectively, of gross deposits related to reciprocal reinsurance agreements. Sales from our Mexican-domiciled operations represent total written premiums net of cancellations.
Beginning in 2006, our Mexican-domiciled operations are reported within the payment protection insurance business. All quarters presented have been revised to combine our Mexican-domiciled operations with payment protection insurance. The revision has also been made to reflect the impact on the Corporate and Other segment where our Mexican-domiciled operations results were previously reported.
 
 
 
Sales from our group life and health insurance products represent annualized first-year premiums. Annualized first-year premiums are calculated as if premiums are consistently paid for the full period of the sale even if they were actually paid for only a portion of such period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our life-contingent spread-based retail products represent annualized first-year premiums. Annualized first-year premiums are calculated as if premiums are consistently paid for the full period of the sale even if they were actually paid for only a portion of such period. Sales from our non-life-contingent spread-based retail products represent new and additional premiums/deposits.
 
 
 
Sales from our fee-based products represent new and additional premiums/deposits.
 
 
 
 
Sales from our spread-based institutional products represent new and additional premiums/deposits. These products are sold through specialized brokers and investment brokers as well as directly to the contractholder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales represent new insurance written. New insurance written represents the original principal balance of mortgages covered by newly issued mortgage insurance during the specified period.
 
 
 
Sales represent new insurance written. New insurance written represents the original principal balance of mortgages covered by newly issued mortgage insurance during the specified period.
 
 
 
 
GENWORTH FINANCIAL, INC.
3Q 2006 FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yields for fixed maturities and equity securities are based on amortized cost and cost, respectively. Yields for securities lending activity, which is included in other investments, are calculated net of the corresponding securities lending liability. All other yields are based on average carrying values.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENWORTH FINANCIAL, INC.
3Q 2006 FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Operating ROE
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating return on equity" or "operating ROE." The company defines operating ROE as net operating income divided by average stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in average stockholders' equity. Management believes that analysis of operating ROE enhances understanding of the efficiency with which the company deploys its capital. However, operating ROE as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income divided by average stockholders' equity.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Expense Ratio
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "expense ratio" as a measure of productivity. The company defines expense ratio as acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues, excluding the effects of the company's payment protection insurance business. The payment protection insurance business is excluded from this ratio as its expense base is comprised of varying levels of non-deferrable acquisition costs. Management believes that the expense ratio analysis enhances understanding of the productivity of the company. However, the expense ratio as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Premiums
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core premiums" as a measure of premium growth. The company defines core premiums as earned premiums less premiums on a run-off block in our payment protection insurance business and less premiums from our spread-based retail business. The spread-based retail premiums are excluded in this measure primarily because these are single premiums and are not an indication of future premiums. Management believes that analysis of core premiums enhances understanding of premium growth of the company. However, core premiums as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP earned premiums.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Yield
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core yield" as a measure of investment yield. The company defines core yield as the investment yield adjusted for those items that are not recurring in nature. Management believes that analysis of core yield enhances understanding of the investment yield of the company. However, core yield as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP investment yield.
 
GENWORTH FINANCIAL, INC.
3Q 2006 FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT
 
 
Industry Ratings
Our principal life insurance subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
Our mortgage insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
The A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch ratings are not designed to be, and do not serve as, measures of protection or valuation offered to investors. These financial strength ratings should not be relied on with respect to making an investment in our securities.
A.M. Best states that its A+'' (Superior) rating is assigned to those companies that have, in its opinion, a superior ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The A+'' (Superior) rating is the second-highest of fifteen ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from A++'' to S''.
S&P states that an insurer rated "AA" (Very Strong) has very strong financial security characteristics that outweigh any vulnerabilities, and is highly likely to have the ability to meet financial commitments. The "AA" range is the second-highest of the four ratings ranges that meet these criteria, and also is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by S&P, which range from "AAA" to "R." A plus (+) or minus () shows relative standing in a rating category. Accordingly, the "AA" and "AA" ratings are the third-and fourth-highest of S&P's 20 ratings categories. The short-term "A-1" rating is the highest rating and shows the capacity to meet financial commitments is strong. Within this category, the designation of a plus sign (+) indicates capacity to meet its financial commitments is extremely strong.
 
 
Industry Ratings (continued)
Moody's states that insurance companies rated "Aa" (Excellent) offer excellent financial security. Moody's states that companies in this group constitute what are generally known as high-grade companies. The "Aa" range is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by Moody's, which range from "Aaa" to "C." Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. Accordingly, the "Aa2" and "Aa3" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Moody's 21 ratings categories. Short-term rating "P1" is the highest rating and shows superior ability for repayment of short-term debt obligations.
Fitch states that "AA" (Very Strong) rated insurance companies are viewed as possessing very strong capacity to meet policyholder and contract obligations. Risk factors are modest, and the impact of any adverse business and economic factors is expected to be very small. The "AA" rating category is the second-highest of eight financial strength rating categories, which range from "AAA" to "D." The symbol (+) or (-) may be appended to a rating to indicate the relative position of a credit within a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the "AAA" category or to ratings below the "CCC" category. Accordingly, the "AA" and "AA-" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Fitch's 24 ratings categories.
Dominion Bond Rating states that long-term debt rated AA is of superior credit quality, and protection of interest and principal is considered high. In many cases they differ from long-term debt rated AAA only to a small degree. Given the extremely restrictive definition DBRS has for the AAA category, entities rated AA are also considered to be strong credits, typically exemplifying above-average strength in key areas of consideration and unlikely to be significantly affected by reasonably foreseeable events.
A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's, Fitch and Dominion Bond Rating review their ratings periodically and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current ratings in the future. Other agencies may also rate our company or our insurance subsidiaries on a solicited or an unsolicited basis.
On June 2, 2006, A.M. Best removed Continental Life Insurance Company of Brentwood, Tennessee from under review and upgraded the financial strength ratings to A- (excellent) from B++ (very good). The outlook for the rating is positive.
On October 25, 2006, Fitch Ratings and Moody's Investor Services assigned a rating to Private Residential Mortgage Insurance Corporation (PRMIC). PRMIC has been reactivated in order to insure certain types of loans that would not be permitted under Genworth Mortgage Insurance Corporation existing monoline insurance charter.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading insurance holding company, serving the lifestyle protection, retirement income, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, and has operations in 24 countries, including the U.S., Canada, Australia, the U.K. and more than a dozen other European countries. For more information, visit www.genworth.com.
Inquiries:
Genworth Financial, Inc.
Jean Peters, 804-662-2693
jean.peters@genworth.com
Alicia Charity, 804-662-2248
alicia.charity@genworth.com
Linnea Olsen, 804-662-2536
linnea.olsen@genworth.com
 


