FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20061025165248.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On October 24, 2006, Rivermont Life Insurance Company I ("Rivermont I"), a special purpose financial captive insurance company wholly owned by First Colony Life Insurance Company ("First Colony"), itself an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Genworth Financial, Inc. (the "Company"), issued $315,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of floating rate surplus notes due 2050 (the "Notes"). Rivermont I has received regulatory approval to issue additional series of its floating rate surplus notes up to an aggregate principal amount of $475,000,000 (including the Notes), but is under no obligation to do so. The Notes are direct financial obligations of Rivermont I and are not guaranteed by First Colony or the Company.
The Notes were issued by Rivermont I to fund statutory reserves for policies subject to Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Regulation (more commonly known as "Regulation XXX"), as clarified by Actuarial Guideline 38 (more commonly known as "AXXX") and its predecessor regulations. Rivermont I has reinsured from First Colony, on a combination coinsurance and modified coinsurance basis, certain universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees written or reinsured by First Colony. The Company has agreed to provide a limited guaranty to Rivermont I to mitigate certain interest rate risks associated with this reinsurance. First Colony has also agreed to indemnify Rivermont I for certain limited costs.
The Notes have been sold to Lehman Brothers Inc. for deposit into certain Delaware trusts (the "Trusts") that will issue money market or term securities (the "Securities"). The holders of the Notes cannot require repayment from the Company or any of its subsidiaries, other than Rivermont I, the direct issuer of the Notes. The Company has also agreed, under certain circumstances, to provide to the Trusts a certain amount of liquidity in the event that the Trusts do not have sufficient funds available to fully redeem the Securities at the stated maturity date.
Rivermont I will pay interest on the principal amount of the Notes on a monthly basis, subject to regulatory approval. Any payment of principal of, including by redemption, or interest on the Notes may only be made with the prior approval of the Director of Insurance of the State of South Carolina in accordance with the terms of its licensing order and in accordance with applicable law. The holders of the Notes have no rights to accelerate payment of principal of the Notes under any circumstances, including without limitation, for nonpayment or breach of any covenant. Rivermont I reserves the right to repay the Notes at any time, subject to the terms of the Notes and prior regulatory approval.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


