FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20070510161707.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The condensed consolidated financial statements of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty. Ltd., an indirect subsidiary of Genworth Financial, Inc., as of March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, and for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, are included in Exhibit 99.1 to Item 9.01 of this Form 8-K.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibit) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing. This information may be included or incorporated by reference in registration statements or reports filed under the Securities Act, or the Exchange Act, in connection with the issuance of asset-backed securities by one or more third parties.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following material is furnished as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Ltd
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Nature of Business, Formation of Genworth Mortgage and Basis of Presentation
Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Ltd ("Genworth Mortgage" or "the Company" as appropriate) offers mortgage insurance products in Australia and New Zealand and is headquartered in Sydney, Australia. In particular, the Company offers primary mortgage insurance, known as "lenders mortgage insurance," or LMI, and portfolio credit enhancement policies. The principal product is LMI, which is generally single premium business and provides 100% coverage of the loan amount in the event of a mortgage default.
The Company's condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") and rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") disclosure requirements for interim financial information. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete consolidated financial statements. These condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments considered necessary by management to present a fair statement of the financial position, results of operations, and cash flow for the periods presented. The results reported in these condensed consolidated financial statements should not be regarded as necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for the entire year. The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and related notes contained in our 2006 year end financial statements on Form 8-K furnished on March 15, 2007.
The Company's management has determined that the Company has one reportable operating segment, mortgage insurance.
Genworth Mortgage, formerly GE Mortgage Insurance Company Pty Ltd, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Holdings Pty Ltd and was incorporated in Australia on November 10, 2003. The ultimate parent company of Genworth Mortgage is Genworth Financial, Inc. ("Genworth"). Genworth is a company incorporated in Delaware on October 23, 2003. GE Mortgage Insurance Company Pty Ltd changed its name to Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Ltd on November 28, 2005.
The condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of U.S. GAAP. Preparing financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars. The accompanying financial statements include Genworth Financial Mortgage Indemnity Limited and are prepared on a consolidated basis. All intercompany transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements.
 
(2) Accounting Pronouncements
Recently adopted
On January 1, 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48, This guidance clarifies the criteria that must be satisfied to recognize the financial statement benefit of a position taken in our tax returns. The criteria for recognition in the consolidated financial statements set forth in FIN No. 48 require an affirmative determination that it is more likely than not, based on a tax position's technical merits, that we are entitled to the benefit of that position. The adoption of this interpretation did not have a material impact on the consolidated results of operations and financial position.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes.
Upon adoption of FIN No. 48 on January 1, 2007, there were no unrecognized tax benefits, accrued interest or penalties.
We file Australian income tax returns and are not currently under examination by the Australia Taxation Office. We are no longer subject to examination for tax years prior to 2002.
On January 1, 2007, we adopted the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") Statement of Position ("SOP") 05-1,. This statement provides guidance on accounting for deferred acquisition costs and other balances on an internal replacement, defined broadly as a modification in product benefits, features, rights, or coverages that occurs by the exchange of an existing contract for a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to an existing contract, or by the election of a benefit, feature, right, or coverage within an existing contract. The adoption of this interpretation did not have a material impact on the consolidated results of operations and financial position.
Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection With Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts
Not yet adopted
In September 2006, FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 157,. This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for us on January 1, 2008. We do not expect SFAS No. 157 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Fair Value Measurements
In February 2007, FASB issued SFAS No. 159,. This statement provides an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities, including insurance contracts, at fair value. SFAS No. 159 will be effective for us on January 1, 2008. We have not decided whether we will elect the fair value option for any financial assets or liabilities; and therefore, do not know the impact, if any, SFAS No. 159 will have on our consolidated financial statements.
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
 
(3) Statutory Accounting
Genworth Mortgage prepares financial statements for its regulator, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority ("APRA") in accordance with the accounting practices prescribed by the regulator, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than U.S. GAAP. The main differences are as follows:
 
 
 
 
The Company's APRA net income after tax, capital base, minimum capital requirement and solvency ratio as of, and for the year ended are as follows:
 
 
The APRA solvency ratio is the combined amounts of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Ltd and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Genworth Financial Mortgage Indemnity Limited.
Under the prudential regulation framework in Australia, mortgage insurers are required to establish a catastrophic risk charge defined as a 1 in 250 year event. The Company is required to maintain adequate capital to fund this charge, in addition to normal insurance liabilities, by ensuring that its capital base exceeds its minimum capital requirement at all times.
The APRA solvency ratio at December 31, 2006 was reported as 1.20. APRA revised the prudential supervision of LMI with effect from January 1, 2006. These revisions strengthened the LMI capital and reporting framework and resulted in increased minimum capital requirements for LMI providers. During the first quarter of 2007, the Company recalculated its APRA solvency ratio to include the effect of financed premiums and under that recalculation the APRA solvency ratio at December 31, 2006 was 1.07.
On March 30, 2007, the Company received a capital contribution of $234 million from its parent company, Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Holdings Pty Ltd as part of its regulatory capital management plan. As of March 31, 2007, the APRA solvency ratio is 1.30.
 


