FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20070329080111.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 1, 2007, Genworth Financial, Inc. (the "Company") furnished its financial supplement for the quarter ended December 31, 2006 on a Current Report on Form 8-K. On January 9, 2007, the Company announced the reorganization of its businesses into three new operating segments: Retirement and Protection, International and U.S. Mortgage Insurance. The reorganization was intended to more directly align high-growth international, mortgage insurance and retirement and protection business opportunities. In addition, on January 10, 2007, the Company entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement, whereby the Company agreed to sell its group life and health insurance business for $650 million in cash. A revised financial supplement for the quarter ended December 31, 2006 reflecting the realigned segment reporting structure is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
All updates to the financial supplement relate solely to the presentation of segment specific disclosures and the effects of the classification of the group life and health business presented as discontinued operations and have no effect on the Company's previously reported results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibit) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following material is furnished as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
GENWORTH FINANCIAL, INC.
DATE: March 29, 2007
By:  
/s/ Scott R. Lindquist                                             
        Scott R. Lindquist
        Vice President and Controller
        (Principal Accounting Officer)

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Dear Investor,
In conjunction with Genworth's realignment, announced in January 2007, we have prepared this fourth quarter financial supplement that reflects the changes in segment reporting structure and presents the group life and health businesses as discontinued operations.
All prior periods included herein have been represented to reflect the above-mentioned changes in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
Please feel free to call one of us with any additional questions.
Regards,
Alicia Charity
Vice President
Investor Relations
804-662-2248
Linnea Olsen
Director
Investor Relations
804-662-2536
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This financial supplement includes the non-GAAP
(1)
financial measure entitled "net operating income." The company defines net operating income as net income from continuing operations, excluding after-tax net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments, changes in accounting principles and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income for the periods presented in this financial supplement.
Management believes that analysis of net operating income enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. However, net operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The table on page 7 of this report provides a reconciliation of net income to net operating income (as defined above) for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
During 2006, we began allocating net investment gains (losses) to the segments in determining segment net income. We exclude net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments, from segment net operating income for each of the segments. Other adjustments represent amortization of deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets associated with net investment gains (losses). During 2005, all net investment gains (losses) were recorded in Corporate and Other.
This financial supplement includes other non-GAAP measures management believes enhances the understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. These additional non-GAAP measures are on pages 56 through 59 of this financial supplement.
 
 
 
 
See page 56 herein for a reconciliation of GAAP Basis ROE to Operating ROE.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Managed Money results represent AssetMark Investment Services, Inc., Genworth Financial Asset Management, Inc., Genworth Financial Advisers Corporation, Genworth Financial Trust Company and Capital Brokerage Corporation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our fee-based products represent new and additional premiums/deposits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our life-contingent spread-based retail products represent annualized first-year premiums. Annualized first-year premiums are calculated as if premiums are consistently paid for the full period of the sale even if they were actually paid for only a portion of such period. Sales from our non-life-contingent spread-based retail products represent new and additional premiums/deposits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our spread-based institutional products represent new and additional premiums/deposits. These products are sold through specialized brokers and investment brokers as well as directly to the contractholder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our term life insurance product represent annualized first-year premiums. Annualized first-year premiums are calculated as if premiums are consistently paid for the full period of the sale even if they were actually paid for only a portion of such period. Sales from our universal life product represent annualized first-year deposits and excess deposits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our long-term care products represent annualized first-year premiums. Annualized first-year premiums are calculated as if premiums are consistently paid for the full period of the sale even if they were actually paid for only a portion of such period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales represent new insurance written. New insurance written represents the original principal balance of mortgages covered by newly issued mortgage insurance during the specified period.
 
 
 
 
Sales represent new insurance written. New insurance written represents the original principal balance of mortgages covered by newly issued mortgage insurance during the specified period.
 
 
 
 
Sales represent new insurance written. New insurance written represents the original principal balance of mortgages covered by newly issued mortgage insurance during the specified period.
 
 
 
 
The loss and expense ratios included above are calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition of Loss Ratio Before Impact of Adjustments
The results and ratios "before impact of adjustments" are non-GAAP measures based on financial information not in accordance with GAAP. The adjustments included on this page include the impact of the cumulative adjustment of earned premiums, with a related amortization of deferred acquisition costs adjustment, and the increase to losses due to an update of loss factors. The cumulative adjustment of earned premiums is the result of a study to update the amortization pattern of unearned premiums based on historical experience and estimated expected future expiration of risk. Management believes the loss ratios before the impact of the adjustments enhances understanding of our loss experience of our International Mortgage Insurance business. However, the loss ratios "before impact of adjustments" should not be viewed as a substitute for the loss ratios calculated based on GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
Sales from our payment protection insurance business represent total written premiums, deposits and premium equivalents for third-party administered business, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, during the specified period.
Beginning in 2006, our Mexico-domiciled insurer is reported within the payment protection insurance business. All quarters presented have been revised to combine our Mexico-domiciled insurer operations with payment protection insurance. The revision has also been made to reflect the impact on Corporate and Other where our Mexico-domiciled insurer was previously reported. Sales from our Mexico-domiciled insurer represent net written premium, net of cancellations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Analysis for Change in Accounting:
During the fourth quarter of 2006, approximately $73 million of premiums related to certain reinsurance assumed business were reclassified from reinsurance accounting to the deposit method of accounting. This change in accounting also resulted in reclassifications in the investment income, benefits and other changes in policyholder reserves and interest expense captions on the income statement, but had no impact on segment net income or segment net operating income in the fourth quarter of 2006. The fourth quarter 2006 reclassification to the deposit method of accounting presented on page 40 was treated as a cumulative catch-up for the previous three quarters of 2006.
To better facilitate the analysis of PPI's sales, revenue and expense trends, the above represents all 2006 and 2005 quarterly income statements and sales data on a basis consistent with these reinsurance assumed arrangements being accounted for under the deposit method of accounting. This change in accounting had no impact on segment net income from continuing operations or segment net operating income for all periods presented.
 
 
 
 
Sales represent new insurance written. New insurance written represents the original principal balance of mortgages covered by newly issued mortgage insurance during the specified period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition of Loss Ratio Before Impact of Adjustments
The results and ratios "before impact of adjustments" are non-GAAP measures based on financial information not in accordance with GAAP. The adjustments included on this page include the impact of the cumulative adjustment of earned premiums, with a related amortization of deferred acquisition costs adjustment, and the increase to losses due to an update of loss factors. The cumulative adjustment of earned premiums is the result of a study to update the amortization pattern of unearned premiums based on historical experience and estimated expected future expiration of risk. Management believes the loss ratios before the impact of the adjustments enhances understanding of our loss experience of our U.S. Mortgage Insurance business. However, the loss ratios "before impact of adjustments" should not be viewed as a substitute for the loss ratios calculated based on GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yields for fixed maturities and equity securities are based on amortized cost and cost, respectively. Yields for securities lending activity, which is included in other investments, are calculated net of the corresponding securities lending liability. All other yields are based on average carrying values.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Operating ROE
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating return on equity" or "operating ROE." The company defines operating ROE as net operating income divided by average ending stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in average ending stockholders' equity. Management believes that analysis of operating ROE enhances understanding of the efficiency with which the company deploys its capital. However, operating ROE as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income divided by average ending stockholders' equity.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Expense Ratio
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "expense ratio" as a measure of productivity. The company defines expense ratio as acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues, excluding the effects of the company's payment protection insurance business. The payment protection insurance business is excluded from this ratio as its expense base is comprised of varying levels of non-deferrable acquisition costs. Management believes that the expense ratio analysis enhances understanding of the productivity of the company. However, the expense ratio as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Premiums
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core premiums" as a measure of premium growth. The company defines core premiums as earned premiums less premiums on a run-off block in our payment protection insurance business and less premiums from our spread-based retail business. The spread-based retail premiums are excluded in this measure primarily because these are single premiums and are not an indication of future premiums. Management believes that analysis of core premiums enhances understanding of premium growth of the company. However, core premiums as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP earned premiums.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Yield
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core yield" as a measure of investment yield. The company defines core yield as the investment yield adjusted for those items that are not recurring in nature. Management believes that analysis of core yield enhances understanding of the investment yield of the company. However, core yield as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP investment yield.
 
 
 
 
Industry Ratings
Our principal life insurance subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
Our mortgage insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
The A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch ratings are not designed to be, and do not serve as, measures of protection or valuation offered to investors. These financial strength ratings should not be relied on with respect to making an investment in our securities.
A.M. Best states that its "A+" (Superior) rating is assigned to those companies that have, in its opinion, a superior ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The "A+" (Superior) rating is the second-highest of fifteen ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from "A++" to "S".
S&P states that an insurer rated "AA" (Very Strong) has very strong financial security characteristics that outweigh any vulnerabilities, and is highly likely to have the ability to meet financial commitments. The "AA" range is the second-highest of the four ratings ranges that meet these criteria, and also is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by S&P, which range from "AAA" to "R." A plus (+) or minus (-) shows relative standing in a rating category. Accordingly, the "AA" and "AA-" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of S&P's 20 ratings categories. The short-term "A-1" rating is the highest rating and shows the capacity to meet financial commitments is strong. Within this category, the designation of a plus sign (+) indicates capacity to meet its financial commitments is extremely strong.
 
 
Industry Ratings (continued)
Moody's states that insurance companies rated "Aa" (Excellent) offer excellent financial security. Moody's states that companies in this group constitute what are generally known as high-grade companies. The "Aa" range is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by Moody's, which range from "Aaa" to "C." Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. Accordingly, the "Aa2" and "Aa3" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Moody's 21 ratings categories. Short-term rating "P1" is the highest rating and shows superior ability for repayment of short-term debt obligations.
Fitch states that "AA" (Very Strong) rated insurance companies are viewed as possessing very strong capacity to meet policyholder and contract obligations. Risk factors are modest, and the impact of any adverse business and economic factors is expected to be very small. The "AA" rating category is the second-highest of eight financial strength rating categories, which range from "AAA" to "D." The symbol (+) or (-) may be appended to a rating to indicate the relative position of a credit within a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the "AAA" category or to ratings below the "CCC" category. Accordingly, the "AA" and "AA-" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Fitch's 24 ratings categories.
DBRS states that long-term debt rated AA is of superior credit quality, and protection of interest and principal is considered high. In many cases they differ from long-term debt rated AAA only to a small degree. Given the extremely restrictive definition DBRS has for the AAA category, entities rated AA are also considered to be strong credits, typically exemplifying above-average strength in key areas of consideration and unlikely to be significantly affected by reasonably foreseeable events.
A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's, Fitch and DBRS review their ratings periodically and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current ratings in the future. Other agencies may also rate our company or our insurance subsidiaries on a solicited or an unsolicited basis.
On June 2, 2006, A.M. Best removed Continental Life Insurance Company of Brentwood, Tennessee from under review and upgraded the financial strength ratings to A- (excellent) from B++ (very good). The outlook for the rating is positive.
On October 25, 2006, Fitch Ratings and Moody's Investor Services assigned a rating to Private Residential Mortgage Insurance Corporation (PRMIC). PRMIC has been reactivated in order to insure certain types of loans that would not be permitted under Genworth Mortgage Insurance Corporation existing monoline insurance charter.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading financial security company meeting the retirement, longevity and lifestyle protection, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, with a presence in more than 25 countries. For more information, visit www.genworth.com.
Inquiries:
Genworth Financial, Inc.
Jean Peters, 804-662-2693
jean.peters@genworth.com
Alicia Charity, 804-662-2248
alicia.charity@genworth.com
Linnea Olsen, 804-662-2536
linnea.olsen@genworth.com
 


