FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20070430173351.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 30, 2007, Genworth Financial, Inc. issued (1) a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and (2) a financial supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibits) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
Item 9.01(d). Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following materials are furnished as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Richmond, VA (April 30, 2007)  Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) today reported net income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2007 of $314 million, or $0.69 per diluted share. Net income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2006 was $322 million, or $0.67 per diluted share. Net income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2007 included a non-recurring charge of $14 million for after-tax reorganization related expenses and $12 million of after-tax net investment losses. Net income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2006 included $15 million of after-tax net investment losses.
 
Net operating income for the first quarter of 2007 was $340 million, or $0.75 per diluted share, compared to net operating income of $337 million, or $0.70 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2006.
 
"Genworth is off to a sound start in 2007, with strong growth in key platforms including fee-based managed money and retirement income, universal life insurance and our international operations," said Michael D. Fraizer, chairman and chief executive officer. "We remain focused on transitioning the performance of our old long term care block of business and building growth momentum in the U.S. mortgage insurance business."
Recent Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2007 Outlook
Genworth affirmed its 2007 outlook for net operating income of $3.15 to $3.25 per diluted share.
Segment Results
Segment net operating income presented in the tables below exclude net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and reorganization costs incurred, net of taxes. In the discussion of results, all percentage changes referenced exclude the impact of foreign exchange. The impact of foreign exchange on net operating income in the first quarter of 2007 was a favorable $4 million in the International segment.
 
Retirement and Protection segment net operating income increased 4 percent in the first quarter to $185 million driven by a shift to fee-based managed money and retirement income products. The increase was driven by five-fold growth in managed money earnings, including a $4 million contribution from AssetMark. Managed money AUM nearly tripled to $18.8 billion.
Retirement income earnings declined $3 million to $46 million in the current quarter, reflecting the absence of $6 million of favorable items, which occurred in the prior year period. Excluding prior year items, earnings grew by 7 percent driven by a 72 percent increase in fee-based assets under management, partially offset by a 5 percent decline in spread-based retail assets and $3 million in lower service-related fees. Institutional earnings were
 
up 40 percent to $14 million driven by a 10 percent increase in assets under management and improved spreads. Life insurance earnings were up 5 percent to $78 million from growth in premiums and policy fees, partially offset by less favorable mortality. Long term care (LTC) results reflected lower expenses and solid performance in newer issued policies, offset by higher losses in the older LTC books of business and lower investment yields. The prior year quarter included $5 million of favorable reserve items.
Managed money sales nearly tripled to $1.7 billion, reflecting strong organic growth and the AssetMark acquisition. Income distribution series product sales increased by $145 million to $409 million as a result of strong growth in the guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit for life product. Lower spread-based, fixed annuity sales reflected the unfavorable yield curve environment that continued to make alternative products attractive. Total life sales increased 42 percent to $88 million, as a doubling of universal life sales more than offset a 15 percent decline in term life sales. Universal life sales in the quarter included $48 million of excess deposits. Lower term life sales reflected the continued competitive pricing environment and an ongoing shift by brokerage general agents toward universal life products. LTC sales increased 8 percent from $4 million in sales of a newly introduced linked benefit product that combines universal life and LTC product features. Consistent individual LTC growth in the independent sales channel offset a decline in the career sales channel as it transitions to an entrepreneurial sales model.
 
International net operating income increased 17 percent to $123 million. In Canada, net operating income was up 22 percent reflecting solid revenue growth and a stable loss environment. In Australia, net operating income increased 13 percent from double-digit revenue growth and favorable taxes, partially offset by higher losses. Other international mortgage insurance results reflected strong earnings growth in Europe partially offset by expenses related to investment in newer markets. Payment protection earnings increased 8 percent from strong premium growth and lower taxes.
International mortgage insurance NIW increased 33 percent from higher flow sales in Canada and Europe and increased bulk sales in Australia, Europe and Japan. In Canada, flow sales increased 53 percent as the company continued to gain share in a growing market. In Australia, sales increased 36 percent after adjusting for a net catch-up in client sales reporting of $3 billion in the comparable quarters, and included a $1.8 billion increase in bulk sales in the current period. In other international mortgage insurance, sales increased $4.7 billion from strong growth in southern Europe and the U.K., and the completion of a $2.6 billion bulk transaction in Japan. Payment protection sales increased 28 percent as a result of higher volume in Canada, volume growth in the U.K. and expansion in Continental Europe.
 
U.S. Mortgage Insurance net operating income declined $7 million to $65 million, as 18 percent premium growth was more than offset by $33 million of higher losses. Losses in the first quarter of 2006 were highly favorable, primarily from an unusual decrease in delinquency counts.
Primary IIF increased for the fifth sequential quarter to $120.5 billion reflecting strong sales growth and higher persistency. U.S. flow mortgage insurance sales grew 25 percent, reflecting growth in the mortgage insurance market. U.S. bulk mortgage insurance sales increased $4.8 billion.
Paid claims increased 23 percent or $7 million. The increase in paid claims was primarily in the Great Lakes region and from claims paid on higher average loan balances. Excluding the Great Lakes, claims increased 13 percent. Loss reserves increased sequentially $14 million in the quarter from higher reserves per delinquency associated with larger loan balances and increased foreclosure inventories. Primary delinquency counts were down 4 percent on a sequential quarter basis, consistent with historical seasonal trends.
 
Corporate and Other
 
Corporate and Other net operating loss was $33 million reflecting lower income related to reduced partnership distributions and increased expenses.
Stockholders' Equity
Stockholders' equity as of March 31, 2007 was $13.3 billion, or $30.43 per share, compared with $12.5 billion, or $27.37 per share, as of March 31, 2006. Stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, as of March 31, 2007 was $12.2 billion, or $27.89 per share, compared with $11.7 billion, or $25.74 per share, as of March 31, 2006.
Share Repurchases
During the quarter, Genworth repurchased 6.6 million shares at a weighted average price of $35.16 per share. As of March 31, 2007, Genworth had the authority to repurchase an additional $867 million in 2007.
The timing of future share repurchases under the company's stock repurchase program will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Common stock acquired through the repurchase program will be held as treasury shares and may be used for general corporate purposes, including reissuances in connection with acquisitions, employee stock option exercises or other employee stock plans.
 
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading financial security company meeting the retirement, longevity and lifestyle protection, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers with a presence in more than 25 countries. For more information, visit
genworth.com
.
Conference Call and Financial Supplement Information
This press release and the first quarter 2007 financial supplement are now posted on the company's website. Also posted on the company's website is a graphical depiction of the company's new segmentation that is effective beginning with the first quarter of 2007. Investors are encouraged to review all of these materials. Genworth will conduct a conference call on May 1 from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. (EDT) to discuss the quarter's results and outlook. The conference call will be accessible via telephone and the Internet. The dial-in number for Genworth's May 1 conference call is 1-866-875-7108 or 1-706-634-9180 (outside the U.S.). To participate in the call by webcast, register at
http://investor.genworth.com
at least 15 minutes prior to the webcast to download and install any necessary software.
The webcast will be archived on the company's website. A replay of the call will be available at 1-800-642-1687 or 1-706-645-9291 (outside the U.S.); pass code 5654632. A downloadable podcast/MP3 file will be available within 24 hours of the earnings call. The webcast replay and file download will be available through May 15, 2007.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income." The company defines net operating income as net income from continuing operations excluding after-tax net investment gains (losses), which can fluctuate significantly from period to period, changes in accounting principles and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income for the periods presented in this press release other than a $14 million after-tax expense recorded in the first quarter of 2007 related to reorganization costs.
Management believes that analysis of net operating income enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. However, net operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The table at the end of this press release includes a reconciliation of net income to net operating income.
Due to the unpredictable nature of the items excluded from the company's definition of net operating income, the company is unable to reconcile its outlook for net operating income to net income presented in accordance with GAAP.
 
For a reconciliation of segment net income to segment net operating income, see the company's first quarter 2007 financial supplement on the company's website at
genworth.com
or in the company's Current Report on Form 8-K furnished on April 30, 2007.
Definition of Sales
The term "sales" as used in this press release means (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life insurance, long term care insurance and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, linked-benefits, spread-based and variable products; (3) new deposits for managed assets; (4) written premiums, deposits and premium equivalents for third-party administered business, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations for payment protection insurance; (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented; and (6) written premiums net of cancellations for our Mexican insurance operations. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, written premiums and new insurance written to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period. This operating measure enables the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
Contact Information:
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Dear Investor,
You will note that this first quarter supplement has some new disclosures in an effort to provide additional transparency into our financial trends. The new disclosures are: (1) balance sheets by segment, (2) loans in default and claims for our international mortgage insurance business, (3) U.S. Mortgage Insurance loan portfolio information, and (4) U.S. Mortgage Insurance primary insurance in-force and risk in-force by year of policy origination.
In addition, a reminder that our group life and health insurance business is now reported as a discontinued operation and is no longer included in our net operating income. The sale of this business is expected to close during the second quarter of 2007.
Once again, thank you for your continued interest in Genworth Financial and please feel free to call one of us with any questions or comments.
Regards,
Alicia Charity
Vice President
Investor Relations
804-662-2248
Linnea Olsen
Director
Investor Relations
804-662-2536
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This financial supplement includes the non-GAAP
(1)
financial measure entitled "net operating income." The company defines net operating income as net income from continuing operations, excluding after-tax net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments, changes in accounting principles and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income for the periods presented in this financial supplement other than $14 million after-tax of reorganization related expenses recorded in the first quarter of 2007.
Management believes that analysis of net operating income enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. However, net operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The table on page 7 of this report provides a reconciliation of net income to net operating income (as defined above) for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006.
This financial supplement includes other non-GAAP measures management believes enhances the understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. These additional non-GAAP measures are on pages 56 through 60 of this financial supplement.
 
 
 
 
See page 57 herein for a reconciliation of GAAP Basis ROE to Operating ROE.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 2007 amounts exclude the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates on the current period ended and were calculated by applying the same prior year comparable period foreign exchange rates to the current period.
 
 
 
The operating income effective tax rate for all pages in this financial supplement are calculated using whole dollars. As a result, the percentages shown may differ with the operating income effective tax rate calculated using the rounded numbers in this financial supplement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales for our managed assets represent new deposits.
Managed Money results represent AssetMark Investment Services, Inc., Genworth Financial Asset Management, Inc., Genworth Financial Advisers Corporation, Genworth Financial Trust Company and Capital Brokerage Corporation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our fee-based products represent new and additional premiums/deposits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our life-contingent spread-based retail products represent annualized first-year premiums. Annualized first-year premiums are calculated as if premiums are consistently paid for the full period of the sale even if they were actually paid for only a portion of such period. Sales from our non-life-contingent spread-based retail products represent new and additional premiums/deposits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our Institutional products represent new and additional premiums/deposits. These products are sold through specialized brokers and investment brokers as well as directly to the contractholder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our term life insurance product represent annualized first-year premiums. Annualized first-year premiums are calculated as if premiums are consistently paid for the full period of the sale even if they were actually paid for only a portion of such period. Sales from our universal life product represent annualized first-year deposits and excess deposits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our long-term care products represent annualized first-year premiums and deposits. Annualized first-year premiums are calculated as if premiums are consistently paid for the full period of the sale even if they were actually paid for only a portion of such period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales represent new insurance written. New insurance written represents the original principal balance of mortgages covered by newly issued mortgage insurance during the specified period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales represent new insurance written. New insurance written represents the original principal balance of mortgages covered by newly issued mortgage insurance during the specified period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales represent new insurance written. New insurance written represents the original principal balance of mortgages covered by newly issued mortgage insurance during the specified period.
 
 
 
 
 
The loss and expense ratios included above are calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our payment protection insurance business represent total written premiums, deposits and premium equivalents for third-party administered business, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, during the specified period.
Sales from our Mexico operations represent net written premium, net of cancellations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Analysis for Change in Accounting:
During the fourth quarter of 2006, approximately $73 million of premiums related to certain reinsurance assumed business were reclassified from reinsurance accounting to the deposit method of accounting. This change in accounting also resulted in reclassifications in the investment income, benefits and other changes in policyholder reserves and interest expense captions on the income statement, but had no impact on segment net income or segment net operating income in the fourth quarter of 2006. The fourth quarter 2006 reclassification to the deposit method of accounting presented on page 40 was treated as a cumulative catch-up for the previous three quarters of 2006.
To better facilitate the analysis of PPI's sales, revenue and expense trends, the above represents all 2006 quarterly income statements and sales data on a basis consistent with these reinsurance assumed arrangements being accounted for under the deposit method of accounting. This change in accounting had no impact on segment net income from continuing operations or segment net operating income for all periods presented.
 
 
 
 
Sales represent new insurance written. New insurance written represents the original principal balance of mortgages covered by newly issued mortgage insurance during the specified period.
 
 
 
 
The loss and expense ratios included above are calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yields for fixed maturities and equity securities are based on amortized cost and cost, respectively. Yields for securities lending activity, which is included in other investments, are calculated net of the corresponding securities lending liability. All other yields are based on average carrying values.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Operating ROE
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating return on equity" or "operating ROE." The company defines operating ROE as net operating income divided by average ending stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in average ending stockholders' equity. Management believes that analysis of operating ROE enhances understanding of the efficiency with which the company deploys its capital. However, operating ROE as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income divided by average ending stockholders' equity.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Expense Ratio
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "expense ratio" as a measure of productivity. The company defines expense ratio as acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues, excluding the effects of the company's payment protection insurance business. The payment protection insurance business is excluded from this ratio as its expense base is comprised of varying levels of non-deferrable acquisition costs. Management believes that the expense ratio analysis enhances understanding of the productivity of the company. However, the expense ratio as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Premiums
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core premiums" as a measure of premium growth. The company defines core premiums as earned premiums less premiums on run-off and Travel Insurance blocks in our payment protection insurance business and less premiums from our spread-based retail business. The retirement incomespread-based premiums are excluded in this measure primarily because these are single premiums and are not an indication of future premiums. Management believes that analysis of core premiums enhances understanding of premium growth of the company. However, core premiums as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP earned premiums.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Yield
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core yield" as a measure of investment yield. The company defines core yield as the investment yield adjusted for those items that are not recurring in nature. Management believes that analysis of core yield enhances understanding of the investment yield of the company. However, core yield as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP investment yield.
 
 
 
Industry Ratings
Our principal life insurance subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
Our mortgage insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
The A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch ratings are not designed to be, and do not serve as, measures of protection or valuation offered to investors. These financial strength ratings should not be relied on with respect to making an investment in our securities.
A.M. Best states that its "A+" (Superior) rating is assigned to those companies that have, in its opinion, a superior ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The "A+" (Superior) rating is the second-highest of fifteen ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from "A++" to "S".
S&P states that an insurer rated "AA" (Very Strong) has very strong financial security characteristics that outweigh any vulnerabilities, and is highly likely to have the ability to meet financial commitments. The "AA" range is the second-highest of the four ratings ranges that meet these criteria, and also is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by S&P, which range from "AAA" to "R." A plus (+) or minus (-) shows relative standing in a rating category. Accordingly, the "AA" and "AA-" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of S&P's 20 ratings categories. The short-term "A-1" rating is the highest rating and shows the capacity to meet financial commitments is strong. Within this category, the designation of a plus sign (+) indicates capacity to meet its financial commitments is extremely strong.
 
 
Industry Ratings (continued)
Moody's states that insurance companies rated "Aa" (Excellent) offer excellent financial security. Moody's states that companies in this group constitute what are generally known as high-grade companies. The "Aa" range is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by Moody's, which range from "Aaa" to "C." Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. Accordingly, the "Aa2" and "Aa3" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Moody's 21 ratings categories. Short-term rating "P1" is the highest rating and shows superior ability for repayment of short-term debt obligations.
Fitch states that AA'' (Very Strong) rated insurance companies are viewed as possessing very strong capacity to meet policyholder and contract obligations. Risk factors are modest, and the impact of any adverse business and economic factors is expected to be very small. The AA'' rating category is the second-highest of eight financial strength rating categories, which range from AAA'' to D.'' The symbol (+) or (-) may be appended to a rating to indicate the relative position of a credit within a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the AAA'' category or to ratings below the CCC'' category. Accordingly, the AA'' and AA-'' ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Fitch's 24 ratings categories.
DBRS states that long-term debt rated AA is of superior credit quality, and protection of interest and principal is considered high. In many cases they differ from long-term debt rated AAA only to a small degree. Given the extremely restrictive definition DBRS has for the AAA category, entities rated AA are also considered to be strong credits, typically exemplifying above-average strength in key areas of consideration and unlikely to be significantly affected by reasonably foreseeable events.
A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's, Fitch and DBRS review their ratings periodically and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current ratings in the future. Other agencies may also rate our company or our insurance subsidiaries on a solicited or an unsolicited basis.
On April 4, 2007, AM Best upgraded Continental Life Insurance Company from an "A-" to "A". In addition, the outlook was changed from positive to stable.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading financial security company meeting the retirement, longevity and lifestyle protection, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, with a presence in more than 25 countries. For more information, visit www.genworth.com.
Inquiries:
Alicia Charity, 804-662-2248
alicia.charity@genworth.com
Linnea Olsen, 804-662-2536
linnea.olsen@genworth.com
 


