FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20070726164702.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 26, 2007, Genworth Financial, Inc. issued (1) a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and (2) a financial supplement for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibits) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following materials are furnished as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Insurance for living.
     Solutions for life.
Richmond, VA (July 26, 2007)  Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) today reported income from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2007 of $321 million, or $0.72 per diluted share. Income from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2006 was $306 million, or $0.66 per diluted share.
 
Net operating income for the second quarter of 2007 was $351 million, or $0.78 per diluted share, compared to net operating income of $328 million, or $0.70 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2006.
"Genworth made good progress expanding our wealth management and retirement fee businesses and driving steady international growth", said Michael D. Fraizer, chairman and chief executive. "We are affirming our outlook for full-year operating earnings per diluted share of $3.15 to $3.25; however, given the dynamics in the U.S. housing market, we feel a conservative stance is appropriate which could take full-year 2007 results to the lower end of the range."
Recent Highlights  Business Growth
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recent Highlights  Expense & Capital Management
 
 
 
 
Segment Results
Net operating income presented in the tables below excludes net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments, net of taxes, as well as the results from our discontinued operations. In the discussion of results, all percentage changes referenced exclude the impact of foreign exchange. The impact of foreign exchange on net operating income in the second quarter of 2007 was a favorable $10 million in the International segment.
A reconciliation from net operating income (loss) of segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income is included at the end of this press release.
 
Retirement and Protection
 
Retirement and Protection's net operating income increased 5 percent to $180 million. Managed money earnings grew 83 percent from AUM that more than tripled. Earnings in fee-based retirement products increased 89 percent as AUM grew to $5.9 billion or 74 percent, partially offset by lower service related fees. Spread-based retirement income earnings decreased 10 percent driven by a decline in account balances primarily related to the planned run-off of low return fixed annuities. The decline in account balances was partially offset by wider spreads. Institutional earnings of $10 million were down from the prior year, which included $3 million of additional investment income items. Life insurance earnings were $75 million, down slightly as new business growth
 
was more than offset by less favorable mortality compared to one year ago. LTC earnings increased 11 percent to $41 million and included $9 million of favorable investment income. Results in the prior year included $6 million of net favorable items. Excluding these items, LTC earnings were about flat as the performance of newer issued policies was offset by unfavorable performance of older blocks of business.
Managed money gross flows nearly tripled to $1.8 billion, and net flows were $1.3 billion, reflecting sales from AssetMark, distribution expansion and new product introductions. Income distribution series product sales increased 54 percent to $472 million from strong growth in the guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit for life product and favorable equity markets. Lower fixed annuity sales reflected both the unfavorable yield curve environment and competitive pressures. Institutional sales of $1.0 billion included $650 million of funding agreements backing notes. Total life sales grew 23 percent to $85 million, as universal life sales increased 75 percent, including $41 million of excess deposits. Term life sales declined 22 percent in a competitive pricing environment. LTC sales increased 6 percent to $54 million, driven by $5 million in sales from the recently introduced linked-benefits product that combines both LTC and universal life product features. Independent channel sales growth of 11 percent was partially offset by a decline in the career channel.
 
International
 
 
International's net operating income increased 11 percent from strong growth in Canada, Australia and payment protection. In Canada, net operating income was up 12 percent reflecting strong revenue growth, partially offset by normal loss seasoning. In Australia, net operating income increased 11 percent driven by strong double-digit revenue growth, partially offset by higher losses. Payment protection income increased 10 percent primarily from revenue growth. Income in both Australia and payment protection benefited from improved effective tax rates. Other international mortgage insurance results were flat as revenue growth was offset by higher losses and investments in new markets.
International mortgage insurance sales nearly doubled to $44.5 billion from higher flow sales in our established markets and higher bulk sales in Canada and Australia. In Canada, sales more than tripled with an increase in flow sales of 55 percent as the company continued to gain share in a growing market. Bulk sales increased $11.7 billion driven by two large transactions with short durations. In Australia, sales grew 64 percent driven by an 11 percent increase in flow sales and a $5.7 billion increase in bulk sales. Payment protection sales grew 59 percent on growth in central and southern Europe, new markets and approximately $200 million from a structured transaction with a lender in the U.K.
 
U.S. Mortgage Insurance
 
U.S. Mortgage Insurance's net operating income declined $6 million to $66 million, as a 28 percent increase in premiums was more than offset by higher losses. Paid claims increased $8 million, before-tax, driven by higher average claim amounts associated with higher loan balances. On a sequential basis, loss reserves increased $19 million to $270 million. This was principally the result of a 5 percent increase in flow delinquency counts primarily in Florida, California and Arizona. Delinquencies in the Great Lakes were stable.
Primary insurance in force (IIF) grew 33 percent to $135.5 billion as a result of strong sales and 78 percent flow persistency. U.S. flow mortgage insurance sales increased 61 percent reflecting the strong growth of the mortgage insurance market and disciplined execution of growth initiatives. Bulk sales increased $9.7 billion primarily from the execution of select portfolio transactions.
 
Corporate and Other
 
Corporate and Other's net operating loss was $37 million reflecting higher interest expense.
Investment Highlights
During the quarter, after-tax net investment income related to bond calls, commercial mortgage loan prepayments, limited partnership investments and commercial mortgage loan loss reserves was $16 million compared to $21 million in the prior year quarter. After-tax net investment losses in the second quarter of 2007 of $30 million included $9 million of impairments primarily related to a single credit in the media sector, and $21 million related to portfolio repositioning and other activities.
Stockholders' Equity
Stockholders' equity as of June 30, 2007 was $13.0 billion, or $29.31 per share, compared with $12.2 billion, or $26.84 per share, as of June 30, 2006. Stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, as of June 30, 2007 was $12.4 billion, or $28.07 per share, compared with $12.0 billion, or $26.33 per share, as of June 30, 2006.
Share Repurchases
During the quarter, Genworth repurchased 21.2 million shares at a weighted average price of $36.08 per share. As of June 30, 2007, Genworth had the authority to repurchase approximately $100 million in 2007.
The timing of future share repurchases under the company's stock repurchase program will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Common stock acquired through the repurchase program will be held as treasury shares until such time as they may be reissued or retired by the company.
 
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading financial security company meeting the retirement, longevity and lifestyle protection, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers. It has a presence in more than 25 countries. For more information, visit genworth.com.
Conference Call and Financial Supplement Information
This press release and the second quarter 2007 financial supplement are now posted on the company's website. Investors are encouraged to review all of these materials.
Genworth will conduct a conference call on July 27 from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. (ET) to discuss the quarter's results and outlook. The conference call will be accessible via telephone and the Internet. The dial-in number for Genworth's July 27 conference call is 1-866-875-7108 or 1-706-634-9180 (outside the U.S.), passcode 6329775. To participate in the call by webcast, register at http://investor.genworth.com at least 15 minutes prior to the webcast to download and install any necessary software.
The webcast will be archived on the company's website and a replay of the call will be available at 1-800-642-1687 or 1-706-645-9291 (outside the U.S.); passcode 6329775. The replay will be available through August 10, 2007.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income." Our chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income. We define net operating income (loss) as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. We exclude net investment gains (losses) and infrequent or unusual non-operating items because we do not consider them to be related to the operating performance of our segments and Corporate and Other activities. A significant component of our net investment gains (losses) are the result of credit-related impairments and credit-related gains and losses, the timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment gains (losses) are often subject to our discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income if, in our opinion, they are not indicative of overall operating trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we
 
believe that net operating income, and measures that are derived from or incorporate net operating income, are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because they identify the income attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income may differ from the definitions used by other companies. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income for the periods presented in this press release. The table at the end of this press release reflects net operating income (loss) as determined in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, , and a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of our segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income for the three months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006.
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information
Due to the unpredictable nature of the items excluded from the company's definition of net operating income, the company is unable to reconcile its outlook for net operating income to net income presented in accordance with GAAP.
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "expense ratio" as a measure of productivity. The company defines adjusted expense ratio as acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues, excluding the effects of the company's managed money and payment protection insurance businesses. The managed money and payment protection insurance businesses are excluded from this ratio as its expense base is comprised of varying levels of non-deferrable acquisition costs. Management believes that the expense ratio analysis enhances understanding of the productivity of the company. However, the adjusted expense ratio as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues. The tables at the end of this press release include a reconciliation of the adjusted expense ratio, as defined, to the GAAP measure.
Definition of Selected Operating Performance Measures
Management regularly monitors and reports a production volume metric referred to as "sales," which is a measure commonly used in the insurance industry as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. "Sales" refers to (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life insurance, long term care insurance and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, linked-benefits, spread-based and variable annuity products; (3) gross and net flows for our managed money business which represents gross flows net of redemptions; (4) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where we can earn a fee for administrative services only business, for payment protection insurance; (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented; and (6) written premiums net of cancellations for our Mexican insurance operations. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, written premiums, premiums equivalents
 
and new insurance written to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period. This operating measure enables the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for our managed money business. Assets under management for our managed money business represent third-party assets under management that are not consolidated in our financial statements. The company considers assets under management for our managed money business to be a measure of the company's operating performance because it represents a measure of the size of our business at a specific date, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
Contact Information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Dear Investor,
You will note that this second quarter supplement has some new disclosures in an effort to provide additional transparency into our financial trends. In U.S. Mortgage Insurance, we added additional metrics reflecting growth, loss, and portfolio quality. In Payment Protection, we have added regional sales data, and finally, we added details to our residential mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities investment holdings backed by sub-prime loans on page 55.
In addition, a reminder that the sale of our group life and health insurance business was final as of May 31, 2007.
Once again, thank you for your continued interest in Genworth Financial and please feel free to call one of us with any questions or comments.
Regards,
Alicia Charity
Vice President
Investor Relations
804-662-2248
Linnea Olsen
Director
Investor Relations
804-662-2536
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This financial supplement includes the non-GAAP
(1)
financial measure entitled "net operating income." Our chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income. We define net operating income (loss) as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. We exclude net investment gains (losses) and infrequent or unusual non-operating items because we do not consider them to be related to the operating performance of our segments and Corporate and Other activities. A significant component of our net investment gains (losses) are the result of credit-related impairments and credit-related gains and losses, the timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment gains (losses) are often subject to our discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income if, in our opinion, they are not indicative of overall operating trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income in accordance with GAAP, we believe that net operating income, and measures that are derived from or incorporate net operating income, are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because they identify the income attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The table on page 8 of this report reflects net operating income (loss) as determined in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, , and a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of our segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006. This financial supplement includes other non-GAAP measures management believes enhances the understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. These additional non-GAAP measures are on pages 58 through 62 of this financial supplement.
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information
Selected Operating Performance Measures
This financial supplement contains selected operating performance measures including "sales," "assets under management," "insurance in-force" or "risk in-force" which are commonly used in the insurance and investment industries as measures of operating performance.
Management regularly monitors and reports the sales metrics as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. Sales refers to (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life insurance, long-term care insurance and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, linked-benefits, spread-based and variable products; (3) gross flow and net flows, which represent gross flows less redemptions, for our managed money business; (4) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where we earn a fee for administrative services only business, for payment protection insurance; (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented; and (6) written premiums net of cancellations for our Mexican insurance operations. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods.
The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums, premium equivalents and new insurance written to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for our managed money business, insurance in-force and risk in-force. Assets under management for our managed money business represent third-party assets under management that are not consolidated in our financial statements. Insurance in-force for our life insurance, international mortgage insurance and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. Risk in-force for our international mortgage insurance and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure that recognizes that the loss on any particular mortgage loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the underlying property. The company considers assets under management for our managed money business, insurance in-force and risk in-force to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of the size of our business at a specific date, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
These operating measures enable the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Managed Money results represent AssetMark Investment Services, Inc., Genworth Financial Asset Management, Inc., Genworth Financial Advisers Corporation, Genworth Financial Trust Company and Capital Brokerage Corporation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Institutional products are sold through specialized brokers and investment brokers as well as directly to the contractholder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The loss and expense ratios included above are calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Analysis for Change in Accounting:
During the fourth quarter of 2006, approximately $73 million of premiums related to certain reinsurance assumed business were reclassified from reinsurance accounting to the deposit method of accounting. This change in accounting also resulted in reclassifications in the investment income, benefits and other changes in policyholder reserves and interest expense captions on the income statement, but had no impact on income or net operating income in the fourth quarter of 2006. The fourth quarter 2006 reclassification to the deposit method of accounting presented on page 42 was treated as a cumulative catch-up for the previous three quarters of 2006.
To better facilitate the analysis of PPI's sales, revenue and expense trends, the above represents all 2006 quarterly income statements and sales data on a basis consistent with these reinsurance assumed arrangements being accounted for under the deposit method of accounting. This change in accounting had no impact on income from continuing operations or net operating income for all periods presented.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The loss and expense ratios included above are calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yields for fixed maturities and equity securities are based on amortized cost and cost, respectively. Yields for securities lending activity, which is included in other investments, are calculated net of the corresponding securities lending liability. All other yields are based on average carrying values.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Operating ROE
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating return on equity" or "operating ROE." The company defines operating ROE as net operating income divided by average ending stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in average ending stockholders' equity. Management believes that analysis of operating ROE enhances understanding of the efficiency with which the company deploys its capital. However, operating ROE as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income divided by average ending stockholders' equity.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Expense Ratio
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "expense ratio" as a measure of productivity. The company defines expense ratio as acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues, excluding the effects of the company's managed money and payment protection insurance businesses. The managed money and payment protection insurance businesses are excluded from this ratio as their expense bases are comprised of varying levels of non-deferrable acquisition costs. Management believes that the expense ratio analysis enhances understanding of the productivity of the company. However, the expense ratio as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Premiums
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core premiums" as a measure of premium growth. The company defines core premiums as earned premiums less premiums on run-off and Travel Insurance blocks in our payment protection insurance business, premiums from our retirement incomespread-based business and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. The retirement incomespread-based premiums are excluded in this measure primarily because these are single premiums and are not an indication of future premiums. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates are excluded in this measure to present periods on a comparable exchange rate. Management believes that analysis of core premiums enhances understanding of premium growth of the company. However, core premiums as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP earned premiums.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Yield
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core yield" as a measure of investment yield. The company defines core yield as the investment yield adjusted for those items that are not recurring in nature. Management believes that analysis of core yield enhances understanding of the investment yield of the company. However, core yield as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP investment yield.
 
 
 
Industry Ratings
Our principal life insurance subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
Our mortgage insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
The A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch ratings are not designed to be, and do not serve as, measures of protection or valuation offered to investors. These financial strength ratings should not be relied on with respect to making an investment in our securities.
A.M. Best states that its "A+" (Superior) rating is assigned to those companies that have, in its opinion, a superior ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The "A+" (Superior) rating is the second-highest of fifteen ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from "A++" to "S."
S&P states that an insurer rated "AA" (Very Strong) has very strong financial security characteristics that outweigh any vulnerabilities, and is highly likely to have the ability to meet financial commitments. The "AA" range is the second-highest of the four ratings ranges that meet these criteria, and also is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by S&P, which range from "AAA" to "R." A plus (+) or minus (-) shows relative standing in a rating category. Accordingly, the "AA" and "AA-" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of S&P's 20 ratings categories. The short-term "A-1" rating is the highest rating and shows the capacity to meet financial commitments is strong. Within this category, the designation of a plus sign (+) indicates capacity to meet its financial commitments is extremely strong.
 
 
Industry Ratings (Continued)
Moody's states that insurance companies rated "Aa" (Excellent) offer excellent financial security. Moody's states that companies in this group constitute what are generally known as high-grade companies. The "Aa" range is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by Moody's, which range from "Aaa" to "C." Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. Accordingly, the "Aa2" and "Aa3" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Moody's 21 ratings categories. Short-term rating "P1" is the highest rating and shows superior ability for repayment of short-term debt obligations.
Fitch states that AA'' (Very Strong) rated insurance companies are viewed as possessing very strong capacity to meet policyholder and contract obligations. Risk factors are modest, and the impact of any adverse business and economic factors is expected to be very small. The AA'' rating category is the second-highest of eight financial strength rating categories, which range from AAA'' to D.'' The symbol (+) or (-) may be appended to a rating to indicate the relative position of a credit within a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the AAA'' category or to ratings below the CCC'' category. Accordingly, the AA'' and AA-'' ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Fitch's 24 ratings categories.
DBRS states that long-term debt rated AA is of superior credit quality, and protection of interest and principal is considered high. In many cases they differ from long-term debt rated AAA only to a small degree. Given the extremely restrictive definition DBRS has for the AAA category, entities rated AA are also considered to be strong credits, typically exemplifying above-average strength in key areas of consideration and unlikely to be significantly affected by reasonably foreseeable events.
A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's, Fitch and DBRS review their ratings periodically and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current ratings in the future. Other agencies may also rate our company or our insurance subsidiaries on a solicited or an unsolicited basis.
On April 4, 2007, A.M. Best upgraded Continental Life Insurance Company from an "A-" to "A." In addition, the outlook was changed from positive to stable.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading financial security company meeting the retirement, longevity and lifestyle protection, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers. It has a presence in more than 25 countries. For more information, visit www.genworth.com.
Inquiries:
Alicia Charity, 804-662-2248
alicia.charity@genworth.com
Linnea Olsen, 804-662-2536
linnea.olsen@genworth.com
 


