FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20070201165629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 1, 2007, Genworth Financial, Inc. issued (1) a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2006, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and (2) a financial supplement for the quarter ended December 31, 2006, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibits) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
Item 9.01(d). Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following materials are furnished as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Richmond, VA (February 1, 2007)  Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) today reported net income for the fourth quarter of 2006 of $373 million, or $0.81 per diluted share. Net income for the fourth quarter of 2005 was $307 million, or $0.64 per diluted share. Net income for the full year of 2006 was $1,328 million, or $2.83 per diluted share, compared to net income of $1,221 million, or $2.52 per diluted share, for the full year of 2005.
 
Net operating income for the fourth quarter of 2006 was $367 million, or $0.80 per diluted share, compared to net operating income of $300 million, or $0.62 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2005. Net operating income for the full year of 2006 was $1,358 million, or $2.89 per diluted share, compared to net operating income of $1,222 million, or $2.52 per diluted share, for 2005.
Net operating income for the fourth quarter of 2006 included $6 million after-tax, or $.01 per diluted share, of favorable foreign exchange and a net $20 million benefit, after tax, or $.04 per diluted share, from a periodic update in the recognition of international mortgage insurance premium revenue and provision for losses.
"Genworth delivered soundly on our 2006 financial targets," said Michael D. Fraizer, chairman and chief executive. "We produced strong sales across our global platforms, exceeded our outlook for operating earnings per share growth and ended the year with an 11.3 percent operating return on equity. In addition, we took a disciplined approach to capital management by funding higher return growth, making selective acquisitions, executing on strategic business exits, and completing share repurchases."
Recent Highlights
 
 
 
 
Business Growth
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2007 Outlook
Genworth affirms its 2007 outlook for operating income of $3.15 to $3.25 per diluted share. Based on the upcoming resegmentation, which will be reported starting with first quarter results, operating income for the Retirement and Protection segment is estimated to grow 8  12 percent from $703 million in 2006. This excludes the group business, which will be reclassified as discontinued operations in the first quarter of 2007. International segment income is expected to grow 13  17 percent from $468 million in 2006 and domestic mortgage insurance income is estimated to increase 5  8 percent from $259 million in 2006. Corporate and Other is expected to report a loss of $145$155 million for the full year 2007.
Segment Results
Segment net operating income presented in the tables below excludes net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments. The discussion of segment net operating income is presented on an after-tax basis, and does not reflect the company's announced realignment of business segments. In the discussion of all results, the percentage changes, including net operating income, sales, NIW and unearned premium reserves, exclude the impact of foreign exchange. The impact of foreign exchange was $2 million in the Protection segment and $4 million in the Mortgage Insurance segment.
 
Protection
Segment net operating income
 
Sales
 
Fourth quarter Protection segment net operating income increased 6 percent from strong income growth in life insurance and payment protection, which offset lower LTC results. Life insurance income increased 5 percent from business growth and favorable taxes. LTC income declined $8 million; however, the prior year quarter included a $7 million favorable reserve adjustment related to benefit elections for a large group case. Underlying LTC income reflects growth and favorable loss experience in new business and $7 million from the acquisition of Medicare supplement provider Continental Life, offset by higher losses on older issued policies and declining investment yields. Payment protection income grew 48 percent reflecting growth in higher margin markets, a lower effective tax rate, and a $4 million net benefit primarily related to a settlement from an exited commercial relationship. Group income was up $3 million primarily from premium growth and lower expenses.
Total life sales increased 23 percent to $79 million, driven by a 70 percent increase in universal life sales that more than offset an 11 percent decline in term sales. Universal life sales in the quarter included an $8 million favorable adjustment from excess deposits made in prior quarters. Term life sales reflected a competitive pricing environment and a continued shift by brokerage general agents towards the sale of universal life products. Individual LTC sales increased 11 percent to $42 million reflecting growth in the independent sales channel that offset a decline in the career sales channel. Medicare supplement sales more than doubled to $7 million reflecting the addition of Continental Life. Payment protection sales grew 49 percent and included $155 million related to the acquisition of a block of policies. Group sales declined 12 percent, driven by a decline in non-medical products.
 
Retirement Income & Investments
Segment net operating income
 
Sales
 
Retirement Income and Investments income totaled $66 million, a $2 million decline from the fourth quarter of 2005, which included favorable investment items that were $20 million higher than the current quarter. Fee-based income increased 79 percent to $25 million primarily from strong growth in assets under management and $3 million from the acquisition of AssetMark. Spread-based retail income declined $12 million to $31 million in the quarter compared with the prior year quarter, which included favorable investment items that were $17 million higher than the current quarter. The current quarter included a $9 million benefit from a lower effective tax rate as well as a $3 million positive impact from wider spreads. This was more than offset by lower account balances associated with fixed annuity net outflows and $7 million higher amortization of deferred acquisition costs (DAC), mainly related to increased lapse rates on older, low-return fixed annuity blocks. Spread-based institutional income decreased $1 million compared to the prior year, which included favorable investment items that were $3 million higher than the current quarter. Current quarter results reflect widening spreads driven by the shift out of older, lower return GIC contracts to new funding agreements backing registered notes.
 
Fee-based sales more than doubled to $1.8 billion from strong managed money sales, reflecting wholesaler and producer expansion as well as $572 million of sales from AssetMark. Income distribution series sales also doubled to $400 million in the quarter driven by Lifetime Income Plus, a guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit for life product that is part of the income distribution series. Spread-based retail sales declined 25 percent reflecting an unfavorable yield curve environment that made alternative products more attractive. Spread-based institutional sales increased 67 percent to $885 million primarily from strong sales of funding agreements backing registered notes.
Assets under management increased by 35 percent from strong growth in fee-based products, the addition of over $9 billion of assets from the AssetMark acquisition and favorable equity market performance.
 
Mortgage Insurance
Segment net operating income
 
Sales
 
Mortgage insurance segment net operating income was up 39 percent. Net operating income included a $20 million benefit from a periodic update and methodology refinements to the international premium recognition curves partially offset by a periodic update to loss factors in Australia. These updates increased net income by $10 million in Australia, $5 million in Canada and $5 million in the U.S. related to the Australian reinsurance relationship for capital support.
International mortgage insurance net operating income, excluding these updates, was up 22 percent. In Canada, income was up 11 percent reflecting solid revenue growth. In Australia, net operating income increased 42 percent from double-digit revenue growth, $4 million from higher policy cancellations and a lower effective tax rate partially offset by higher losses principally from a limited number of distribution relationships. Europe and other geographies contributed $4 million versus $2 million in the prior year, primarily from growth across Europe and lower taxes. International flow NIW increased 9 percent from strong growth in flow sales in Canada and flow and bulk sales in Europe.
U.S. mortgage insurance net operating income, excluding the benefit from updating premium recognition, increased 21 percent to $57 million from strong premium growth and $7 million lower expenses partially offset by $3 million higher losses.
 
Primary IIF increased for the fourth sequential quarter to $113 billion reflecting strong bulk production in the quarter. Bulk NIW was $8.1 billion in the fourth quarter from attractive opportunities in the portfolio and GSE Alt-A bulk channels. U.S. flow NIW increased 10 percent to $7.2 billion.
Corporate and Other
 
Corporate and Other net operating loss was $8 million lower in the current quarter resulting from $6 million higher income from limited partnerships and $2 million of lower expenses.
 
Stockholders' Equity
Stockholders' equity as of December 31, 2006 was $13.3 billion, or $30.09 per share, compared with $13.3 billion, or $28.26 per share, as of December 31, 2005. Stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, as of December 31, 2006 was $12.2 billion, or $27.48 per share, compared with $11.9 billion, or $25.28 per share, as of December 31, 2005.
Share Repurchase
During the quarter, Genworth repurchased 10.1 million shares at a weighted average price of $32.11 per share. Genworth currently has the authority to repurchase an additional $500 million in 2007.
The timing of share repurchases under the company's stock repurchase program will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Common stock acquired through the repurchase program will be held as treasury shares and may be used for general corporate purposes, including reissuances in connection with acquisitions, employee stock option exercises or other employee stock plans.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading financial security company meeting the retirement, longevity and lifestyle protection, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, with a presence in more than 25 countries. For more information, visit .
www.genworth.com
 
Conference Call and Financial Supplement Information
This press release and the fourth quarter financial supplement are now posted on the company's website. Also posted on the company's website is a graphical depiction of the company's new segmentation that is effective beginning with the first quarter of 2007. Investors are encouraged to review all of these materials. Genworth will conduct a conference call on February 2 from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. (ET) to discuss the quarter's results and outlook. The conference call will be accessible via telephone and the Internet. The dial-in number for Genworth's February 2 conference call is 1-866-875-7108 or 1-706-634-9180 (outside the U.S.). To participate in the call by webcast, register at http://investor.genworth.com at least 15 minutes prior to the webcast to download and install any necessary software.
The webcast will be archived on the company's website. A replay of the call will be available at 1-800-642-1687 or 1-706-645-9291 (outside the U.S.); pass code 5929207. A downloadable podcast/MP3 file will be available within 24 hours of the earnings call. The webcast replay and file download will be available through February 16, 2007.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income." The company defines net operating income as net income from continuing operations excluding after-tax net investment gains (losses), which can fluctuate significantly from period to period, changes in accounting principles and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income for the periods presented in this press release.
Management believes that analysis of net operating income enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. However, net operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The tables at the end of this press release include a reconciliation of net income to net operating income.
Due to the unpredictable nature of the items excluded from the company's definition of net operating income, the company is unable to reconcile its outlook for net operating income to net income presented in accordance with GAAP.
During 2006, the company began allocating net investment gains (losses) to the segments in determining segment net income. The company excludes net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments, from segment net operating income for each of the segments. Other adjustments represent
 
amortization of deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets associated with the net investment gains (losses). During 2005, all net investment gains (losses) were recorded in Corporate and Other. For a reconciliation of segment net income to segment net operating income, see the company's fourth quarter 2006 financial supplement on the company's website at or in the company's Current Report on Form 8-K furnished on February 1, 2007.
www.genworth.com
This press release also includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating return on equity" or "operating ROE." The company defines operating ROE as net operating income divided by average stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in average stockholders' equity. Management believes that analysis of operating ROE enhances understanding of the efficiency with which the company deploys its capital. However, operating ROE as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income divided by average stockholders' equity. The tables at the end of this press release include a reconciliation of operating ROE to GAAP net income divided by average stockholders' equity. Due to the unpredictable nature of net income and average stockholders' equity excluding AOCI, the company is unable to reconcile its outlook for operating ROE to GAAP net income divided by average stockholders' equity.
Definition of Sales
The term "sales" as used in this press release means (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life insurance, long term care insurance, Medicare supplement insurance and group life and health insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, spread-based and variable products; (3) new deposits for managed assets; (4) written premiums, deposits and premium equivalents for third-party administered business, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations for payment protection insurance; (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented; and (6) written premiums net of cancellations for our Mexican insurance operations. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, written premiums and new insurance written to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period. This operating measure enables the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
:
Contact Information
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Dear Investor,
You will note that the fourth quarter financial supplement has several new disclosures in an effort to help you analyze Genworth's business trends. The changes include: (1) the financial impact of foreign currency translation on selected international income and sales; (2) additional financial data on our payment protection business; (3) loss ratios for long-term care and Medicare supplement businesses; and (4) detail on the premium recognition curve and loss factor update which impacted the mortgage insurance segment.
As a result of the business realignment we announced in January 2007, we will combine Retirement Income and Investments and the U.S. Protection businesses into the Retirement and Protection segment, and combine our payment protection and international mortgage insurance businesses into the International segment. U.S. Mortgage Insurance will be reported as a separate segment and we will continue to report Corporate and Other in its present form. The changes will be reflected beginning in the first quarter of 2007.
In January 2007, we also announced the sale of our Group Life and Health business. Beginning in the first quarter of 2007, this business will be reported as a discontinued operation. We anticipate this sale to close during the second quarter of 2007.
To assist investors, we will provide a financial supplement with historical financial information, which reflects the new segmentation, prior to our first quarter 2007 earnings release.
Once again, thank you for your continued interest in Genworth Financial and please feel free to call one of us with any questions or comments.
Alicia Charity
Vice President
Investor Relations
804-662-2248
Linnea Olsen
Director
Investor Relations
804-662-2536
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This financial supplement includes the non-GAAP
(1)
financial measure entitled "net operating income." The company defines net operating income as net income from continuing operations, excluding after-tax net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments, changes in accounting principles and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income for the periods presented in this financial supplement.
Management believes that analysis of net operating income enhances understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. However, net operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The table on page 7 of this report provides a reconciliation of net income to net operating income (as defined above) for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
During 2006, we began allocating net investment gains (losses) to the segments in determining segment net income. We exclude net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments, from segment net operating income for each of the segments. Other adjustments represent amortization of deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets associated with net investment gains (losses). During 2005, all net investment gains (losses) were recorded in Corporate and Other.
This financial supplement includes other non-GAAP measures management believes enhances the understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. These additional non-GAAP measures are on pages 48 through 51 of this financial supplement.
 
 
 
 
See page 48 herein for a reconciliation of GAAP Basis ROE to Operating ROE.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our term life insurance product represent annualized first-year premiums. Annualized first-year premiums are calculated as if premiums are consistently paid for the full period of the sale even if they were actually paid for only a portion of such period. Sales from our universal life product represent annualized first-year deposits and excess deposits.
 
 
 
 
Sales from our long-term care products represent annualized first-year premiums. Annualized first-year premiums are calculated as if premiums are consistently paid for the full period of the sale even if they were actually paid for only a portion of such period.
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our payment protection insurance business represent total written premiums, deposits and premium equivalents for third-party administered business, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, during the specified period.
Beginning in 2006, our Mexican insurance operations were reported within the payment protection insurance business. All quarters presented have been revised to combine our Mexican insurance operations with payment protection insurance. The revision has also been made to reflect the impact on Corporate and Other where our Mexican insurance operations results were previously reported. Sales from our Mexican insurance operations represent net written premium, net of cancellations.
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Analysis for Change in Accounting:
During the fourth quarter of 2006, approximately $73 million of premiums related to certain reinsurance assumed arrangements were reclassified as deposits under the deposit method of accounting. This change in accounting also resulted in reclassifications in the investment income, benefits and other changes in policyholder reserves and interest expense captions on the income statement, but had no impact on segment net income or segment net operating income in the fourth quarter of 2006. The fourth quarter 2006 reclassification to the deposit method of accounting presented on page 21 was treated as a cumulative catch-up for the previous three quarters of 2006.
To better facilitate the analysis of PPI's sales, revenue and expense trends, the above represents all 2006 and 2005 quarterly income statements and sales data on a basis consistent with these reinsurance assumed arrangements being accounted for under the deposit method of accounting. This change in accounting had no impact on segment net income or segment net operating income for all periods presented.
 
 
 
Sales from our group life and health insurance products represent annualized first-year premiums. Annualized first-year premiums are calculated as if premiums are consistently paid for the full period of the sale even if they were actually paid for only a portion of such period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales from our life-contingent spread-based retail products represent annualized first-year premiums. Annualized first-year premiums are calculated as if premiums are consistently paid for the full period of the sale even if they were actually paid for only a portion of such period. Sales from our non-life-contingent spread-based retail products represent new and additional premiums/deposits.
 
 
 
Sales from our fee-based products represent new and additional premiums/deposits.
 
 
 
 
Sales from our spread-based institutional products represent new and additional premiums/deposits. These products are sold through specialized brokers and investment brokers as well as directly to the contractholder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales represent new insurance written. New insurance written represents the original principal balance of mortgages covered by newly issued mortgage insurance during the specified period.
 
 
 
Sales represent new insurance written. New insurance written represents the original principal balance of mortgages covered by newly issued mortgage insurance during the specified period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yields for fixed maturities and equity securities are based on amortized cost and cost, respectively. Yields for securities lending activity, which is included in other investments, are calculated net of the corresponding securities lending liability. All other yields are based on average carrying values.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition of Loss Ratio Before Impact of Adjustments
The results and ratios "before impact of adjustments" are non-GAAP measures based on financial information not in accordance with GAAP. The adjustments included on this page include the impact of a cumulative adjustment of earned premiums, with a related amortization of deferred acquisition costs adjustment, and the increase to losses due to an update of loss factors. The cumulative adjustment of earned premiums is the result of a study to update the amortization pattern of unearned premiums based on historical experience and estimated expected future expiration of risk. Management believes the loss ratios before the impact of the adjustments enhances understanding of our loss experience of our Mortgage Insurance business. However, the loss ratios "before impact of adjustments" should not be viewed as a substitute for the loss ratios calculated based on GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Operating ROE
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating return on equity" or "operating ROE." The company defines operating ROE as net operating income divided by average ending stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in average ending stockholders' equity. Management believes that analysis of operating ROE enhances understanding of the efficiency with which the company deploys its capital. However, operating ROE as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income divided by average ending stockholders' equity.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Expense Ratio
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "expense ratio" as a measure of productivity. The company defines expense ratio as acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues, excluding the effects of the company's payment protection insurance business. The payment protection insurance business is excluded from this ratio as its expense base is comprised of varying levels of non-deferrable acquisition costs. Management believes that the expense ratio analysis enhances understanding of the productivity of the company. However, the expense ratio as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Premiums
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core premiums" as a measure of premium growth. The company defines core premiums as earned premiums less premiums on a run-off block in our payment protection insurance business and less premiums from our spread-based retail business. The spread-based retail premiums are excluded in this measure primarily because these are single premiums and are not an indication of future premiums. Management believes that analysis of core premiums enhances understanding of premium growth of the company. However, core premiums as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP earned premiums.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Yield
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core yield" as a measure of investment yield. The company defines core yield as the investment yield adjusted for those items that are not recurring in nature. Management believes that analysis of core yield enhances understanding of the investment yield of the company. However, core yield as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP investment yield.
 
 
 
Industry Ratings
Our principal life insurance subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
Our mortgage insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
The A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch ratings are not designed to be, and do not serve as, measures of protection or valuation offered to investors. These financial strength ratings should not be relied on with respect to making an investment in our securities.
A.M. Best states that its "A+" (Superior) rating is assigned to those companies that have, in its opinion, a superior ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The "A+" (Superior) rating is the second-highest of fifteen ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from "A++" to "S".
S&P states that an insurer rated "AA" (Very Strong) has very strong financial security characteristics that outweigh any vulnerabilities, and is highly likely to have the ability to meet financial commitments. The "AA" range is the second-highest of the four ratings ranges that meet these criteria, and also is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by S&P, which range from "AAA" to "R." A plus (+) or minus (-) shows relative standing in a rating category. Accordingly, the "AA" and "AA-" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of S&P's 20 ratings categories. The short-term "A-1" rating is the highest rating and shows the capacity to meet financial commitments is strong. Within this category, the designation of a plus sign (+) indicates capacity to meet its financial commitments is extremely strong.
 
 
Industry Ratings (continued)
Moody's states that insurance companies rated "Aa" (Excellent) offer excellent financial security. Moody's states that companies in this group constitute what are generally known as high-grade companies. The "Aa" range is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by Moody's, which range from "Aaa" to "C." Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. Accordingly, the "Aa2" and "Aa3" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Moody's 21 ratings categories. Short-term rating "P1" is the highest rating and shows superior ability for repayment of short-term debt obligations.
Fitch states that "AA" (Very Strong) rated insurance companies are viewed as possessing very strong capacity to meet policyholder and contract obligations. Risk factors are modest, and the impact of any adverse business and economic factors is expected to be very small. The "AA" rating category is the second-highest of eight financial strength rating categories, which range from "AAA" to "D." The symbol (+) or (-) may be appended to a rating to indicate the relative position of a credit within a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the "AAA" category or to ratings below the "CCC" category. Accordingly, the "AA" and "AA-" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Fitch's 24 ratings categories.
DBRS states that long-term debt rated AA is of superior credit quality, and protection of interest and principal is considered high. In many cases they differ from long-term debt rated AAA only to a small degree. Given the extremely restrictive definition DBRS has for the AAA category, entities rated AA are also considered to be strong credits, typically exemplifying above-average strength in key areas of consideration and unlikely to be significantly affected by reasonably foreseeable events.
A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's, Fitch and DBRS review their ratings periodically and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current ratings in the future. Other agencies may also rate our company or our insurance subsidiaries on a solicited or an unsolicited basis.
On June 2, 2006, A.M. Best removed Continental Life Insurance Company of Brentwood, Tennessee from under review and upgraded the financial strenght ratings to A- (excellent) from B++ (very good). The outlook for the rating is positive.
On October 25, 2006, Fitch Ratings and Moody's Investor Services assigned a rating to Private Residential Mortgage Insurance Corporation (PRMIC). PRMIC has been reactivated in order to insure certain types of loans that would not be permitted under Genworth Mortgage Insurance Corporation existing monoline insurance charter.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading financial security company meeting the retirement, longevity and lifestyle protection, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, with a presence in more than 25 countries. For more information, visit www.genworth.com.
Inquiries:
Genworth Financial, Inc.
Jean Peters, 804-662-2693
jean.peters@genworth.com
Alicia Charity, 804-662-2248
alicia.charity@genworth.com
Linnea Olsen, 804-662-2536
linnea.olsen@genworth.com
 


