FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20080108163118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
On January 2, 2008, Scott R. Lindquist provided notice of his resignation as Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) of Genworth Financial, Inc. (the "Corporation"), effective as of February 8, 2008. Mr. Lindquist is leaving the Corporation to join Farmers Insurance Group of Companies, based in Los Angeles, California, as its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Patrick B. Kelleher, age 50, has been appointed Acting Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) of the Corporation effective February 8, 2008. Mr. Kelleher will continue to serve as the Corporation's Senior Vice President  Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer).
Mr. Kelleher has been the Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation since March 2, 2007 and a Senior Vice President since the end of January 2007. Prior to joining the Corporation, Mr. Kelleher had been the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Transamerica Reinsurance in Charlotte, North Carolina, a reinsurance provider and division of Transamerica Occidental Life Insurance Company, which is a member of AEGON Group, a life insurance pension company. He had served in this capacity since 1998. Prior thereto, Mr. Kelleher had been with Manulife Financial where he led its life and financial reinsurance business from 1996 to 1998 and where he served as the chief financial officer of the reinsurance division from 1994 to 1996 and as an insurance products leader from 1992 to 1994. From 1980 to 1992, Mr. Kelleher was with the Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada where he held various positions. Mr. Kelleher is a member of the Certified General Accountants Association of Canada, a Fellow of the Society of Actuaries, and a Fellow of the Canadian Institute of Actuaries. He received a Bachelor's degree from Franklin & Marshall College.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


