FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20080424162919.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 24, 2008, Genworth Financial, Inc. issued (1) a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and (2) a financial supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibits) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following materials are furnished as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Genworth Financial Reports First Quarter Net Operating Income Of $0.56 Per Diluted Share
Income From Continuing Operations of $0.27 Per Diluted Share
Richmond, VA (April 24, 2008)  Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) today reported income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2008 of $116 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, compared with $314 million, or $0.69 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2007. Net operating income for the first quarter of 2008 was $244 million, or $0.56 per diluted share, compared to net operating income of $340 million, or $0.75 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2007.
First quarter net investment losses of $128 million, net of tax and amortization of deferred acquisition costs (DAC), included $121 million of impairments, net of tax, $75 million of which related to sub-prime and Alt-A residential mortgage and asset-backed securities, and $13 million of hedging ineffectiveness on income distribution series products.
 
 
"Genworth had a challenging quarter with weakness in U.S. housing and financial markets, which impacted results in our U.S. Mortgage Insurance and other domestic product lines, partly offset by solid performance in our international platforms," said Michael D. Fraizer, chairman and chief executive officer. "Recent market and business trends have reinforced the cautious outlook we conveyed to investors in February, and as a result, we are lowering our outlook for full year 2008 operating earnings per diluted share to a range of $2.25 to $2.65. We remain focused on executing key strategic initiatives to position Genworth for improved future performance."
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment Results
Net operating income presented in the tables below excludes net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments, net of taxes, as well as the results from discontinued operations. In the discussion of International results, all references to percentage changes exclude the impact of foreign exchange. The impact of foreign exchange on net operating income in the first quarter of 2008 was a favorable $25 million.
 
 
A reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income is included at the end of this press release.
Retirement and Protection
 
 
Retirement and Protection earnings decreased 12 percent reflecting a decline in life insurance earnings, the impact of equity market volatility and lower fixed annuity AUM. Wealth management earnings grew 20 percent from a 16 percent increase in average AUM. Net flows remained positive, although down significantly from a year ago, as a result of lower sales and increased redemptions associated with equity market conditions.
Retirement income fee-based earnings declined $5 million reflecting equity market declines that resulted in higher death benefit reserves and accelerated amortization of DAC. In addition, third party service fees were $3 million lower than in the prior year quarter. Income distribution series product sales and AUM both increased over 40 percent.
Retirement income spread-based earnings declined $5 million primarily from 10 percent lower fixed annuity AUM. Sales more than doubled from focused distribution strategies supported by increased wholesaling and improved competitiveness of fixed annuities as compared with bank certificates of deposit.
Life insurance earnings were $65 million. Favorable term life mortality was more than offset by lower persistency on policies coming out of the level-premium period, $4 million higher funding costs associated with the securitization of life reserves and a $4 million unfavorable policy reserve system coding correction. Universal life sales decreased five percent, as 18 percent growth in annual first-year deposits was more than offset by a decline in excess deposits. Term life sales declined 21 percent in a highly competitive market environment.
 
 
Long term care earnings were $38 million reflecting strong new business performance, continued expense productivity, favorable terminations, and $6 million related to an update in factors associated with mortality notifications, partially offset by old block claims performance. Individual LTC sales grew seven percent to $44 million, with strong growth in the career channel, which benefited from the AARP distribution relationship, partially offset by a six percent decrease in independent channel sales.
Institutional earnings were $11 million reflecting stable account values and a product mix shift between guaranteed investment contracts and floating rate funding agreements. In the prior year, results included $3 million of bond call, prepayment and limited partnership distributions.
International
 
 
International earnings increased 10 percent to $160 million reflecting solid performance from established platforms. The mortgage insurance unearned premium reserve increased 21 percent to $3.4 billion. Flow NIW was lower in each platform reflecting a combination of factors including global liquidity constraints, cautious lender origination stances towards high loan-to-value (LTV) lending, slowing of some economies and proactive actions taken by Genworth to limit targeted exposures and underwriting risks. Given these factors, flow NIW is expected to be below 2007 levels for the remainder of the year.
In Canada, earnings grew 15 percent driven by strong revenue growth, partially offset by increased losses from seasoning of larger blocks in a slowing home price appreciation environment. Flow NIW declined 30 percent as a result of lower levels of high LTV mortgage originations during the quarter. Strong historical levels of home price appreciation have created affordability challenges particularly among first time homebuyers. In addition, product and underwriting guideline changes were made during the quarter in view of the economic outlook, which also reduced sales.
 
In Australia, earnings increased 11 percent from strong revenue growth and lower losses, partially offset by a higher tax rate. The loss ratio declined both sequentially and year over year to 41 percent reflecting actions taken to improve experience with select distribution relationships. Flow NIW declined 17 percent, from a modest decline in mortgage originations and reduced levels of mortgage securitizations. The prior year quarter also included a NIW catch-up benefit of about $1 billion from a delay in client sales reporting.
Other international mortgage insurance earnings were break-even, a reduction of $3 million from the prior year, reflecting slower expansion in newer markets and increased loss reserves in Spain. Several risk management actions have been taken in Spain, which represents about two percent of international risk in force, reflecting market and economic conditions as well as tightening liquidity. Flow NIW decreased 59 percent reflecting declining new business in Europe where the company has taken a conservative stance. In addition, regulatory delays or limitations have slowed some new country new business efforts.
Payment protection earnings increased 14 percent to $38 million from strong revenue growth partially offset by higher taxes. Total payment protection sales remained relatively flat. Sales in established regions, outside of the U.K. and Ireland, grew 10 percent. In the U.K. and Ireland, sales declined, reflecting flat levels of consumer lending and lower single-premium sales pending anticipated clarifications of related new business regulations. Structured transaction sales grew 47 percent, primarily with lenders in Canada.
U.S. Mortgage Insurance
 
 
U.S. Mortgage Insurance had a $36 million net operating loss in the quarter. Strong 27 percent revenue growth was more than offset by higher incurred losses. Sequentially, reserves increased $175 million primarily from higher average flow reserve per delinquency and a 14 percent increase in delinquencies from the fourth quarter. Underlying factors impacting the reserve build included increases centered around loss development associated with the 2007 book year mortgages, alternative products such as Alt-A and A minus, high loan balance states concentrated in Florida, and prime bulk products.
Paid claims were $84 million before taxes in the first quarter. This reflects a $46 million increase from the first quarter of 2007 and $19 million sequentially. The average paid claim was $42,400, up from $32,200 a year ago, reflecting higher loan balances in recent book years and a shift of claims to higher loan balance states.
Lender captive reinsurance provided $19 million of benefit before taxes during the quarter, primarily related to the 2006 book year. Movement toward attachment of both the 2006 and 2007 book years accelerated during the quarter and, as a result, lender captive reinsurance benefits are expected to increase in the latter half of 2008 and 2009. Significant resources and initiatives are dedicated to active management of in force business given the challenging housing market. These efforts include increased customer outreach and loss mitigation efforts to help keep borrowers in their homes.
Flow NIW more than doubled to $15.0 billion from strong mortgage insurance market penetration. Flow persistency increased to 83 percent from 78 percent a year ago. Strong persistency and NIW resulted in a 41 percent increase in flow risk in force. Prime bulk NIW was minimal during the quarter, as the market has contracted. During the quarter, Genworth announced exits from Alt-A, and A minus loans, and in April, has announced further restrictions on interest only loans as well as loans with LTV greater than 90 percent in declining markets. On April 24
th
, Genworth announced an approximately 20 percent rate increase on its flow business.
 
Corporate and Other
 
The Corporate and Other net operating loss was driven by $16 million of additional tax expense, partially offset by lower expenses and higher investment income. Additional tax benefits in future quarters are expected to bring Genworth's total effective tax rate based upon operating income to between 28 percent and 29 percent for the full year.
Investments & Hedging
First quarter net investment losses of $128 million, net of tax and other offsets, included $121 million of impairments, $75 million of which related to sub-prime and Alt-A residential mortgage and asset-backed securities, net of tax. The impairments of the sub-prime and Alt-A securities were nearly all related to securities rated A and below, and were the result of adverse changes in the present value of estimated cash flows of the underlying collateral. These changes are required to be reported as impairment losses valued at estimated fair market values as of March 31, 2008, and reflect a highly illiquid market for such securities.
Retirement income fee-based net income included a $13 million decline from hedge ineffectiveness related to volatility in the equity markets. Hedging is used to manage the risk associated with living benefit guarantees for the income distribution series products.
Stockholders' Equity
Stockholders' equity as of March 31, 2008 was $12.7 billion, or $29.41 per share, compared with $13.3 billion, or $30.43 per share, as of March 31, 2007. Stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), as of March 31, 2008 was $12.8 billion, or $29.49 per share, compared with $12.2 billion, or $27.89 per share, as of March 31, 2007.
 
Share Repurchases
The company repurchased $76 million, or approximately 3 million shares, during the first quarter under its current program.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE:GNW) is a leading public Fortune 500 global financial security company. Genworth has $114 billion in assets and employs approximately 7,000 people in 25 countries. Its products and services help meet the investment, protection, retirement and lifestyle needs of over 15 million customers. Genworth operates through three segments: Retirement and Protection, International and U.S. Mortgage Insurance. Its products and services are offered through financial intermediaries, advisors, independent distributors and sales specialists. Genworth Financial, which traces its roots back to 1871, became a public company in 2004 and is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia. For more information, visit genworth.com.
Conference Calls and Financial Supplement Information
This press release and the first quarter 2008 financial supplement are now posted on the company's website. Investors are encouraged to review all of these materials.
Genworth will conduct a conference call on April 25 from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. (ET) to discuss the quarter's results and outlook. The conference call will be accessible via telephone and the Internet. The dial-in number for Genworth's April 25 conference call is 1-877-548-7907 or 1-719-325-4853 (outside the U.S.), passcode 6628614. To participate in the call by webcast, register at http://investor.genworth.com at least 15 minutes prior to the webcast to download and install any necessary software.
The webcast will be archived on the company's website and a replay of the call will be available at 1-888-203-1112 or 1-719-457-0820 (outside the U.S.) passcode 6628614. The replay will be available through May 9, 2008.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income." The chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income. The company defines net operating income (loss) as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments
 
and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. This metric excludes these items because the company does not consider them to be related to the operating performance of its segments and Corporate and Other activities. A significant component of the net investment gains (losses) is the result of impairments and credit-related gains and losses, the timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment gains (losses) are often subject to Genworth's discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income if, in the company's opinion, they are not indicative of overall operating trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income in accordance with GAAP, the company believes that net operating income, and measures that are derived from or incorporate net operating income, are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because they identify the income attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income may differ from the definitions used by other companies. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income for the periods presented in this press release other than a $14 million after-tax expense recorded in the first quarter of 2007 related to reorganization costs. The table at the end of this press release reflects net operating income (loss) as determined in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, , and a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and 2007.
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information
Due to the unpredictable nature of the items excluded from the company's definition of net operating income, the company is unable to reconcile its outlook for net operating income to net income presented in accordance with GAAP.
Definition of Selected Operating Performance Measures
Management regularly monitors and reports a production volume metric referred to as "sales," which is a measure commonly used in the insurance industry as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. "Sales" refers to (1) annualized
 
first-year premiums for term life insurance, long term care insurance and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, linked-benefits, spread-based and variable annuity products; (3) gross and net flows for the wealth management business which represent gross flows net of redemptions; (4) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where we can earn a fee for administrative services only business, for payment protection insurance; (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented; and (6) written premiums, net of cancellations, for the Mexican insurance operations. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums, premium equivalents and new insurance written to be measures of the company's operating performance because they represent measures of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than measures of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for the wealth management business. Assets under management for the wealth management business represent third-party assets under management that are not consolidated in the financial statements. Insurance in-force for the life insurance, international mortgage insurance and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. Risk in-force for the international and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure that recognizes that the loss on any particular mortgage loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the underlying property. The company considers assets under management for its wealth management business to be measures of the company's operating performance because they represent measures of the size of the business at a specific date, rather than measures of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
These operating measures enable the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
:
Contact Information
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This financial supplement includes the non-GAAP
(
1)
financial measure entitled "net operating income." Our chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income. We define net operating income (loss) as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. We exclude net investment gains (losses) and infrequent or unusual non-operating items because we do not consider them to be related to the operating performance of our segments and Corporate and Other activities. A significant component of our net investment gains (losses) are the result of credit- related impairments and credit-related gains and losses, the timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment gains (losses) are often subject to our discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income if, in our opinion, they are not indicative of overall operating trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income in accordance with GAAP, we believe that net operating income, and measures that are derived from or incorporate net operating income, are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because they identify the income attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income (loss) is not a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The table on page 7 of this report reflects net operating income (loss) as determined in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, , and a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of our segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and 2007. This financial supplement includes other non-GAAP measures management believes enhances the understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. These additional non-GAAP measures are on pages 61 through 65 of this financial supplement.
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information
Selected Operating Performance Measures
This financial supplement contains selected operating performance measures including "sales," "assets under management," "insurance in-force" or "risk in-force" which are commonly used in the insurance and investment industries as measures of operating performance.
Management regularly monitors and reports the sales metrics as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. Sales refers to (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life insurance, long-term care insurance and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, linked-benefits, spread-based and variable products; (3) gross flows and net flows, which represent gross flows less redemptions, for our wealth management
(2)
business; (4) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where we earn a fee for administrative services only business, for payment protection insurance; (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented; and (6) written premiums, net of cancellations, for our Mexican insurance operations. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods.
The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums, premium equivalents and new insurance written to be measures of the company's operating performance because they represent measures of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than measures of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for our wealth management business, insurance in-force and risk in-force. Assets under management for our wealth management business represent third-party assets under management that are not consolidated in our financial statements. Insurance in-force for our life insurance, international mortgage insurance and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. Risk in-force for our international mortgage insurance and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure that recognizes that the loss on any particular mortgage loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the underlying property. The company considers assets under management for our wealth management business, insurance in-force and risk in-force to be measures of the company's operating performance because they represent measures of the size of our business at a specific date, rather than measures of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
These operating measures enable the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management results represent AssetMark Investment Services, Inc., Genworth Financial Asset Management, Inc., Genworth Financial Advisers Corporation, Genworth Financial Trust Company and Capital Brokerage Corporation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Institutional products are sold through specialized brokers and investment brokers, as well as directly to the contractholder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Estimated Fair Value by Vintage and Rating as of March 31, 2008:
 
 
Estimated Fair Value by Vintage and Rating as of December 31, 2007:
 
Net Unrealized Losses by Vintage and Rating as of March 31, 2008:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the fair value of these investments by pricing source as of the date indicated:
 
 
 
 
Commercial Mortgage Loan Information by Vintage
(loan amounts in millions)
As of March 31, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Operating ROE
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating return on equity" or "operating ROE." The company defines operating ROE as net operating income divided by average ending stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) in average ending stockholders' equity. Management believes that analysis of operating ROE enhances understanding of the efficiency with which the company deploys its capital. However, operating ROE as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income divided by average ending stockholders' equity.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Expense Ratio
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "expense ratio" as a measure of productivity. The company defines expense ratio as acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues, excluding the effects of the company's wealth management and payment protection Insurance businesses. The wealth management and payment protection insurance businesses are excluded from this ratio as their expense bases are comprised of varying levels of non-deferrable acquisition costs. Management believes that the expense ratio analysis enhances understanding of the productivity of the company. However, the expense ratio as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues.
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Premiums
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core premiums" as a measure of premium growth. The company defines core premiums as earned premiums less premiums from our retirement incomespread-based business and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. The retirement incomespread-based premiums are excluded in this measure primarily because these are single premiums and are not an indication of future premiums. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates are excluded in this measure to present periods on a comparable exchange rate. Management believes that analysis of core premiums enhances understanding of premium growth of the company. However, core premiums as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP earned premiums.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Yield
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core yield" as a measure of investment yield. The company defines core yield as the investment yield adjusted for those items that are not recurring in nature. Management believes that analysis of core yield enhances understanding of the investment yield of the company. However, core yield as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP investment yield.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our principal life insurance subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, Standard and Poors (S&P), Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
Our mortgage insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
 
The A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch ratings are not designed to be, and do not serve as, measures of protection or valuation offered to investors. These financial strength ratings should not be relied on with respect to making an investment in our securities.
A.M. Best states that its "A+" (Superior) rating is assigned to those companies that have, in its opinion, a superior ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The "A+" (Superior) rating is the second-highest of fifteen ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from "A++" to "F."
S&P states that an insurer rated "AA" (Very Strong) has very strong financial security characteristics that outweigh any vulnerabilities, and is highly likely to have the ability to meet financial commitments. The "AA" range is the second-highest of the four ratings ranges that meet these criteria, and also is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by S&P, which range from "AAA" to "R." A plus (+) or minus (-) shows relative standing in a rating category. Accordingly, the "AA" and "AA-" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of S&P's 21 ratings categories. The short-term "A-1" rating is the highest rating and shows the capacity to meet financial commitments is strong. Within this category, the designation of a plus sign (+) indicates capacity to meet its financial commitments is extremely strong. An obligor rated "mxAAA" has a very strong capacity to meet its financial commitments relative to that of other Mexican obligors. The "mxAAA" rating is the highest enterprise credit rating assigned on S&P's CaVal national scale.
 
 
Industry Ratings (continued)
Moody's states that insurance companies rated "Aa" (Excellent) offer excellent financial security. Moody's states that companies in this group constitute what are generally known as high-grade companies. The "Aa" range is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by Moody's, which range from "Aaa" to "C." Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. Accordingly, the "Aa2" and "Aa3" ratings are the third-and fourth-highest of Moody's 21 ratings categories. Short-term rating "P-1" is the highest rating and shows superior ability for repayment of short-term debt obligations. Issuers or issues rated "Aaa.mx" demonstrate the strongest creditworthiness relative to other issuers in Mexico.
Fitch states that "AA" (Very Strong) rated insurance companies are viewed as possessing very strong capacity to meet policyholder and contract obligations, risk factors are modest, and the impact of any adverse business and economic factors is expected to be very small. The "AA" rating category is the second-highest of eight financial strength rating categories, which range from "AAA" to "C." The symbol (+) or (-) may be appended to a rating to indicate the relative position of a credit within a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the "AAA" category or to ratings below the "CCC" category. Accordingly, the "AA" and "AA-" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Fitch's 21 ratings categories. The "AAA(mex)" rating denotes the highest rating assigned within the scale for Mexico. The rating is assigned to the policyholder obligations of the "best" insurance entities relative to all other issuers or issues in Mexico, across all industries and obligation types.
DBRS states that long-term debt rated "AA" is of superior credit quality, and protection of interest and principal is considered high. In many cases they differ from long-term debt rated "AAA" only to a small degree. Given the extremely restrictive definition DBRS has for the "AAA" category, entities rated "AA" are also considered to be strong credits, typically exemplifying above-average strength in key areas of consideration and unlikely to be significantly affected by reasonably foreseeable events.
A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's, Fitch and DBRS review their ratings periodically and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current ratings in the future. Other agencies may also rate our company or our insurance subsidiaries on a solicited or an unsolicited basis.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading financial security company meeting the retirement, longevity and lifestyle protection, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, with a presence in more than 25 countries. For more information, visit www.genworth.com.
Inquiries:
Alicia Charity, 804-662-2248
Alicia.Charity@genworth.com
Kelly Groh, 804-281-6321
Kelly.Groh@genworth.com
 


