FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20081219152400.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
On December 18, 2008, Genworth Financial, Inc. ("Genworth" or the "Company") announced actions being taken to advance the Company's strategic goals in response to the current economic downturn. These actions include the elimination of approximately 1,000 jobs globally.
Genworth expects to record a pre-tax charge of approximately $45 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 for severance, outplacement and other costs associated with the plan for workforce reduction and other restructuring actions. The plan is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2009. Approximately $40 million of the severance costs associated with these activities will result in future cash expenditures.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


