FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20081114095554.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On November 12, 2008, Genworth Financial, Inc. (the "Company") borrowed an aggregate of $930 million under its two revolving credit facilities that mature in 2012. The Company intends to use the borrowings along with other sources of liquidity for the repayment of outstanding holding company debt (including the Company's senior notes maturing in 2009) at maturity and/or the purchase and retirement of outstanding debt prior to maturity or for other general corporate purposes.
Of the $930 million borrowed, $465 million was borrowed under the Company's Amended and Restated Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of August 13, 2007 (the "2007 Credit Agreement") and $465 million was borrowed under the Company's Amended and Restated Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of May 25, 2006 (the "2006 Credit Agreement" and together with the 2007 Credit Agreement, the "Credit Agreements"). All amounts under the 2007 Credit Agreement are due on August 13, 2012 and all amounts under the 2006 Credit Agreement are due on May 25, 2012 (as extended pursuant to the terms of the 2006 Credit Agreement), unless, in either case, the commitments are terminated earlier either at the request of the Company or upon the occurrence of an event of default. Following the $930 million borrowing, and after taking into account the $172 million of commitments under the 2007 Credit Agreement that are currently being used for a letter of credit issued primarily for the benefit of one of the Company's U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries and the $140 million of Lehman Brothers-related commitments that may not be honored (as discussed below), the aggregate amount available under the credit facilities is approximately $750 million.
The principal amounts borrowed under each Credit Agreement will initially bear interest at the prime rate, as announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City, which will be due and payable on the last day of each calendar quarter and on the date the principal amount under such Credit Agreement is due and payable. In accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreements, the Company intends to convert the interest rate on the borrowings to a LIBOR-based rate shortly.
Affiliates of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which previously filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York, are lenders under the Credit Agreements and had committed to provide $70 million under each Credit Agreement but did not fund their pro rata shares of the borrowings.
For a description of the terms of the 2006 Credit Agreement, see the disclosures in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 31, 2006, and for the 2007 Credit Agreement, see the disclosures in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on August 15, 2007. The descriptions of the Credit Agreements do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the Credit Agreements filed as exhibits to the relevant Current Report on Form 8-K. Each of the foregoing documents and disclosures is incorporated by reference herein.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


