FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20080814162719.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The condensed consolidated financial statements of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Ltd, an indirect subsidiary of Genworth Financial, Inc., as of June 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, are included in Exhibit 99.1 to Item 9.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibit) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing. This information may be included or incorporated by reference in registration statements or reports filed under the Securities Act, or the Exchange Act, in connection with the issuance of asset-backed securities by one or more third parties.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following material is furnished as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited interim financial information has not been reviewed by an independent registered public accounting firm.
 
 
 
Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Ltd ("Genworth Mortgage" or the "Company" as appropriate) offers mortgage insurance products in Australia and New Zealand and is headquartered in Sydney, Australia. In particular, the Company offers primary mortgage insurance, known as "lenders mortgage insurance," or LMI, and portfolio credit enhancement policies. The principal product is LMI, which is generally single premium business and provides 100% coverage of the loan amount in the event of a mortgage default.
The Company's condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") and rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") disclosure requirements for interim financial information. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete consolidated financial statements. Preparing financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results could differ from those estimates. These condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments considered necessary by management to present a fair statement of the financial position, results of operations, and cash flow for the periods presented. The results reported in these condensed consolidated financial statements should not be regarded as necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for the entire year. The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and related notes contained in our 2007 year end financial statements on Form 8-K furnished on March 27, 2008.
The Company's management has determined that the Company has one reportable operating segment, mortgage insurance.
Genworth Mortgage, formerly GE Mortgage Insurance Company Pty Ltd, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Holdings Pty Ltd and was incorporated in Australia on November 10, 2003. The ultimate parent company of Genworth Mortgage is Genworth Financial, Inc. ("Genworth"). Genworth is a company incorporated in Delaware on October 23, 2003. GE Mortgage Insurance Company Pty Ltd changed its name to Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Ltd on November 28, 2005.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. The accompanying financial statements include Genworth Financial Mortgage Indemnity Limited and are prepared on a consolidated basis. All intercompany transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements.
 
Recently adopted
Fair Value Measurements
As of January 1, 2008, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 157, . This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Additionally, on January 1, 2008, we elected the partial adoption of SFAS No. 157 under the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Staff Position ("FSP") FAS 157-2, which amends SFAS No. 157 to allow an entity to delay the application of this statement until January 1, 2009 for certain non-financial assets and liabilities. Under the provisions of the FSP, we will delay the application of SFAS No. 157 for fair value measurements used in the impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and eligible non-financial assets and liabilities included within a business combination. In January 2008, FASB also issued proposed FSP FAS 157-c that would amend SFAS No. 157 to clarify the principles on fair value measurement of liabilities. Management is monitoring the status of this proposed FSP for any impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Fair Value Measurements
 
As defined in SFAS No. 157, fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We hold fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments, which are carried at fair value.
Fair value measurements are generally based upon observable and unobservable inputs. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our view of market assumptions in the absence of observable market information. We utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. SFAS No. 157 requires all assets and liabilities carried at fair value to be classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories:
 
 
 
Level 1 primarily consists of financial instruments whose value is based on quoted market prices such as actively traded mutual fund investments.
Level 2 includes those financial instruments that are valued by using industry-standard pricing methodologies, models or other valuation methodologies. These models are primarily industry-standard models that consider various inputs, such as interest rate, credit spread and foreign exchange rates for the underlying financial instruments. All significant inputs are observable, or derived from observable, information in the marketplace or are supported by observable levels at which transactions are executed in the marketplace. Financial instruments in this category primarily include: certain public and private corporate fixed maturity securities; government or agency securities; and certain mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities.
Level 3 is comprised of financial instruments whose fair value is estimated based on industry-standard pricing methodologies and internally developed models utilizing significant inputs not based on, nor corroborated by, readily available market information. This category primarily consists of certain less liquid fixed maturity securities where we cannot corroborate the significant valuation inputs with market observable data.
As of each reporting period, all assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, and considers factors specific to the asset or liability, such as the relative impact on the fair value as a result of including a particular input.
Our fixed maturity securities use Level 2 inputs for the determination of fair value. These fair values are obtained primarily from industry-standard pricing methodologies based on market observable information.
Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
As of January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 159, . This statement provides an option, on specified election dates, to report selected financial assets and liabilities, including insurance contracts, at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value for designated items are reported in income in the current period. The adoption of SFAS No. 159 did not impact our consolidated financial statements, as no items were elected for measurement at fair value upon initial adoption. We will continue to evaluate eligible financial assets and liabilities on their election dates. Any future elections will be disclosed in accordance with the provisions outlined in the statement.
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
 
Not yet adopted
In March 2008, FASB issued SFAS No. 161, . This statement requires enhanced disclosures about an entity's derivative and hedging activities. SFAS No. 161 will be effective for us on January 1, 2009. We do not expect SFAS No. 161 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activitiesan amendment of FASB Statement No. 133
In December 2007, FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, . This statement establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures certain items in a business combination, as well as disclosures about the nature and financial effects of a business combination. SFAS No. 141R will be effective for us on January 1, 2009 and will be applied to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the effective date. We do not expect SFAS No. 141R to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Business Combinations
In December 2007, FASB issued SFAS No. 160, . This statement establishes accounting and reporting standards for non controlling interests in a subsidiary and for deconsolidation of a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 will be effective for us on January 1, 2009 and will be applied prospectively as of the effective date. We do not expect SFAS No. 160 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statementsan amendment of ARB No. 51
 
Genworth Mortgage prepares financial statements for its regulator, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority ("APRA"), in accordance with the accounting practices prescribed by the regulator, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than U.S. GAAP. The main differences were as follows:
 
The Company's APRA net income after tax, capital base, minimum capital requirement and solvency ratio as of, and for the year ended were as follows:
 
The APRA solvency ratio is the combined amounts of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Ltd and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Genworth Financial Mortgage Indemnity Ltd.
Under the prudential regulation framework in Australia, mortgage insurers are required to establish a catastrophic risk charge defined as a 1 in 250 year event. The Company is required to maintain adequate capital to fund this charge, in addition to normal insurance liabilities, by ensuring that its capital base exceeds its minimum capital requirement at all times.
As of June 30, 2008, the APRA solvency ratio is 1.28.
 
The Company's ability to pay dividends to Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Holdings Pty Ltd is restricted to the extent the payment of dividends exceeds current year income. Any dividend above this level requires prior approval from APRA. In addition, any dividend payment must result in the Company continuing to meet the APRA minimum capital requirement.
 


