FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20080207163510.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 7, 2008, Genworth Financial, Inc. issued (1) a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2007, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and (2) a financial supplement for the quarter ended December 31, 2007, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibits) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following materials are furnished as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Genworth Financial Reports Fourth Quarter Net Operating Earnings Of $0.71 Per Diluted Share
Income From Continuing Operations of $0.41 Per Diluted Share
Richmond, VA (February 7, 2008)  Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) today reported income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2007 of $180 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, compared with $361 million, or $0.78 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2006. Income from continuing operations for the full year of 2007 was $1,154 million, or $2.58 per diluted share, compared to $1,283 million, or $2.73 per diluted share, for the full year of 2006.
Net operating income for the fourth quarter of 2007 was $314 million, or $0.71 per diluted share, compared to net operating income of $355 million, or $0.77 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2006. The full year net operating income was $1,373 million, or $3.07 per diluted share, up from $1,317 million, or $2.80 per diluted share, in 2006.
Fourth quarter included a $2 million reduction in the gain on the previously completed sale of the Employee Benefits Group and net investment losses of $134 million, net of tax and other offsets. These net investment losses included $123 million of impairments, $93 million of which related to sub-prime and Alt-A residential mortgage and asset-backed securities. The impairments of the sub-prime and Alt-A securities, which occurred solely in securities rated A or below, were the result of adverse changes in the present value of estimated cash flows of the underlying collateral which, in turn, are required to be reported as impairment losses valued at estimated fair market values as of December 31, 2007, which reflect a highly illiquid market for such securities.
 
"We have a cautious stance toward 2008 results, given the accelerating downturn in the U.S. housing market, slowing global economies and a shifting interest rate environment. We will navigate these issues, focus on sound business growth, optimize capital deployment and position Genworth for improved performance in 2009," said Michael D. Fraizer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "In December, we provided a wide outlook range of $2.65 to $3.15 operating earnings per share for 2008, given the high degree of market uncertainty. In view of current trends, we anticipate being at the lower end of that range for 2008, and plan to fully update our outlook at the end of the first quarter."
Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment Results
Net operating income presented in the tables below excludes net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments, net of taxes, as well as the results from discontinued operations. In the discussion of International results, all references to percentage changes exclude the impact of foreign exchange. The impact of foreign exchange on net operating income in the fourth quarter of 2007 was a favorable $26 million.
A reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income is included at the end of this press release.
 
Retirement and Protection
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retirement and Protection earnings of $174 million included $9 million net favorable adjustments from long term care, while the fourth quarter 2006 earnings of $184 million included approximately $18 million more favorable tax benefits.
Managed money earnings grew to $12 million stemming from 25 percent growth in AUM and the full quarter impact in 2007 of earnings from the AssetMark acquisition, which closed in late October 2006.
Retirement income fee-based earnings of $17 million reflected ongoing sales growth with underlying growth in AUM, offset by a $2 million decline in third-party service fees and weaker equity market performance. Sales of fee-based retirement income products increased 43 percent to $760 million, through increased market penetration in the wirehouse and independent broker dealer channels.
Retirement income spread-based earnings were $24 million, down $7 million. The prior year included a $5 million net benefit comprised of approximately $12 million of favorable tax benefits, partially offset by higher deferred acquisition cost amortization. Underlying results reflect lower fixed annuity AUM, offset in part by higher spreads. Retirement income spread-based sales were down 12 percent to $386 million, as the business maintained its pricing discipline in a highly competitive environment.
Institutional earnings dropped $1 million, as an increase in AUM was more than offset by narrower spreads.
Life earnings declined eight percent to $76 million. Revenue growth was more than offset by lower term life persistency that negatively impacted earnings by approximately $10 million. In addition, the prior year included $6 million of higher tax benefits. Universal life sales increased 70 percent, including eight percent growth in annual deposits and 94 percent growth in excess deposits. Term life sales declined 21 percent in a highly competitive environment.
 
Long term care (LTC) earnings were $36 million and reflected strong new business performance that was offset by lower terminations in the older LTC blocks. Results included a favorable reserve adjustment of $11 million from the completion of a project begun in the third quarter to correct overweight reserve factors, and a $4 million favorable refinement of the incurred but not reported claims estimate. In addition, results included an unfavorable $6 million premium adjustment associated with a reinsurance settlement. Individual LTC sales grew seven percent to $45 million, with growth in both the independent and career channels. Strong growth in the linked-benefits product contributed $10 million in sales for the quarter.
International
 
 
International earnings increased 10 percent, reflecting strong overall revenue growth of 23 percent to $767 million. Earnings growth included an $8 million net benefit from annual updates to international premium recognition curves and loss factors, as detailed in the table above. The discussion of segment results below exclude the impact of these annual updates.
In Canada, earnings grew 19 percent from strong revenue growth, partially offset by a slightly higher loss ratio, reflecting normal seasoning. Flow sales were up eight percent to $8.1 billion, and a large prime bulk transaction contributed the majority of the increase in bulk sales to $7.8 billion.
In Australia, earnings grew 19 percent excluding a $4 million catch up provision in 2006 for prior period policy cancellations. On a sequential quarter basis, Australia's loss ratio declined five points to 44 percent. Sales grew a modest two percent, with growth in the large national bank distribution channel partially offset by a decline in sales through mortgage managers.
 
Other International mortgage insurance earnings declined $2 million, excluding the impact of the premium recognition curve update. This reflected slow expansion in new countries (including Mexico, South Korea, Japan and Germany) and declining new business origination markets in Europe. This also reflects the company taking a more conservative stance in Ireland, the U.K. and Spain, with Spain showing higher loss development.
Payment protection earnings of $36 million were up seven percent, adjusted for a $4 million benefit in the prior year quarter, primarily related to an exited commercial relationship. Sales were strong in new markets in the Central and Southern regions from increased market penetration with existing customers.
U.S. Mortgage Insurance
 
U.S. Mortgage Insurance reported a $3 million net operating loss in the quarter. Premiums increased 26 percent and were more than offset by higher losses. Total losses increased by $132 million before taxes, including both higher paid claims and reserve increases. Primary paid claims were $65 million before taxes in the fourth quarter. This reflects an 81 percent increase from the fourth quarter of 2006 and 33 percent sequentially. The average primary paid claim was $39,200, up 32 percent from a year ago, reflecting higher loan balances in recent book years and a shift of claims to higher loan balance states. Total year paid claims were $193 million versus a mid-year 2007 forecast range of $160$185 million.
 
Increases of loss reserves were driven by 29 percent higher flow delinquencies versus the prior quarter. Delinquency increases were most pronounced in select products including Alt-A, A Minus and greater than 95 percent loan-to-value loans, as well as in certain geographies, particularly in Florida and California.
During the quarter, the business completed its third round of risk management actions, which included pricing and underwriting guideline changes, product shifts and geographic limitations.
Primary new insurance written increased 18 percent to $18.2 billion, reflecting mortgage insurance market growth. Flow persistency increased to 85 percent, which combined with new business, brought primary insurance in force to $157.6 billion.
Corporate and Other
 
The Corporate and Other net operating loss was driven by lower limited partnership distributions and higher interest expense.
Investments
Net investment income, net of tax and other offsets, related to bond calls, commercial mortgage loan prepayments and limited partnership investments was $9 million, compared to $19 million of similar activity in the prior year quarter.
Fourth quarter net investment losses of $134 million, net of tax and other offsets, included $123 million of impairments, $93 million of which related to sub-prime and Alt-A residential mortgage and asset-backed securities. The impairments of the sub-prime and Alt-A securities were limited to securities rated A and below, and were the result of adverse changes in the present value of estimated cash flows of the underlying collateral which, in turn, are required to be reported as impairment losses valued at estimated fair market values as of December 31, 2007, which reflect a highly illiquid market for such securities.
 
Stockholders' Equity
Stockholders' equity as of December 31, 2007 was $13.5 billion, or $30.92 per share, compared with $13.3 billion, or $30.09 per share, as of December 31, 2006. Stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, as of December 31, 2007 was $12.8 billion, or $29.25 per share, compared with $12.2 billion, or $27.48 per share, as of December 31, 2006.
Share Repurchases
During the quarter, the company settled its second quarter accelerated share repurchase program and received an additional 2.5 million shares. The company also repurchased approximately $24 million, or approximately one million shares, during the fourth quarter under its current program.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading financial security company meeting the retirement, longevity and lifestyle protection, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers. It has a presence in more than 25 countries. For more information, visit genworth.com.
Conference Calls and Financial Supplement Information
This press release and the fourth quarter 2007 financial supplement are now posted on the company's website. Investors are encouraged to review all of these materials.
Genworth will conduct a conference call on February 8 from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. (ET) to discuss the quarter's results and outlook. The conference call will be accessible via telephone and the Internet. The dial-in number for Genworth's February 8 conference call is 1-866-875-7108 or 1-706-634-9180 (outside the U.S.), passcode 31321803. To participate in the call by webcast, register at http://investor.genworth.com at least 15 minutes prior to the webcast to download and install any necessary software.
 
The webcast will be archived on the company's website and a replay of the call will be available at 1-800-642-1687 or 1-706-645-9291 (outside the U.S.) passcode 31321803. The replay will be available through February 22, 2008.
Following the earnings call, Genworth will host a separate conference call and webcast at 11 a.m. (ET) to provide additional information on operating metrics and analysis of the company's U.S. Mortgage Insurance business. The dial-in number will be 1-866-875-7108 or 1-706-634-9180 (outside the U.S.), passcode 33336144. To participate in the call by webcast, register at http://investor.genworth.com at least 15 minutes prior to the webcast to download and install any necessary software. The materials for this call will be posted on the company's website approximately 1 hour prior to the call.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income." The chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income. The company defines net operating income (loss) as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. This metric excludes these items because the company does not consider them to be related to the operating performance of its segments and Corporate and Other activities. A significant component of the net investment gains (losses) is the result of credit-related impairments and credit-related gains and losses, the timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment gains (losses) are often subject to Genworth's discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income if, in the company's opinion, they are not indicative of overall operating trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income in accordance with GAAP, the company believes that net operating income, and measures that are derived from or incorporate net operating income, are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because they identify the income attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income may differ from the definitions used by other companies. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income for the periods presented in this press release other than a $14 million after-tax expense recorded in the first quarter of 2007 related to reorganization costs. The table at the end of this press release reflects net operating income (loss) as determined in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, , and a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information
 
Due to the unpredictable nature of the items excluded from the company's definition of net operating income, the company is unable to reconcile its outlook for net operating income to net income presented in accordance with GAAP.
Definition of Selected Operating Performance Measures
Management regularly monitors and reports a production volume metric referred to as "sales," which is a measure commonly used in the insurance industry as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. "Sales" refers to (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life insurance, long term care insurance and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, linked-benefits, spread-based and variable annuity products; (3) gross and net flows for our managed money business which represent gross flows net of redemptions; (4) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where we can earn a fee for administrative services only business, for payment protection insurance; (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented; and (6) written premiums net of cancellations for the Mexican insurance operations. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums, premium equivalents and new insurance written to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
 
Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for the managed money business. Assets under management for the managed money business represent third-party assets under management that are not consolidated in the financial statements. Insurance in-force for the life insurance, international mortgage insurance and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. Risk in-force for the international and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure that recognizes that the loss on any particular mortgage loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the underlying property. The company considers assets under management for its managed money business to be a measure of the company's operating performance because it represents a measure of the size of the business at a specific date, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
These operating measures enable the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will," or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
:
Contact Information
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This financial supplement includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income." Our chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income. We define net operating income (loss) as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. We exclude net investment gains (losses) and infrequent or unusual non-operating items because we do not consider them to be related to the operating performance of our segments and Corporate and Other activities. A significant component of our net investment gains (losses) are the result of credit-related impairments and credit-related gains and losses, the timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment gains (losses) are often subject to our discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income if, in our opinion, they are not indicative of overall operating trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income in accordance with GAAP, we believe that net operating income, and measures that are derived from or in corporate net operating income, are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because they identify the income attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income (loss) is not a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income may differ from the definitions used by other companies. The table on page 7 of this report reflects net operating income (loss) as determined in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, , and a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of our segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. This financial supplement includes other non-GAAP measures management believes enhances the understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. These additional non-GAAP measures are on pages 63 through 67 of this financial supplement.
(1)
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information
Selected Operating Performance Measures
This financial supplement contains selected operating performance measures including "sales," "assets under management," "insurance in-force" or "risk in-force" which are commonly used in the insurance and investment industries as measures of operating performance.
Management regularly monitors and reports the sales metrics as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. Sales refers to (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life insurance, long-term care insurance and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, linked-benefits, spread-based and variable products; (3) gross flows and net flows, which represent gross flows less redemptions, for our managed money business; (4) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where we earn a fee for administrative services only business, for payment protection insurance; (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented; and (6) written premiums net of cancellations for our Mexican insurance operations. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods.
The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums, premium equivalents and new insurance written to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for our managed money business, insurance in-force and risk in-force. Assets under management for our managed money business represent third-party assets under management that are not consolidated in our financial statements. Insurance in-force for our life insurance, international mortgage insurance and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. Risk in-force for our international mortgage insurance and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure that recognizes that the loss on any particular mortgage loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the underlying property. The company considers assets under management for our managed money business, insurance in-force and risk in-force to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of the size of our business at a specific date, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
These operating measures enable the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Managed Money results represent AssetMark Investment Services, Inc., Genworth Financial Asset Management, Inc., Genworth Financial Advisers Corporation, Genworth Financial Trust Company and Capital Brokerage Corporation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Institutional products are sold through specialized brokers and investment brokers, as well as directly to the contractholder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition of Loss Ratio Before Impact of Adjustments
The results and ratios "before impact of adjustments" are non-GAAP measures based on financial information not in accordance with GAAP. The adjustments included on this page include the impact of the cumulative adjustment of earned premiums, with a related amortization of deferred acquisition costs adjustment, and the increase to losses due to an update of loss factors. The cumulative adjustment of earned premiums is the result of a study to update the amortization pattern of unearned premiums based on historical experience and estimated expected future expiration of risk. Management believes the loss ratios before the impact of the adjustments enhances understanding of our loss experience of our Mortgage Insurance business. However, the loss ratios "before impact of adjustments" should not be viewed as a substitute for the loss ratios calculated based on GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
The loss and expense ratios included above are calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Analysis for Change in Accounting:
During the fourth quarter of 2006, approximately $73 million of premiums related to certain reinsurance assumed business were reclassified from reinsurance accounting to the deposit method of accounting. This change in accounting also resulted in reclassifications in the investment income, benefits and other changes in policyholder reserves and interest expense captions on the income statement, but had no impact on income or net operating income in the fourth quarter of 2006. The fourth quarter 2006 reclassification to the deposit method of accounting presented on page 43 was treated as a cumulative catch-up for the previous three quarters of 2006.
To better facilitate the analysis of PPI's sales, revenue and expense trends, the above represents all 2006 quarterly income statements and sales data on a basis consistent with these reinsurance assumed arrangements being accounted for under the deposit method of accounting. This change in accounting had no impact on income from continuing operations or net operating income for all periods presented.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Growth MetricsU.S. Mortgage Insurance
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
 
The loss and expense ratios included above are calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed Securities Collateralized by Sub-prime Residential Mortgage Loans as of December 31, 2007:
 
Our sub-prime securities are principally backed by first lien mortgages. We do not have a significant exposure to second liens or option adjustable rate mortgages. We do have less than $1 million of mezzanine CDOs.
Gross Unrealized Losses by Vintage and Rating:
December 31, 2007
 
September 30, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed Securities Collateralized by Alt-A Residential Mortgage Loans as of December 31, 2007:
 
Gross Unrealized Losses by Vintage and Rating:
December 31, 2007
 
September 30, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yields for fixed maturities and equity securities are based on amortized cost and cost, respectively. Yields for securities lending activity, which is included in other invested assets, are calculated net of the corresponding securities lending liability. All other yields are based on average carrying values.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Operating ROE
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating return on equity" or "operating ROE." The company defines operating ROE as net operating income divided by average ending stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in average ending stockholders' equity. Management believes that analysis of operating ROE enhances understanding of the efficiency with which the company deploys its capital. However, operating ROE as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income divided by average ending stockholders' equity.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Expense Ratio
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "expense ratio" as a measure of productivity. The company defines expense ratio as acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues, excluding the effects of the company's Managed Money and Payment Protection Insurance businesses. The Managed Money and Payment Protection Insurance businesses are excluded from this ratio as their expense bases are comprised of varying levels of non-deferrable acquisition costs. Management believes that the expense ratio analysis enhances understanding of the productivity of the company. However, the expense ratio as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Premiums
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core premiums" as a measure of premium growth. The company defines core premiums as earned premiums less premiums on run-off and Travel Insurance blocks in our Payment Protection Insurance business, premiums from our Retirement IncomeSpread-Based business and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Retirement IncomeSpread-Based premiums are excluded in this measure primarily because these are single premiums and are not an indication of future premiums. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates are excluded in this measure to present periods on a comparable exchange rate. Management believes that analysis of core premiums enhances understanding of premium growth of the company. However, core premiums as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP earned premiums.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Yield
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core yield" as a measure of investment yield. The company defines core yield as the investment yield adjusted for those items that are not recurring in nature. Management believes that analysis of core yield enhances understanding of the investment yield of the company. However, core yield as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP investment yield.
 
 
 
 
Industry Ratings
Our principal life insurance subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, Standard and Poors (S&P), Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
Our mortgage insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody's and Fitch as follows:
 
 
The A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch ratings are not designed to be, and do not serve as, measures of protection or valuation offered to investors. These financial strength ratings should not be relied on with respect to making an investment in our securities.
A.M. Best states that its A+'' (Superior) rating is assigned to those companies that have, in its opinion, a superior ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The A+'' (Superior) rating is the second-highest of fifteen ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from A++'' to F.''
S&P states that an insurer rated "AA" (Very Strong) has very strong financial security characteristics that outweigh any vulnerabilities, and is highly likely to have the ability to meet financial commitments. The "AA" range is the second-highest of the four ratings ranges that meet these criteria, and also is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by S&P, which range from "AAA" to "R." A plus (+) or minus (-) shows relative standing in a rating category. Accordingly, the "AA" and "AA-" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of S&P's 21 ratings categories. The short-term "A-1" rating is the highest rating and shows the capacity to meet financial commitments is strong. Within this category, the designation of a plus sign (+) indicates capacity to meet its financial commitments is extremely strong. An obligor rated "mxAAA" has a very strong capacity to meet its financial commitments relative to that of other Mexican obligors. The "mxAAA" rating is the highest enterprise credit rating assigned on S&P's CaVal national scale.
 
 
Industry Ratings (continued)
Moody's states that insurance companies rated "Aa" (Excellent) offer excellent financial security. Moody's states that companies in this group constitute what are generally known as high-grade companies. The "Aa" range is the second-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by Moody's, which range from "Aaa" to "C." Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. Accordingly, the "Aa2" and "Aa3" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Moody's 21 ratings categories. Short-term rating "P1" is the highest rating and shows superior ability for repayment of short-term debt obligations. Issuers or issues rated "Aaa.mx" demonstrate the strongest creditworthiness relative to other issuers in Mexico.
Fitch states that "AA" (Very Strong) rated insurance companies are viewed as possessing very strong capacity to meet policyholder and contract obligations, risk factors are modest, and the impact of any adverse business and economic factors is expected to be very small. The "AA" rating category is the second-highest of eight financial strength rating categories, which range from "AAA" to "C." The symbol (+) or (-) may be appended to a rating to indicate the relative position of a credit within a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the "AAA" category or to ratings below the "CCC" category. Accordingly, the "AA" and "AA-" ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of Fitch's 21 ratings categories. The "AAA(mex)" rating denotes the highest rating assigned within the scale for Mexico. The rating is assigned to the policyholder obligations of the "best" insurance entities relative to all other issuers or issues in Mexico, across all industries and obligation types.
DBRS states that long-term debt rated "AA" is of superior credit quality, and protection of interest and principal is considered high. In many cases they differ from long-term debt rated "AAA" only to a small degree. Given the extremely restrictive definition DBRS has for the "AAA" category, entities rated "AA" are also considered to be strong credits, typically exemplifying above-average strength in key areas of consideration and unlikely to be significantly affected by reasonably foreseeable events.
A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's, Fitch and DBRS review their ratings periodically and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current ratings in the future. Other agencies may also rate our company or our insurance subsidiaries on a solicited or an unsolicited basis.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading financial security company meeting the retirement, longevity and lifestyle protection, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, with a presence in more than 25 countries. For more information, visit www.genworth.com.
Inquiries:
Alicia Charity, 804-662-2248
Alicia.Charity@genworth.com
Kelly Groh, 804-281-6321
Kelly.Groh@genworth.com
 


