FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20091110162810.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The condensed consolidated financial statements of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Limited, an indirect subsidiary of Genworth Financial, Inc., as of September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008, and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008, are included in Exhibit 99.1 to Item 9.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibit) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing. This information may be included or incorporated by reference in registration statements or reports filed under the Securities Act, or the Exchange Act, in connection with the issuance of asset-backed securities by one or more third parties.
 
The following material is furnished as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Nature of Business, Formation of Genworth Mortgage and Basis of Presentation
Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Limited ("Genworth Mortgage" or the "Company" as appropriate) offers mortgage insurance products in Australia and New Zealand and is headquartered in Sydney, Australia. In particular, the Company offers primary mortgage insurance, known as "lenders mortgage insurance," or LMI, and portfolio credit enhancement policies. The principal product is LMI, which is generally single premium business and provides 100% coverage of the loan amount in the event of a mortgage default.
The Company's condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") and rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") disclosure requirements for interim financial information. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete consolidated financial statements. These condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments considered necessary by management to present a fair statement of the financial position, results of operations and cash flow for the periods presented. The results reported in these condensed consolidated financial statements should not be regarded as necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for the entire year. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in our 2008 year end financial statements on Form 8-K furnished on March 30, 2009.
The Company's management has determined that the Company has one reportable operating segment, mortgage insurance.
Genworth Mortgage, formerly GE Mortgage Insurance Company Pty Limited, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Holdings Pty Limited and was incorporated in Australia on November 10, 2003. The ultimate parent company of Genworth Mortgage is Genworth Financial, Inc. ("Genworth"). Genworth was incorporated in Delaware on October 23, 2003. GE Mortgage Insurance Company Pty Limited changed its name to Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Limited on November 28, 2005.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. The accompanying financial statements include Genworth Financial Mortgage Indemnity Limited and are prepared on a consolidated basis. All intercompany transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Any material subsequent events have been considered for disclosure through November 10, 2009.
 
(2) Accounting Pronouncements
Recently adopted
The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
On July 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance related to the codification of accounting standards and the hierarchy of U.S. GAAP established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB")This accounting guidance established two levels of U.S. GAAP, authoritative and nonauthoritative. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification (the "Codification") is the source of authoritative, nongovernmental U.S. GAAP, except for rules and interpretive releases of the SEC, which are also sources of authoritative U.S. GAAP for SEC registrants. All other accounting literature is nonauthoritative. The adoption of this new accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
. 
Subsequent Events
On June 30, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance related to accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. This accounting guidance required the disclosure of the date through which an entity has evaluated subsequent events and the basis for that date. The adoption of this new accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments
On April 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance related to the recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments. This accounting guidance amended the other-than-temporary impairment guidance for debt securities and modified the presentation and disclosure requirements for other-than-temporary impairment disclosures for debt and equity securities. This accounting guidance also amended the requirement for management to positively assert the ability and intent to hold a debt security to recovery to determine whether an other-than-temporary impairment exists and replaced this provision with the assertion that we do not intend to sell or it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell a security prior to recovery. Additionally, this accounting guidance modified the presentation of other-than-temporary impairments for certain debt securities to only present the impairment loss in net income (loss) that represents the credit loss associated with the other-than-temporary impairment with the remaining impairment loss being presented in other comprehensive income (loss) ("OCI"). On April 1, 2009, we recorded a net cumulative effect adjustment of $865,332 to retained earnings with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
Interim Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments
On April 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance related to interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments. This accounting guidance amended the fair value disclosure requirements for certain financial instruments to require disclosures during interim reporting periods of publicly traded entities in addition to requiring them in annual financial statements. The adoption of this new accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly
On April 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance related to determining fair value when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased and identifying transactions that are not orderly. This accounting guidance provided additional guidance for determining fair value when the volume or level of activity for an asset or liability has significantly decreased and identified circumstances that indicate a transaction is not orderly. The adoption of this new accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 
Fair Value Measurements of Certain Nonfinancial Assets and Liabilities
On January 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance related to fair value measurements of certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities, such as impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. The adoption of this new accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
On January 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance related to disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. This statement required enhanced disclosures about an entity's derivative and hedging activities. The adoption of this new accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Business Combinations
On January 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance related to business combinations. This accounting guidance established principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures certain items in a business combination, as well as disclosures about the nature and financial effects of a business combination. The adoption of this new accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Noncontrolling Interest in Consolidated Financial Statements
On January 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance related to noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. This accounting guidance established accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary and for deconsolidation of a subsidiary. The adoption of this new accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Not yet adopted
In September 2009, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to fair value measurements and disclosures that will provide guidance on the fair value measurement in certain entities that calculate net asset value per share. This accounting guidance will be effective for us on October 1, 2009. We do not expect the adoption of this new accounting guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In August 2009, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to measuring liabilities at fair valueThis accounting guidance clarifies techniques for measuring the fair value of liabilities when quoted market prices for the identical liability are not available. This accounting guidance will be effective for us on October 1, 2009. We do not expect the adoption of this new accounting guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
. 
In June 2009, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to accounting for transfers of financial assets. This accounting guidance amends the current guidance on transfers of financial assets by eliminating the qualifying special-purpose entity concept, providing certain conditions that must be met to qualify for sale accounting, changing the amount of gain or loss recognized on certain transfers and requiring additional disclosures. This accounting guidance will be effective for us on January 1, 2010. We have not yet determined the impact this accounting guidance, once adopted, will have on our consolidated financial statements.
In June 2009, the FASB issued new accounting guidance that provides guidance for determining which enterprise, if any, has a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity and requires additional disclosures about involvement in variable interest entities. This accounting guidance will be effective for us on January 1, 2010. We have not yet determined the impact this accounting guidance, once adopted, will have on our consolidated financial statements.
 
(3) Investments
Other-Than-Temporary Impairments On Available-For-Sale Securities
As of each balance sheet date, we evaluate securities in an unrealized loss position for other-than-temporary impairments. For debt securities, we consider all available information relevant to the collectability of the security, including information about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts, when developing the estimate of cash flows expected to be collected. Estimating the cash flows expected to be collected is a quantitative and qualitative process that incorporates information received from third-party sources along with certain internal assumptions and judgments regarding the future performance of the underlying collateral. Where possible, this data is benchmarked against third-party sources.
Prior to adoption of new accounting guidance related to the recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments on April 1, 2009, we generally recognized an other-than-temporary impairment on debt securities in an unrealized loss position when we did not expect full recovery of value or did not have the intent and ability to hold such securities until they had fully recovered their amortized cost. The recognition of other-than-temporary impairments prior to April 1, 2009 represented the entire difference between the amortized cost and fair value with this difference being recorded in net income (loss) as an adjustment to the amortized cost of the security.
Beginning on April 1, 2009, we recognize other-than-temporary impairments on debt securities in an unrealized loss position when one of the following circumstances exists:
 
 
 
For other-than-temporary impairments recognized during the period, we present the total other-than-temporary impairments, the portion of other-than-temporary impairments included in OCI and the net other-than-temporary impairments as supplemental disclosure presented on the face of our consolidated statements of income.
Total other-than-temporary impairments are calculated as the difference between the amortized cost and fair value that emerged in the current period. For other-than-temporarily impaired securities where we do not intend to sell the security and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security prior to recovery, total other-than-temporary impairments are adjusted by the portion of other-than-temporary impairments recorded in OCI ("non-credit"). Net other-than-temporary impairments recorded in net income (loss) represent the credit loss on the other-than-temporarily impaired securities with the offset recorded as an adjustment to the amortized cost to determine the new amortized cost basis of the securities.
For securities that were deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired and a non-credit loss was recorded in OCI, the amount recorded as an unrealized gain (loss) represents the difference between the current fair value and the new amortized cost for each period presented. The unrealized gain (loss) on an other-than-temporarily impaired security is recorded in OCI.
To estimate the amount of other-than-temporary impairment attributed to credit losses on debt securities where we do not intend to sell the security and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security prior to recovery, we determine our best estimate of the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected from a security by discounting these cash flows by the current effective yield on the security prior to recording any other-than-temporary impairment. If the present value of the discounted cash flows is lower than the amortized cost of the security, the difference between the present value and amortized cost represents the credit loss associated with the security with the remaining difference between fair value and amortized cost recorded as a non-credit other-than-temporary impairment in OCI.
 
The evaluation of other-than-temporary impairments is subject to risks and uncertainties and is intended to determine the appropriate amount and timing for recognizing an impairment charge. The assessment of whether such impairment has occurred is based on management's best estimate of the cash flows expected to be collected at the individual security level. We regularly monitor our investment portfolio to ensure that securities that may be other-than-temporarily impaired are identified in a timely manner and that any impairment charge is recognized in the proper period.
Net Investment Income
Sources of net investment income for the periods presented were as follows:
 
Net Investment Gains (Losses)
The following table sets forth net investment gains (losses) for the periods indicated:
 
The aggregate fair value of securities sold at a loss during the three months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 was $20 million and $43 million, respectively, which was approximately 82% and 99%, respectively, of book value. The aggregate fair value of securities sold at a loss during the nine months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 was $23 million and $82 million, respectively, which was approximately 84% and 99%, respectively, of book value.
 
Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses)
Net unrealized gains and losses on investment securities classified as available-for-sale are reduced by deferred income taxes that would have resulted had such gains and losses been realized. Net unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment securities reflected as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of the dates indicated were as follows:
 
The change in net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investment securities reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the periods indicated was as follows:
 
Fixed Maturity Securities
As of September 30, 2009, the amortized cost or cost, gross unrealized gains and losses and fair value of the fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale were as follows:
 
 
As of December 31, 2008, the amortized cost or cost, gross unrealized gains and losses and fair value of the fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale were as follows:
 
 
The following table presents the gross unrealized losses and fair values of investment securities, aggregated by investment type and length of time that individual investment securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, as of September 30, 2009:
 
The investment securities in an unrealized loss position as of September 30, 2009 consisted of 71 securities and accounted for unrealized losses of $17 million. Of these unrealized losses of $17 million, 100% were investment grade (rated AAA through BBB). The unrealized losses on these securities have decreased during 2009 mainly due to tightening of credit spreads. No unrealized losses on other-than-temporarily impaired securities were included in these unrealized losses as of September 30, 2009.
 
Of the investment securities in an unrealized loss position for 12 months or more as of September 30, 2009, there were no securities 20% or more below cost and there were no securities below investment grade (rated BB+ and below). There were no other-than-temporarily impaired securities with a non-credit loss recorded in OCI.
The following table presents the gross unrealized losses and fair values of investment securities, aggregated by investment type and length of time that individual investment securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, as of December 31, 2008:
 
 
The scheduled maturity distribution of fixed maturity securities as of September 30, 2009 is set forth below. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers of securities may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties
.
 
As of September 30, 2009, $146 million of investments were subject to certain call provisions. Typically, call provisions provide the issuer the ability to redeem a security, prior to its stated maturity, at or above par.
Investment Concentrations
As of September 30, 2009, securities issued by finance and insurance industry groups and foreign state government represented approximately 43% and 40%, respectively, of the corporate fixed maturity securities portfolio held by the Company.
As of September 30, 2009, the Company held $370 million in corporate fixed maturity securities issued by the New South Wales Treasury Corporation, which comprised of 25% of total stockholder's equity. Additionally, the Company held $301 million in corporate fixed maturity securities issued by Queensland Treasury Corp and $190 million in corporate fixed maturity securities issued by Westpac Banking Corporation, which comprised 21% and 13%, respectively, of total stockholder's equity. No other single issuer exceeded 10% of total stockholder's equity.
(4) Fair Value Measurements
We hold fixed maturity securities which are carried at fair value. The vast majority of our fixed maturity securities use Level 2 inputs for the determination of fair value. These fair values are obtained primarily from industry-standard pricing methodologies based on market observable information. We also utilize internally developed pricing models to produce estimates of fair value primarily utilizing Level 2 inputs along with certain Level 3 inputs. The internally developed models include matrix pricing where we discount expected cash flows utilizing market interest rates obtained from market sources based on the credit quality and duration of the instrument to determine fair value. For securities that may not be reliably priced using internally developed pricing models, we estimate fair value using indicative market prices. These prices are indicative of an exit price, but the assumptions used to establish the fair value may not be observable, or corroborated by market observable information, and represent Level 3 inputs.
 
The following tables set forth our assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of the dates indicated:
 
The following tables present additional information about assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis and for which we have utilized significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs to determine fair value as of or for the dates indicated:
 
 
 
Realized and unrealized gains (losses) on Level 3 assets and liabilities are primarily reported in either net investment gains (losses) within the condensed consolidated statements of income or OCI within stockholder's equity based on the appropriate accounting treatment for the instrument.
Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net, represent the activity that occurred during the period that results in a change of the asset or liability but does not represent changes in fair value for the instruments held at the beginning of the period. Such activity consists of purchases and sales of fixed maturity securities.
The amount presented for unrealized gains (losses) for assets still held as of the reporting date primarily represents accretion on certain fixed maturity securities which were recorded in net investment gains (losses).
(5) Supplemental Cash Flow Information
A tax sharing liability of $36 million payable to Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Holdings Pty Limited, our immediate parent company, was recorded as a contribution of capital as of September 30, 2009.
 
(6) Statutory Accounting
Genworth Mortgage prepares financial statements for its regulator, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority ("APRA") in accordance with the accounting practices prescribed by the regulator, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than U.S. GAAP. The main differences were as follows:
 
 
 
 
The Company's APRA net income after tax, capital base, minimum capital requirement and solvency ratio as of and for the year ended December 31 were as follows:
 
The APRA solvency ratio is the combined amounts of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Limited and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Genworth Financial Mortgage Indemnity Limited.
Under the prudential regulation framework in Australia, mortgage insurers are required to establish a catastrophic risk charge defined as a 1 in 250 year event. The Company is required to maintain adequate capital to fund this charge, in addition to normal insurance liabilities, by ensuring that its capital base exceeds its minimum capital requirement at all times.
As of September 30, 2009, the APRA solvency ratio was 1.30.
The Company's ability to pay dividends to Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Holdings Pty Limited is restricted to the extent the payment of dividends exceeds current year income. Any dividend above this level requires prior approval from APRA. In addition, any dividend payment must result in the Company continuing to meet the APRA minimum capital requirement.
 


