FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20090518164554.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The condensed consolidated financial statements of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Ltd, an indirect subsidiary of Genworth Financial, Inc., as of March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, and for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, are included in Exhibit 99.1 to Item 9.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibit) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing. This information may be included or incorporated by reference in registration statements or reports filed under the Securities Act, or the Exchange Act, in connection with the issuance of asset-backed securities by one or more third parties.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following material is furnished as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Nature of Business, Formation of Genworth Mortgage and Basis of Presentation
Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Ltd ("Genworth Mortgage" or the "Company" as appropriate) offers mortgage insurance products in Australia and New Zealand and is headquartered in Sydney, Australia. In particular, the Company offers primary mortgage insurance, known as "lenders mortgage insurance," or LMI, and portfolio credit enhancement policies. The principal product is LMI, which is generally single premium business and provides 100% coverage of the loan amount in the event of a mortgage default.
The Company's condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") and rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") disclosure requirements for interim financial information. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete consolidated financial statements. These condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments considered necessary by management to present a fair statement of the financial position, results of operations, and cash flow for the periods presented. The results reported in these condensed consolidated financial statements should not be regarded as necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for the entire year. The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and related notes contained in our 2008 year end financial statements on Form 8-K furnished on March 30, 2009.
The Company's management has determined that the Company has one reportable operating segment, mortgage insurance.
Genworth Mortgage, formerly GE Mortgage Insurance Company Pty Ltd, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Holdings Pty Ltd and was incorporated in Australia on November 10, 2003. The ultimate parent company of Genworth Mortgage is Genworth Financial, Inc. ("Genworth"). Genworth is a company incorporated in Delaware on October 23, 2003. GE Mortgage Insurance Company Pty Ltd changed its name to Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Ltd on November 28, 2005.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. The accompanying financial statements include Genworth Financial Mortgage Indemnity Limited and are prepared on a consolidated basis. All intercompany transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements.
(2) Accounting Pronouncements
Recently adopted
Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
On January 1, 2009, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 161, . This statement requires enhanced disclosures about an entity's derivative and hedging activities. The adoption of SFAS No. 161 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activitiesan amendment of FASB Statement No. 133
Business Combinations
On January 1, 2009, we adopted SFAS No. 141R, . This statement establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures certain items in a business combination, as well as disclosures about the nature and financial effects of a business combination. The adoption of SFAS No. 141R did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Business Combinations
 
 
Noncontrolling Interest in Consolidated Financial Statements
On January 1, 2009, we adopted SFAS No. 160, . This statement establishes accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary and for deconsolidation of a subsidiary. The adoption of SFAS No. 160 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statementsan amendment of ARB No. 51
Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157
On January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB Staff Position ("FSP") FAS 157-2, which adopts SFAS No. 157, for fair value measurements of certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities, such as impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. The adoption of FSP FAS 157-2 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157,
Fair Value Measurements,
Not yet adopted
In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-4, . This FSP provides additional guidance for determining fair value when the volume or level of activity for an asset or liability has significantly decreased and identifies circumstances that indicate a transaction is not orderly. This FSP will be effective for us on April 1, 2009. We have not yet determined the impact the adoption of FSP FAS 157-4 will have on our consolidated financial statements.
Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly
In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2,. This FSP amends the other-than-temporary impairment guidance for debt securities and modifies the presentation and disclosure requirements for other-than-temporary impairment disclosures for debt and equity securities. The FSP amends the requirement for an entity to positively assert the ability and intent to hold a debt security to recovery to determine whether an other-than-temporary impairment exists and replaces this provision with the assertion that an entity does not intend to sell or it is not more likely than not that the entity will be required to sell a security prior to recovery. Additionally, the FSP modifies the presentation of other-than-temporary impairments for certain debt securities to only present the impairment loss within income that represents the credit loss associated with the other-than-temporary impairment with the remaining impairment loss being presented within other comprehensive income (loss) ("OCI"). This FSP will be effective for us on April 1, 2009. The adoption of FSP FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments
In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1, . This FSP amends the fair value disclosure requirements for certain financial instruments to require the disclosures during interim reporting periods of publicly traded entities in addition to annual financial statements. This FSP will be effective for us on April 1, 2009. The adoption of FSP FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments
(3) Statutory Accounting
Genworth Mortgage prepares financial statements for its regulator, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority ("APRA") in accordance with the accounting practices prescribed by the regulator, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than U.S. GAAP. The main differences are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's APRA net income after tax, capital base, minimum capital requirement and solvency ratio as of and for the year ended were as follows:
 
The APRA solvency ratio is the combined amounts of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Ltd and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Genworth Financial Mortgage Indemnity Limited.
Under the prudential regulation framework in Australia, mortgage insurers are required to establish a catastrophic risk charge defined as a 1 in 250 year event. The Company is required to maintain adequate capital to fund this charge, in addition to normal insurance liabilities, by ensuring that its capital base exceeds its minimum capital requirement at all times.
As of March 31, 2009, the APRA solvency ratio was 1.33.
The Company's ability to pay dividends to Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Holdings Pty Ltd is restricted to the extent the payment of dividends exceeds current year income. Any dividend above this level requires prior approval from APRA. In addition, any dividend payment must result in the Company continuing to meet the APRA minimum capital requirement.
 


