FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20101008103413.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
At a meeting held on October 7, 2010, upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Board of Directors of Genworth Financial, Inc. (the "Company") increased the size of the Board to ten directors and elected William H. Bolinder to serve as a new independent director. On October 7, 2010, the Board also appointed Mr. Bolinder to serve on the Board's Legal and Public Affairs Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Mr. Bolinder, age 67, retired in June 2006 from serving as President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of Acadia Trust N.A., positions he had held since 2003. He had previously been a member of the Group Management Board for Zurich Financial Services Group from 1994 to 2002. Mr. Bolinder joined Zurich American Insurance Company, USA in 1986 as Chief Operating Officer and became Chief Executive Officer in 1987. He has been a director of Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd. since December 2001. Mr. Bolinder was a director of Quanta Capital Holding Ltd. from January 2007 to October 2008. Mr. Bolinder has also served on the boards of the American Insurance Association, American Institute for Chartered Property Casualty Underwriting, Insurance Institute for Applied Ethics, Insurance Institute of America, Insurance Services Office, Inc. and the National Association of Independent Insurers.
As of the date of his election to the Board of Directors, Mr. Bolinder will participate in the Company's compensation plans for non-management directors, as described in the director compensation summary filed as Exhibit 10.42 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


