FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20100429172247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 29, 2010, Genworth Financial, Inc. issued (1) a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and (2) a financial supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibits) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following materials are furnished as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Richmond, VA (April 29, 2010)  Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) today reported results for the first quarter of 2010. Net income
1
, before provision for noncontrolling interests, was $212 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, compared with a net loss of $469 million, or $1.08 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2009. Net operating income
2
, before provision for noncontrolling interests, for the first quarter of 2010 was $147 million, or $0.30 per diluted share, compared to net operating income of $14 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2009.
Reflecting the company's reduction in ownership of Genworth MI Canada (MIC) in the third quarter of 2009 from 100 percent to 57.5 percent in connection with an initial public offering (IPO) transaction, Genworth's net income available to Genworth's common stockholders was $178 million, or $0.36 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2010. On this same basis, net operating income available to Genworth's common stockholders for the first quarter of 2010 was $114 million, or $0.23 per diluted share.
 
 
Genworth's results in the quarter included net operating income of $122 million from the Retirement and Protection segment and $91 million from the International segment. This was partially offset by lower net operating losses of $36 million in the U.S. Mortgage Insurance (U.S. MI) segment and a loss of $63 million in Corporate and Other. The impact of foreign exchange on net operating income in the first quarter of 2010 was a favorable $19 million.
Net investment losses, net of tax and other adjustments, decreased to $42 million from $483 million in the first quarter of 2009, and decreased on a sequential basis from $54 million in
 
 
the fourth quarter of 2009. Net unrealized investment losses, net of tax and other adjustments, declined to $0.9 billion from $4.1 billion in the prior year quarter.
Net income in the quarter included a $106 million tax benefit related to separation from the company's former parent recorded in the first quarter of 2010.
"Genworth's improved results demonstrate clear progress in our served markets around the world," said Michael D. Fraizer, chairman and chief executive officer. "Our decisive actions on loss mitigation, select product re-pricing and re-investing cash all contributed to earnings growth in the quarter. As we look ahead, we are positioned for strong growth and enhanced returns from new product introductions, distribution expansion and efficient capital management."
First Quarter Highlights
New Business Growth
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Power & Risk Positions
 
 
 
 
 
Capital Management & Flexibility
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment Results
Net operating income (loss) presented in the tables below excludes net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments, net of taxes. In the discussion of International results, all references to percentage changes exclude the impact of foreign exchange. The percentage changes including the impact of foreign exchange are included in a table at the end of this press release.
A reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income (loss) is included at the end of this press release.
Retirement and Protection
 
 
Retirement and Protection earned $122 million compared to $38 million a year ago. Consolidated U.S. life insurance companies ended the quarter with an estimated RBC ratio of approximately 385 percent
6
.
Life insurance earnings decreased to $37 million from $38 million a year ago as improved investment income and lower taxes were more than offset by less favorable mortality, lower persistency on policies coming out of the post level term period and a $5 million unfavorable correction related to the calculation of ceded reinsurance premiums. Total life sales reflected a mix shift to the new more capital efficient product suite as well as lower universal life (UL) excess deposits associated with the low interest rate environment. Sales from the combination of term life insurance and the new Colony
SM
TermUL product grew 26 percent versus the prior year and nine percent sequentially. The more capital efficient Colony
SM
TermUL product, which was launched in late 2009, demonstrated strong producer adoption.
 
 
 
LTC earnings declined $1 million to $40 million, as higher net investment income was more than offset by higher claims on old generation policies and a return to lower levels of policy terminations experienced historically. Individual LTC sales increased $7 million year over year, primarily reflecting growth in overall industry sales. Group LTC sales increased to $8 million in the quarter, up from $1 million a year ago, while linked benefit sales grew to $11 million, up from $5 million a year ago.
Wealth management earnings increased from $6 million to $11 million primarily from increased revenue associated with a 41 percent increase in AUM and also included a $2 million favorable tax item. Net flows were $504 million, representing the fourth consecutive quarter of positive net flows. This, combined with favorable market performance, resulted in a $1.2 billion sequential increase in AUM to $20.0 billion.
Retirement income fee-based earnings increased to $17 million from a $27 million loss in the prior year. Results in the prior year were significantly impacted by declines in the equity markets, which accelerated deferred acquisition cost (DAC) amortization and reduced variable annuity income. Earnings in the current quarter reflected equity market growth, lower death related claims, as well as an $8 million favorable DAC amortization adjustment. Total variable annuity sales increased to $205 million compared to $143 million in the prior year from improved equity market conditions.
The retirement income spread-based business had net operating income of $17 million compared to a loss of $20 million in the prior year from improved investment income. Earnings in the prior year included a $39 million loss from lower valuation of limited partnership (LP) investments. Total spread-based AUM remained flat sequentially ending at $18.9 billion reflecting the company's targeted annuity strategy and favorable persistency.
 
International
 
 
International earnings, before provision for noncontrolling interests, were $124 million, up from $101 million a year ago, primarily reflecting benefits from foreign exchange.
In Canada, home prices improved as a result of government stimulus programs that began in late 2008 to lower interest rates which enhanced housing affordability and increased home sales. Sequentially, the unemployment rate in Canada improved from 8.4 percent at year end to 8.2 percent at the end of the first quarter.
Total Canadian operating earnings decreased six percent
4
from the prior year primarily from a decline in premiums from lower policy cancellations and lower investment income, partially offset by improved losses. On both a year over year and a sequential basis, the loss ratio declined from 39 percent to 38 percent in the first quarter. Based on current loss experience, the 2006 book has passed its peak loss seasoning period, while the large 2007 book is showing signs of peaking.
Flow NIW in Canada increased 42 percent
4
from the prior year from growth in the mortgage origination market as consumer confidence improved. Bulk NIW increased from $0.4 billion in the prior year to $1.8 billion primarily from one transaction that was executed in the quarter.
The regulatory capital ratio in Canada increased sequentially to 150 percent
6
from 149 percent, in excess of regulatory requirements. Genworth MI Canada (MIC) announced a new capital plan to optimize its capital structure, with two components. First, adding debt to its capital structure, taking advantage of current favorable market conditions and bringing it more in line with other publicly traded Canadian insurance companies. The debt to capital ratio is initially targeted at approximately 10 percent
8
. Second, MIC plans to return up to CAD$350 million of its capital to shareholders in 2010. These actions are all subject to market conditions and final MIC Board approval. GAAP book value for the Canada MI business was $2.6 billion at quarter end, of which $1.5 billion represented Genworth's 57.5 percent ownership interest.
 
 
In Australia, national home prices improved as a result of government stimulus programs that began in late 2008 to lower interest rates which enhanced housing affordability and increased home sales. Sequentially, the unemployment rate in Australia improved from 5.5 percent at year end to 5.3 percent at the end of the first quarter.
Australia earnings increased seven percent
4
year over year as improved loss experience more than offset lower premiums. As part of on going capital and risk management initiatives to diversify its reinsurance programs, the company added AUD$250 million of external reinsurance coverage. In total, additional external reinsurance coverage reduced earned premiums in the quarter by $6 million.
On a sequential basis, the loss ratio improved one point to 44 percent. Excluding the reduction in premiums associated with higher reinsurance levels, the loss ratio would have improved four points to 41 percent sequentially. Higher interest rates and reduced government first-time homebuyer program benefits have slowed mortgage originations as expected. Flow NIW in Australia was down 26 percent
4
from the prior year and 22 percent
4
sequentially as stable market share was more than offset by a smaller mortgage origination market. Bulk new insurance written increased to $0.7 billion, an early sign of a return of liquidity to the securitization market.
The regulatory capital ratio in Australia increased sequentially to 140 percent
6
, in excess of the regulatory requirement and reflected increased use of reinsurance and in force profitability. Australia mortgage insurance had approximately $225 million of capital in excess of regulatory requirements. GAAP book value for Australia mortgage insurance at the end of the quarter was $1.6 billion.
Other international mortgage insurance had a $5 million net operating loss. In Europe, loss mitigation actions continued to lower risk in force (RIF), which declined by approximately $0.9 billion to $4.5 billion from the prior year. The company's RIF in Spain continued to decline and ended the first quarter at $0.4 billion, down approximately $0.9 billion from the prior year.
Lifestyle protection earnings increased to $12 million versus the prior year earnings of $11 million. Four factors contributed to earnings results. First, loss experience improved in
 
Southern and Western European countries where new claim registrations declined. Second, price or distribution contract changes to date that were concentrated in the Southern and Western regions have taken hold and added $5 million to earnings in the quarter versus the prior year. Third, loss experience was pressured in Nordic countries as unemployment rose, with loss experience concentrated in a specific coverage type subject to multiple loss mitigation actions. Additional price or distribution contract changes are being taken in this region to reflect current unemployment experience. Finally, results reflected continued slow new business growth resulting from low levels of consumer lending. Specifically, lifestyle protection sales decreased two percent
4
as a result of the stressed economic environment in Europe and continued lower consumer lending along with selective risk management actions. In lifestyle protection, the regulatory capital ratio ended the quarter at 236 percent
6
, more than twice the regulatory requirement.
U.S. Mortgage Insurance
 
U.S. MI had a $36 million net operating loss, an improvement from a $135 million loss during the prior year quarter and from a $74 million loss in the fourth quarter of 2009, primarily from improved losses and continued loss mitigation benefits.
Total losses decreased to $196 million from $272 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 from a normal seasonal decline in new flow delinquencies, an increase in cures from loan modifications, lower bulk losses and continued loss mitigation benefits.
 
Gross flow losses decreased to $226 million from $274 million sequentially as first quarter loss experience reflected a decline in new flow delinquencies and an increase in loan modifications and cures. This marked the fifth consecutive quarter of decline in flow losses.
Flow delinquencies decreased primarily from normal seasonal patterns in new delinquencies and increased cures from loan modification programs including HAMP. Flow delinquencies declined to approximately 102,400 from 107,500 in the fourth quarter of 2009, with new flow delinquencies down about 4,500. Lower delinquencies resulted in $67 million lower reserves in the quarter. The flow average reserve per delinquency increased sequentially to $19,200 from $18,900 as a result of a change in the mix of the delinquency inventory from two factors. First, the decrease in new flow delinquencies coupled with increased cures reduced the proportion of early stage delinquencies. As a result, the delinquency inventory was more heavily weighted to late stage delinquencies. Second, the later stage delinquencies are primarily from higher loan balance states and specialty products and therefore carry higher reserves per delinquency.
Gross bulk losses decreased to $4 million from $36 million in the fourth quarter driven by $22 million lower government sponsored enterprise (GSE) Alt-A losses resulting from policy cancellations. Effective January 1, 2010, the company executed an agreement that resulted in the cancellation of approximately 80 percent of the GSE Alt-A RIF. This reduced total bulk RIF to $523 million in the first quarter, resulting in the remaining RIF being primarily from high quality Federal Home Loan Bank programs.
Loss mitigation activities, including workouts, presales and policy rescissions, net of reinstatements, resulted in $233 million of savings in the quarter. This included approximately $113 million in savings from various loan modification programs which included a $63 million benefit from loans modified through HAMP. Based upon reporting from the GSEs and certain servicers, Genworth estimates that at the end of the first quarter there were approximately 28,200 loans that have been approved to participate in HAMP, representing 28 percent of flow delinquencies. Benefits from loss mitigation activities in 2010 in total are expected to be consistent with 2009 savings, with the benefit mix continuing to shift from rescissions to loan modifications.
 
Flow NIW decreased sequentially by $300 million as the mortgage insurance market size declined and offset growth in market share. Estimated market share grew sequentially to 17
percent
5
from 15 percent. In addition, the Home Affordable Refinance Program accounted for $700 million of insurance that is treated as a modification of the coverage on existing insurance in force rather than new insurance written.
U.S. MI made a number of changes to underwriting guidelines in the first quarter that are expected to support future NIW growth. In particular, retail channel originations in metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) where Genworth continued to restrict coverages to 90 percent loan to value (LTV) based on housing market conditions, were reopened to mortgages with 95 percent and lower LTVs with strong FICO scores. Remaining declining market policies were maintained for non-retail channel originations as well as for select property types in Florida.
The risk to capital ratio was up moderately to 14.9:1
6
from 14.6:1 in the fourth quarter.
Corporate and Other
 
Corporate and other net operating loss was $63 million compared to income of $10 million in the prior year quarter. Results in the prior year included $46 million of income associated with repurchases of funding agreements backing notes and $25 million of higher tax benefits. Results in the current year quarter included $7 million of higher losses from limited partnerships offset by improved investment income from holding lower cash balances.
Holding company cash and cash equivalents totaled $0.8 billion and highly liquid treasury securities totaled $0.2 billion at the end of the first quarter.
 
Investments
Net income in the quarter included net investment losses of $42 million, net of tax and other adjustments, including $52 million of net other-than-temporary impairments, $10 million of net realized losses from asset sales, $5 million of losses on derivatives used for risk management purposes, $11 million from the recovery of a counterparty receivable, $7 million of mark to market valuation gains on trading securities and bank loans and $7 million of gains related to consolidated securitization entities.
Credit related impairments totaled $52 million and were primarily comprised of
 
 
 
 
Net unrealized investment losses were $0.9 billion, net of tax and other items, as of March 31, 2010, declining from $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2009. The fixed maturity securities portfolio had gross unrealized investment losses of $2.7 billion compared to $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2009 and gross unrealized investment gains of $1.5 billion compared to $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2009.
Stockholders' Equity
Stockholders' equity as of March 31, 2010 increased to $12.9 billion, or $26.36 per share, compared with $12.3 billion, or $25.12 per share, as of December 31, 2009. Stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), as of March 31, 2010 increased to $12.5 billion, or $25.65 per share, compared with $12.4 billion, or $25.46 per share, as of December 31, 2009.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE:GNW) is a leading Fortune 500 global financial security company. Genworth has more than $100 billion in assets and employs approximately 6,000 people with a presence in more than 25 countries. Its products and services help meet the investment, protection, retirement and lifestyle needs of more than 15 million customers. Genworth operates through three segments: Retirement and Protection, U.S. Mortgage Insurance and International. Its products and services are offered through financial
 
intermediaries, advisors, independent distributors and sales specialists. Genworth Financial, which traces its roots back to 1871, became a public company in 2004 and is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia. For more information, visit Genworth.com. From time to time Genworth releases important information via postings on its corporate website. Accordingly, investors and other interested parties are encouraged to enroll to receive automatic email alerts and Really Simple Syndication (RSS) feeds regarding new postings. Enrollment information is found under the "Investors" section of Genworth.com.
Conference Call and Financial Supplement Information
This press release and the first quarter 2010 financial supplement are now posted on the company's website. Investors are encouraged to review all of these materials.
Genworth will conduct a conference call on April 30, 2010 at 9 a.m. (ET) to discuss the quarter's results. The conference call will be accessible via telephone and the Internet. The dial-in number for Genworth's April 30 conference call is 877 856.1955 or 719 325.4744 (outside the U.S.). To participate in the call by webcast, register at http://investor.genworth.com at least 15 minutes prior to the webcast to download and install any necessary software.
The webcast will be archived on the company's website and a replay of the call will be available at 888 203.1112 or 719 457.0820 (outside the U.S.); passcode 7138643. The replay will be available through May 14, 2010.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income (loss)." The chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income (loss). The company defines net operating income (loss) as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. This metric excludes these items because the company does not consider them to be related to the operating performance of its segments and Corporate and Other activities. A significant component of the net investment gains (losses) is the result of impairments, the size and timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment
 
gains (losses) are often subject to Genworth's discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income (loss) if, in the company's opinion, they are not indicative of overall operating trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income (loss) in accordance with GAAP, the company believes that net operating income (loss), and measures that are derived from or incorporate net operating income (loss), are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because they identify the income (loss) attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income (loss) is not a substitute for GAAP net income (loss). In addition, the company's definition of net operating income (loss) may differ from the definitions used by other companies. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income (loss) during the periods presented in this press release other than a $106 million tax benefit related to separation from the company's former parent recorded in the first quarter of 2010. The tables at the end of this press release reflect net operating income (loss) as determined in accordance with accounting guidance related to segment reporting and a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income (loss) for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009.
Definition of Selected Operating Performance Measures
The company reports selected operating performance measures including "sales," "assets under management" and "insurance in force" or "risk in force" which are commonly used in the insurance and investment industries as measures of operating performance. Management regularly monitors and reports the sales metric as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. "Sales" refer to (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life, long term care and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, linked-benefits, spread-based and variable products; (3) gross and net flows, which represent gross flows less redemptions, for the wealth management business; (4) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where the company earns a fee for administrative services only business, for lifestyle protection insurance; (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented; and (6) written premiums, net of cancellations, for the Mexican insurance operations. Sales do not include renewal
 
premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums, premium equivalents and new insurance written to be measures of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than measures of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for the wealth management business, insurance in force and risk in force. Assets under management for the wealth management business represent third-party assets under management that are not consolidated in the financial statements. Insurance in force for the life insurance, international and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. Risk in force for the international and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure that recognizes that the loss on any particular mortgage loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the underlying property. The company considers assets under management for its wealth management business, insurance in force and risk in force to be measures of the company's operating performance because they represent measures of the size of the business at a specific date, rather than measures of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
This press release also includes a metric related to loss mitigation activities for the U.S. mortgage insurance business. The company defines loss mitigation activities as rescissions, cancellations, borrower loan modifications, repayment plans, lender- and borrower-titled presales and other loan workouts and claim mitigation actions. Estimated savings related to rescissions are the reduction in carried loss reserves, net of premium refunds and reinstatement of prior rescissions. Estimated savings related to loan modifications and other cure related loss mitigation actions represent the reduction in carried loss reserves. For non-cure related actions, including presales, the estimated savings represent the difference between the full claim obligation and the actual amount paid. The company believes that this metric helps to enhance the understanding of the operating performance of the U.S. mortgage insurance business.
 
These operating measures enable the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will" or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
# # #
Contact Information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Note:
Unless otherwise noted, references in this financial supplement to net income (loss), net income (loss) per share, net operating income (loss), net operating income (loss) per share, book value and book value per common share should be read as net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders, net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per share, net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders, net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per share, book value available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders and book value available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per share, respectively.
 
 
Dear Investor,
In the U.S. Mortgage Insurance segment, the company provided additional details related to the number of delinquencies associated with the company's primary mortgage insurance business. This information can be found on page 44.
Once again, thank you for your continued interest in Genworth Financial.
Please feel free to call with any questions or comments.
Regards,
Alicia Charity
Senior Vice President
Investor Relations
804 662.2248
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This financial supplement includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income (loss)." The chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income (loss). The company defines net operating income (loss) as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. The company excludes net investment gains (losses) and infrequent or unusual non-operating items because the company does not consider them to be related to the operating performance of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities. A significant component of net investment gains (losses) is the result of impairments, size and the timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment gains (losses) are often subject to the company's discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income (loss) if, in the company's opinion, they are not indicative of overall trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders in accordance with GAAP, the company believes that net operating income (loss), and measures that are derived from or incorporate net operating income (loss), are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because they identify the income (loss) attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income (loss) is not a substitute for net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income (loss) may differ from the definitions used by other companies. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders during the periods other than a $106 million tax benefit related to separation from the company's former parent recorded in the first quarter of 2010. The table on page 8 of this financial supplement reflects net operating income (loss) as determined in accordance with accounting guidance related to segment reporting, and a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009. The financial supplement includes other non-GAAP measures management believes enhances the understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. These additional non-GAAP measures are on pages 64 through 67 of this financial supplement.
(1)
Selected Operating Performance Measures
This financial supplement contains selected operating performance measures including "sales," "assets under management" and "insurance in-force" or "risk in-force" which are commonly used in the insurance and investment industries as measures of operating performance.
Management regularly monitors and reports the sales metrics as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. "Sales" refer to (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life, long-term care and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, linked-benefits, spread-based and variable products; (3) gross and net flows, which represent gross flows less redemptions, for the wealth management business; (4) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where the company earns a fee for administrative services only business, for lifestyle protection insurance business; (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented; and (6) written premiums, net of cancellations, for the Mexican insurance operations. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods.
The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums, premium equivalents and new insurance written to be measures of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than measures of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for the wealth management business, insurance in-force and risk in-force. Assets under management for the wealth management business represent third-party assets under management that are not consolidated in the financial statements. Insurance in-force for the life insurance, international and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. Risk in-force for the international and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure that recognizes that the loss on any particular mortgage loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the underlying property. The company considers assets under management for its wealth management business, insurance in-force and risk in-force to be measures of the company's operating performance because they represent measures of the size of the business at a specific date, rather than measures of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
This financial supplement also includes a metric related to loss mitigation activities for the U.S. mortgage insurance business. The company defines loss mitigation activities as rescissions, cancellations, borrower loan modifications, repayment plans, lender- and borrower-titled pre-sales and other loan workouts and claim mitigation actions. Estimated savings related to rescissions are the reduction in carried loss reserves, net of premium refunds and reinstatement of prior rescissions. Estimated savings related to loan modifications and other cure related loss mitigation actions represent the reduction in carried loss reserves. For non-cure related actions, includingpre-sales, the estimated savings represent the difference between the full claim obligation and the actual amount paid. The company believes that this metric helps to enhance the understanding of the operating performance of the U.S. mortgage insurance business.
 
These operating measures enable the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management results represent Genworth Financial Wealth Management, Inc., Genworth Financial Advisors Corporation, Genworth Financial Trust Company and Quantuvis Consulting, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The loss and expense ratios included above were calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All amounts presented in Canadian dollars.
 
 
 
 
 
 
All amounts presented in Australian dollars.
 
 
 
Amounts may not total due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
The loss ratio included above was calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratio calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The expense ratios included above were calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
The loss ratio included above was calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratio calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed Securities Collateralized by Sub-prime Residential Mortgage Loans
(2)
:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Operating ROE
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Expense Ratio
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "expense ratio" as a measure of productivity. The company defines expense ratio as acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues, excluding the effects of the company's wealth management and lifestyle protection insurance businesses. The wealth management and lifestyle protection insurance businesses are excluded from this ratio as their expense bases are comprised of varying levels of non-deferrable acquisition costs. Management believes that the expense ratio analysis enhances understanding of the productivity of the company. However, the expense ratio as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Premiums
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core premiums" as a measure of premium growth. The company defines core premiums as earned premiums less premiums from the retirement incomespread-based business and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. The retirement incomespread-based premiums are excluded in this measure primarily because these are single premiums and are not an indication of future premiums. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates are excluded in this measure to present periods on a comparable exchange rate. Management believes that analysis of core premiums enhances understanding of premium growth of the company. However, core premiums as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP earned premiums.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Yield
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core yield" as a measure of investment yield. The company defines core yield as the investment yield adjusted for those items that are not recurring in nature. Management believes that analysis of core yield enhances understanding of the investment yield of the company. However, core yield as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP investment yield.
 
 
 
 
The company's principal life insurance subsidiaries are rated by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC ("S&P"), Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's"), A.M. Best Company, Inc. ("A.M. Best") and Fitch Ratings ("Fitch") as follows:
 
 
The S&P, Moody's, A.M. Best and Fitch ratings are not designed to be, and do not serve as, measures of protection or valuation offered to investors. These financial strength ratings should not be relied on with respect to making an investment in the company's securities.
 
 
S&P states that an insurer rated "AA" (Very Strong) has very strong financial security characteristics that outweigh any vulnerabilities, and is highly likely to have the ability to meet financial commitments. An insurer rated "A" (Strong) has strong financial security characteristics and an insurer rated "BBB" (Good) has good financial security characteristics. The "AA," "A" and "BBB" ranges are the second-, third- and fourth-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by S&P, which range from "AAA" to "R." A plus (+) or minus (-) shows relative standing in a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the "AAA" category or to ratings below the "CCC" category. Accordingly, the "AA-," "A," "A-," "BBB" and "BBB-" ratings are the fourth-, sixth-, seventh-, ninth- and tenth-highest of S&P's 21 ratings categories. The short-term "A-1" rating is the highest rating and shows the capacity to meet financial commitments is strong. An obligor rated "mxAA" has a very strong capacity to meet its financial commitments relative to that of other Mexican obligors. The "mxAA" rating is the second-highest enterprise credit rating assigned on S&P's CaVal national scale.
Moody's states that insurance companies rated "A" (Good) offer good financial security and those rated "Baa" (Adequate) offer adequate financial security. The "A" (Good) and "Baa" (Adequate) ranges are the third- and fourth-highest, respectively, of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by Moody's, which range from "Aaa" to "C." Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the groups, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. These modifiers are not added to ratings in the "Aaa" category or to ratings below the "Caa" category. Accordingly, the "A1," "A2," "Baa2" and "Baa3" ratings are the fifth-, sixth-, ninth-and tenth-highest, respectively, of Moody's 21 ratings categories. Short-term rating "P-1" is the highest rating and shows superior ability for repayment of short-term debt obligations. Issuers or issues rated "Aa.mx" demonstrate very strong creditworthiness relative to other issuers in Mexico.
A.M. Best states that its "A" (Excellent) and "A-" (Excellent) ratings are assigned to companies that have, in its opinion, an excellent ability to meet their ongoing insurance obligations. The "A" (Excellent) and "A-" (Excellent) ratings are the third- and fourth-highest of fifteen ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from "A++" to "F."
Fitch states that "A" (Strong) rated insurance companies are viewed as possessing strong capacity to meet policyholder and contract obligations. The "A" rating category is the third-highest of eight financial strength rating categories, which range from "AAA" to "C." The symbol (+) or (-) may be appended to a rating to indicate the relative position of a credit within a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the "AAA" category or to ratings below the "CCC" category. Accordingly, the "A-" rating is the seventh-highest of Fitch's 21 ratings categories.
DBRS states that long-term obligations rated "AA" are of superior credit quality. Given the restrictive definition DBRS has for the "AAA" category, entities rated "AA" are also considered to be strong credits, typically exemplifying above-average strength in key areas of consideration and unlikely to be significantly affected by reasonably foreseeable events.
S&P, Moody's, A.M. Best, Fitch and DBRS review their ratings periodically and the company cannot assure you that it will maintain the current ratings in the future. Other agencies may also rate the company or its insurance subsidiaries on a solicited or an unsolicited basis.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading financial security company meeting the retirement, longevity and lifestyle protection, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, with a presence in more than 25 countries. For more information, visit www.genworth.com.
Inquiries:
Alicia Charity, 804-662-2248
Alicia.Charity@genworth.com
 


