FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20101115164347.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The condensed consolidated financial statements of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Limited, an indirect subsidiary of Genworth Financial, Inc., as of September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, are included in Exhibit 99.1 to Item 9.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibit) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing. This information may be included or incorporated by reference in registration statements or reports filed under the Securities Act, or the Exchange Act, in connection with the issuance of asset-backed securities by one or more third parties.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following material is furnished as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Table of Contents
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
(1) Nature of Business, Formation of Genworth Mortgage and Basis of Presentation
Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Limited ("Genworth Mortgage" or the "Company" as appropriate) offers mortgage insurance products in Australia and New Zealand and is headquartered in Sydney, Australia. In particular, the Company offers primary mortgage insurance, known as "lenders mortgage insurance," or LMI, and portfolio credit enhancement policies. The principal product is LMI, which is generally single premium business and provides 100% coverage of the loan amount in the event of a mortgage default.
The Company's condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") and rules and regulations of the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") disclosure requirements for interim financial information. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete consolidated financial statements. These condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments considered necessary by management to present a fair statement of the financial position, results of operations and cash flow for the periods presented. The results reported in these condensed consolidated financial statements should not be regarded as necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for the entire year. The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and related notes contained in our 2009 year end financial statements on Form 8-K furnished on March 30, 2010.
The Company's management has determined that the Company has one reportable operating segment, mortgage insurance.
Genworth Mortgage, formerly GE Mortgage Insurance Company Pty Limited, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Holdings Pty Limited and was incorporated in Australia on November 10, 2003. The ultimate parent company of Genworth Mortgage is Genworth Financial, Inc. ("Genworth"). Genworth was incorporated in Delaware on October 23, 2003.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. The accompanying financial statements include Genworth Financial Mortgage Indemnity Limited and are prepared on a consolidated basis. All intercompany transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
(2) Accounting Pronouncements
Recently Adopted
Scope Exception for Embedded Credit Derivatives
On July 1, 2010, we adopted new accounting guidance related to embedded credit derivatives. This accounting guidance clarified the scope exception for embedded credit derivatives and when those features would be bifurcated from the host contract. Under the new accounting guidance, only embedded credit derivative features that are in the form of subordination of one financial instrument to another would not be subject to the bifurcation requirements. The adoption of this new accounting guidance did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements
Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with VIEs
On January 1, 2010, we adopted new accounting guidance for determining which enterprise, if any, has a controlling financial interest in variable interest entities ("VIE") and requires additional disclosures about involvement in VIEs. Under this new accounting guidance, the primary beneficiary of a VIE is the enterprise that has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impacts the VIE's economic performance and has the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits that could potentially be
 
Table of Contents
 
significant to the VIE. Upon adoption of this new accounting guidance, we were required to consolidate certain VIEs, if any, including previously qualified special purpose entities and investment structures. The adoption of this accounting guidance did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements as we do not have any controlling financial interests in a VIE.
Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures - Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements
On January 1, 2010, we adopted new accounting guidance requiring additional disclosures for significant transfers between Level 1 and 2 fair value measurements and clarifications to existing fair value disclosures related to the level of disaggregation, inputs and valuation techniques. The adoption of this new accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Not Yet Adopted
In October 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued new accounting guidance related to accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts. This new accounting guidance will be effective for us on January 1, 2012. When adopted, we expect to defer fewer costs. The new guidance is required to be adopted prospectively with retroactive adoption allowed. We have not yet determined the method nor impact this accounting guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.
In July 2010, the FASB issued new accounting guidance that will require additional disclosures about the credit quality of loans, lease receivables and other long-term receivables and the related allowance for credit losses. Certain additional disclosures in this new accounting guidance will be effective for us on December 31, 2010 with certain other additional disclosures that will be effective for us on March 31, 2011. We do not expect the adoption of this new accounting guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In January 2010, the FASB issued new accounting guidance to require additional disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the rollforward of Level 3 fair value measurements. This new accounting guidance will be effective for us on January 1, 2011. We do not expect the adoption of this new accounting guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
(3) Investments
Net Investment Income
Sources of net investment income were as follows for the periods indicated:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Net Investment Gains (Losses)
The following table sets forth net investment gains (losses) for the periods indicated:
 
There were no securities sold at a loss during the three months ended September 30, 2010. The aggregate fair value of securities sold at a loss during the three months ended September 30, 2009 was $19,446 thousands, which was approximately 82% of book value. The aggregate fair value of securities sold at a loss during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009 was $226,392 thousands and $22,556 thousands, respectively, which was approximately 99% and 84%, respectively, of book value.
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses)
Net unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment securities reflected as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows as of the dates indicated:
 
The change in net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) was as follows as of or for the periods indicated:
 
The change in net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) was as follows as of or for the periods indicated:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Fixed Maturity Securities
As of September 30, 2010, the amortized cost or cost, gross unrealized gains and losses and fair value of the fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale were as follows:
 
As of December 31, 2009, the amortized cost or cost, gross unrealized gains and losses and fair value of the fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale were as follows:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The following table presents the gross unrealized losses and fair values of investment securities, aggregated by investment type and length of time that individual investment securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, as of September 30, 2010:
 
The investment securities in an unrealized loss position as of September 30, 2010 consisted of 73 securities and accounted for unrealized losses of $9,701 thousands. Of these unrealized losses of $9,701 thousands, nearly all of the securities were investment grade (rated "AAA" through "BBB-") and all were less than 20% below cost. The securities less than 20% below cost were primarily attributable to widening credit spreads which reflect current financial industry events including uncertainty surrounding the level and type of government support of European financial institutions, potential capital restructuring of these institutions, the risk that income payments may be deferred and the risk that these institutions could be nationalized. In our examination of these securities, we considered all available evidence, including the issuers' financial condition and current industry events to develop our conclusion on the amount and timing of the cash flows expected to be collected. Based on this evaluation, we determined that the unrealized losses on these securities represented temporary impairments as of September 30, 2010.
Despite the considerable analysis and rigor employed on our structured securities, it is at least reasonably possible that the underlying collateral of these investments will perform worse than current market expectations. Such events may lead to adverse changes in cash flows on our holdings and potential future write-downs within our portfolio. We expect our investments in corporate securities will continue to perform in accordance with our conclusions about the amount and timing of estimated cash flows. Although we do not anticipate such events, it is at least reasonably possible that issuers of our investments in corporate securities will perform worse than current expectations. Such events may lead us to recognize potential future write-downs within our portfolio of corporate securities.
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The following table presents the gross unrealized losses and fair values of investment securities, aggregated by investment type and length of time that individual investment securities were in a continuous unrealized loss position, as of December 31, 2009:
 
The scheduled maturity distribution of fixed maturity securities as of September 30, 2010 is set forth below. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers of securities may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties
.
 
As of September 30, 2010, $81 million of investments were subject to certain call provisions. Typically, call provisions provide the issuer the ability to redeem a security, prior to its stated maturity, at or above par.
Investment Concentrations
As of September 30, 2010, securities issued by finance and insurance industry groups and foreign state government represented approximately 20% and 41%, respectively, of the corporate fixed maturity securities portfolio held by the Company.
As of September 30, 2010, the Company held $431 million in corporate fixed maturity securities issued by the New South Wales Treasury Corporation, which comprised of 24% of total stockholder's
 
Table of Contents
 
equity. Additionally, the Company held $359 million in corporate fixed maturity securities issued by Queensland Treasury Corporation, $221 million in corporate fixed maturity securities issued by the State of Victoria and $193 million in corporate fixed maturity securities issued by National Australia Bank Limited, which comprised 20%, 12% and 11%, respectively, of total stockholder's equity. No other single issuer exceeded 10% of total stockholder's equity.
(4) Fair Value Measurements
Recurring Fair Value Measurements
We have fixed maturity securities which are carried at fair value. Below is a description of the valuation techniques and inputs used to determine fair value by class of instrument.
Fixed maturity securities
The valuations of fixed maturity securities are determined using a market approach, income approach or a combination of the market and income approach depending on the type of instrument and availability of information.
We utilize certain third-party data providers when determining fair value. We consider information obtained from third-party pricing services as well as third-party broker provided prices, or broker quotes, in our determination of fair value. Additionally, we utilize internal models to determine the valuation of securities using an income approach where the inputs are based on third-party provided market inputs. While we consider the valuations provided by third-party pricing services and broker quotes, management determines the fair value of our investment securities after considering all relevant and available information. We also obtain an understanding of the valuation methodologies and procedures used by third-party data providers to ensure sufficient understanding to evaluate the valuation data received and determine the appropriate fair value.
In general, we first obtain valuations from pricing services. If a price is not supplied by a pricing service, we will typically seek a broker quote. For certain private fixed maturity securities where we do not obtain valuations from pricing services, we utilize an internal model to determine fair value since transactions for identical securities are not readily observable and these securities are not typically valued by pricing services. For all securities, excluding certain private fixed maturity securities, if neither a pricing service nor broker quote valuation is available, we determine fair value using internal models.
For pricing services, we obtain an understanding of the pricing methodologies and procedures for each type of instrument. In general, a pricing service does not provide a price for a security if sufficient information is not readily available to determine fair value or if such security is not in the specific sector or class covered by a particular pricing service. Given our understanding of the pricing methodologies and procedures of pricing services, the securities valued by pricing services are typically classified as Level 2 unless we determine the valuation process for a security or group of securities utilizes significant unobservable inputs.
For private fixed maturity securities, we utilize an internal model to determine fair value and utilize public bond spreads by sector, rating and maturity to develop the market rate that would be utilized for a similar public bond. We then add an additional premium to the public bond spread to adjust for the liquidity and other features of our private placements. We utilize the estimated market yield to discount the expected cash flows of the security to determine fair value. We assign each security an internal rating to determine appropriate public bond spread that should be utilized in the valuation. While we generally consider the public bond spreads by sector and maturity to be observable inputs, we evaluate the similarities of our private placement with the public bonds to determine whether the spreads utilized would be considered observable inputs for the private placement being valued. To determine the significance of unobservable inputs, we calculate the impact on the valuation from the unobservable input and will classify a security as Level 3 when the impact on the valuation exceeds 10%.
For remaining securities priced using internal models, we maximize the use of observable inputs but typically utilize significant unobservable inputs to determine fair value. Accordingly, the valuations are typically classified as Level 3.
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The following table summarizes the primary sources considered when determining fair value of each class of fixed maturity securities as of September 30, 2010.
 
The following tables set forth our assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of the dates indicated:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The following tables present additional information about assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis and for which we have utilized significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs to determine fair value as of or for the dates indicated:
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Realized and unrealized gains (losses) on Level 3 assets and liabilities are primarily reported in either net investment gains (losses) within the condensed consolidated statements of income or OCI within stockholder's equity based on the appropriate accounting treatment for the instrument.
Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net, represent the activity that occurred during the period that results in a change of the asset or liability but does not represent changes in fair value for the instruments held at the beginning of the period. Such activity consists of purchases and sales of fixed maturity securities.
The amount presented for unrealized gains (losses) for assets still held as of the reporting date primarily represents accretion on certain fixed maturity securities which were recorded in net investment gains (losses).
 
Table of Contents
 
 
(5) Supplemental Cash Flow Information
A tax sharing liability of $36 million payable to its immediate parent company Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Holdings Pty Limited was treated as additional contribution of capital.
(6) Securitization Entities
Part of the Company's product offering includes portfolio credit enhancement policies to Australian regulated lenders that have originated housing loans for securitization in the Australian, European and U.S. markets. Portfolio mortgage insurance serves as an important form of credit enhancement for the Australian securitization market and the Company's portfolio credit enhancement coverage is generally purchased for low loan-to-value, seasoned loans written by regulated institutions.
As of September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the Company had a maximum exposure to loss from the provision of portfolio credit enhancement to securitization trusts sponsored by third parties of $176 million and $177 million, respectively. The exchange rate for calculating the maximum exposure to loss of translating the Australian dollar into the U.S. dollar as of September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009 was $0.97 and $0.90, respectively. This exposure was calculated based on the expectation of a 1 in 250 year event. The Company has applied the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority ("APRA") stress scenario to calculate this exposure. The Company holds sufficient capital resources to meet this obligation were it to occur.
(7) Statutory Accounting
Genworth Mortgage prepares financial statements for its regulator, APRA, in accordance with the accounting practices prescribed by the regulator, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than U.S. GAAP.
On June 23, 2010, APRA issued new reporting standards aimed at harmonizing APRA prudential reporting with financial reporting prepared under Australian accounting standards with the effective date of July 1, 2010.
Prior to the new reporting standards, the main differences were as follows:
 
 
 
 
Under the new rule, the above differences were eliminated and the balance sheet is recorded under Australian accounting standards and a prudential adjustment is made to derive the capital base.
The Company's APRA net income after tax, capital base, minimum capital requirement and solvency ratio were as follows as of and for the year ended December 31:
 
The APRA solvency ratio is the combined amounts of Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Limited and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Genworth Financial Mortgage Indemnity Limited.
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Under the prudential regulation framework in Australia, mortgage insurers are required to establish a catastrophic risk charge defined as a 1 in 250 year event. The Company is required to maintain adequate capital to fund this charge, in addition to normal insurance liabilities, by ensuring that its capital base exceeds its minimum capital requirement at all times.
As of September 30, 2010, the APRA solvency ratio was 1.57.
The Company's ability to pay dividends to Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Holdings Pty Limited is restricted to the extent the payment of dividends exceeds current year income. Any dividend above this level requires prior approval from APRA. In addition, any dividend payment must result in the Company continuing to meet the APRA minimum capital requirement.
 


