FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20111006092451.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective October 1, 2011, Genworth Financial, Inc. completed the previously disclosed disposition of its Medicare supplement insurance business to Aetna Inc. for $276 million, net of customary closing adjustments. The transaction includes the sale of Continental Life Insurance Company of Brentwood, Tennessee and its subsidiary, American Continental Insurance Company, and the reinsurance of the Medicare supplement insurance in-force business written by other Genworth life insurance subsidiaries.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet of Genworth Financial, Inc. as of June 30, 2011 and notes thereto and the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of income of Genworth Financial, Inc. for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and for the year ended December 31, 2010 and notes thereto are filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
(d) Exhibits.
The following is filed as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 6, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes are presented to show the effect on the historical condensed consolidated financial statements of Genworth Financial, Inc. (the "Company") of the sale of Continental Life Insurance Company of Brentwood, Tennessee ("Continental") and American Continental Insurance Company ("American Continental"), both indirect subsidiaries of the Company, to Aetna Inc. ("Aetna") (the "Sale") and the effects of the reinsurance transactions whereby Genworth Life Insurance Company ("GLIC") and Genworth Life and Annuity Insurance Company ("GLAIC"), both indirect subsidiaries of the Company, ceded 100% of their Medicare supplement insurance to Aetna and Aetna ceded 100% of the long-term care insurance business of Continental to GLIC (the "Reinsurance Transactions"). As a result of these Reinsurance Transactions, all Medicare supplement insurance has either been sold or reinsured and all long-term care insurance held by Continental has been reinsured back to the Company. The Sale and the Reinsurance Transactions were effective on October 1, 2011.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet is based on the assumption that the Sale and the Reinsurance Transactions were both completed on June 30, 2011. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of income for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and for the year ended December 31, 2010 are based on the assumption that the Sale and the Reinsurance Transactions were completed on January 1, 2010.
The unaudited pro forma financial statements as of and for the periods presented are for illustrative and informational purposes only and are not intended to represent, or be indicative of, what the Company's results of operations or financial position would have been had the Sale and the Reinsurance Transactions been completed on the dates noted above. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements also should not be considered representative of the Company's future results of operations or financial position.
The pro forma adjustments are based upon available information and certain assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual amounts could differ materially from these estimates. The pro forma results should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the six months ended June 30, 2011.
 
 
 
(a) Adjustments reflect the disposition of the assets and liabilities of Continental and American Continental related to the sale to Aetna.
(b) Adjustment reflects the net proceeds received in connection with the sale of Continental and American Continental and the reinsurance transactions. Proceeds are net of expenses related to the Sale, including advisor fees and other incremental items, and the Company assumed these expenses were paid in cash on June 30, 2011.
(c) Adjustment reflects the reinsurance transactions related to the Medicare supplement insurance business of GLIC and GLAIC ceded to Aetna and the long-term care insurance business of Continental assumed by GLIC.
(d) Adjustment reflects the tax impact of the net gain related to the sale of Continental and American Continental and the reinsurance transactions.
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Adjustment reflects the elimination of revenues and expenses of Continental and American Continental from the Company's historical results.
(b) Adjustment reflects the reinsurance transactions related to the Medicare supplement insurance business of GLIC and GLAIC ceded to Aetna and the long-term care insurance business of Continental assumed by GLIC.
(c) Adjustment reflects the pre-tax gain from the sale of the assets and liabilities of Continental and American Continental.
 


