FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20110503163223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 3, 2011, Genworth Financial, Inc. issued (1) a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and (2) a financial supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibits) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
 
The following materials are furnished as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Richmond, VA (May 3, 2011)  Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) today reported results for the first quarter of 2011. The company reported net income
2
of $82 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, compared with net income of $178 million, or $0.36 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2010. Prior year net income included a $106 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, non-recurring tax benefit and a $26 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, higher level of investment losses, net of tax and other adjustments. Net operating income
3
for the first quarter of 2011 was $98 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, compared with net operating income of $114 million, or $0.23 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2010.
"In the first quarter, we continued to deliver strong international performance, demonstrated sales and earnings progress in Retirement and Protection, and are seeing improving credit trends in U.S. Mortgage Insurance," said Michael D. Fraizer, chairman and chief executive officer. "International results reflected improvements in lifestyle protection and steady performance in Australia and Canada. Retirement and Protection continued its sales momentum across key lines, while life insurance profits improved. In U.S. Mortgage Insurance, we continued to execute our plan to return to profitability. Flow delinquencies declined on a sequential basis, loss mitigation benefits are on track to achieve full year targets, we added high margin new business and continued to implement actions to maintain capital flexibility. Overall, we remain focused on sustaining the
 
 
performance of our leading platforms, continuing to improve performance in U.S. life insurance lines and U.S. Mortgage Insurance, and taking actions to optimize capital allocation."
 
Net income in the prior year period included a $106 million non-recurring tax benefit related to the separation from the company's former parent. Net investment losses, net of tax and other adjustments, decreased to $16 million in the quarter from $42 million in the prior year.
 
 
Net operating income (loss) excludes net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments, net of taxes. In the discussion of International results, all references to percentage changes exclude the impact of foreign exchange. Percentage changes, which include the impact of foreign exchange, are found in a table at the end of this press release. The impact of foreign exchange on net operating income in the first quarter of 2011 was a favorable $6 million versus the prior year.
A reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income is included at the end of this press release.
Retirement and Protection
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retirement and Protection earnings increased four percent to $127 million compared with $122 million a year ago. Results in the current quarter included a $7 million exit charge associated with the company's previously announced plans to discontinue sales of individual variable and group annuities. Consolidated U.S. life companies ended the quarter with a RBC ratio of approximately 370 percent
7
.
Life insurance earnings were $52 million compared with $37 million in the prior year and included an $8 million favorable cumulative impact from a recent change in premium taxes in Virginia. Results in the quarter reflected sound new business performance and higher investment income from limited partnerships. Total life sales increased 60 percent from the prior year reflecting strong Colony
SM
Term UL sales as well as growth in universal life excess
 
 
deposits. Colony
SM
Term UL sales grew 29 percent versus the traditional term and Colony
SM
Term UL in the prior year, and average face amount on new business increased by nine percent to about $357,000, reflecting continued progress in executing strategies to increase sales in the middle and mass affluent markets.
Long term care earnings were $40 million and included a $4 million unfavorable adjustment related to the accounting for interest rate swaps. Results in the current quarter reflected sound new business performance and the LTC loss ratio was consistent with the prior year. Individual LTC insurance sales increased $15 million year over year, mainly from growth in the independent channel. During the quarter, the company launched a new wellness program, in collaboration with Mayo Clinic, to promote healthy aging and independent living.
Wealth management earnings were $10 million and included an unfavorable tax adjustment. On a pre-tax basis, income increased $3 million from the prior year to $17 million. Wealth management net flows were $355 million, the eighth consecutive quarter of positive net flows, and assets under management (AUM) grew to $25.6 billion.
Retirement income spread-based earnings were $14 million compared to $17 million in the prior year, and reflected a $3 million accrual related to guarantee funds. Total spread-based AUM decreased to $18.2 billion.
Retirement income fee-based earnings were $11 million compared with $17 million in the prior year. Results in the current quarter included a $7 million exit charge associated with discontinuing sales of individual variable and group annuities, which offset positive equity market performance. Results in the prior year quarter included an $8 million favorable deferred acquisition cost (DAC) amortization adjustment.
 
International
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
International earnings increased 30 percent
1
to $124 million primarily driven by a $20 million increase in international mortgage insurance and a $13 million increase in lifestyle protection.
Canadian operating earnings increased 20 percent
1
from the prior year, primarily from $9 million acceleration of full year tax benefits. The loss ratio remained at 38 percent. Flow NIW in Canada increased five percent
1
from the prior year but declined sequentially, as is typical in the winter months.
The regulatory capital ratio in Canada at quarter end was 155 percent
7
, remaining well in excess of requirements. GAAP book value for the Canada MI business was $2.7 billion at quarter end, of which $1.5 billion represented Genworth's 57.5 percent ownership interest. Genworth MI Canada, as part of its ongoing capital planning to create a more efficient capital structure while maintaining flexibility to support growth, plans to repurchase approximately CAD $160 million of its existing common shares, with the amount and timing subject to market conditions and customary approvals. Genworth expects to receive approximately CAD $82 million after-tax in net proceeds, with no percentage change in ownership.
 
Australia operating earnings increased nine percent
1
from the prior year, but were down $3 million sequentially, including a $5 million impact from economic disruption in areas impacted by January's flooding, primarily in Queensland. The loss ratio increased to 45 percent, up one point compared to a year ago and eight points sequentially, reflecting reserve strengthening associated with the flooding. Flow NIW decreased 27 percent
1
compared to the prior year primarily reflecting a smaller origination market.
The regulatory capital ratio in Australia at quarter end was 162 percent
7
, well in excess of requirements. The ratio increased sequentially, reflecting in force profitability and portfolio seasoning. GAAP book value for Australia mortgage insurance at quarter end was $2.0 billion.
Lifestyle protection earnings were $25 million, up $13 million from the prior year reflecting improved operating margins
3
and a reduction in the loss ratio to 15 percent as a result of lower claims levels and 2010 pricing and contract restructuring actions. Overall, lifestyle protection is on track to achieve its operating margin improvement target of approximately 300 basis points in 2011. Sales remained relatively stable as lending remained below pre-recessionary levels.
The lifestyle protection regulatory capital ratio at quarter end was approximately 280 percent
7
, well in excess of requirements.
U.S. Mortgage Insurance
Highlights
 
 
 
 
U.S. MI had an $81 million net operating loss reflecting lower loss mitigation benefits and continued aging of delinquent loans, partially offset by declining new delinquencies primarily from the 2005 to 2007 book years.
Total flow delinquencies declined seven percent sequentially in the first quarter, reflecting lower new delinquencies, improved cures and higher flow paid claims. New flow delinquencies decreased eight percent sequentially, reflecting both a normal seasonal decline and lower delinquencies from the 2005 to 2007 book years, with seasonal improvement during the course of the quarter. Favorable seasonal patterns began developing later in the quarter, in particular with improving cure ratios
8
and lower new delinquencies. The flow average reserve per delinquency increased sequentially to $25,400 from $24,300, with continued aging of remaining delinquencies.
Loss mitigation activities, including workouts, presales, policy rescissions and targeted settlements, net of reinstatements, resulted in $122 million of savings in the quarter, a decline from the fourth quarter as certain loan modifications slowed and modifications continued to shift from the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) to alternative programs. First quarter results are consistent with the company's estimated full year loss mitigation benefit of $400 million to $500 million.
 
 
Flow NIW increased 33 percent over the prior year and decreased 23 percent sequentially reflecting the combined effects of industry share recapture and a smaller origination market. Mortgage insurance penetration was up slightly on a sequential basis. The company's market share is estimated to have remained stable. In addition, the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) accounted for about $840 million of insurance that is treated as a modification of the coverage on existing insurance in force rather than NIW.
Genworth continued to execute strategies to support capital flexibility. Genworth Mortgage Insurance Corporation (GEMICO), Genworth's primary mortgage insurance company, was granted waivers or other communications from 45 states that permit the company to continue writing new business while its risk-to-capital ratio exceeds 25:1. In the remaining states, new business will be written out of other legal entities unless waivers or other communications are obtained. At the end of the first quarter, the combined U.S. MI statutory risk-to-capital ratio was 25.0:1
7
. The quarter end ratio for GEMICO was 27.7:1
7
.
Corporate and Other
Corporate and Other's net operating loss was $72 million compared with $63 million in the prior year quarter. Results in the current year reflected higher taxes partially offset by higher investment income from improved limited partnership performance. On a pre-tax basis, the loss improved by $33 million year over year.
Holding Company
Genworth's holding company ended the quarter with $1.3 billion of cash and highly liquid securities, up $0.3 billion sequentially. During the quarter, the holding company issued $400 million of senior notes, completing its 2011 planned debt issuance and expects to receive approximately $350 million in operating company dividends from international subsidiaries in 2011. Cash levels and dividend plans position the company effectively to execute 2011 and 2012 debt retirements and planned capital structure optimization.
 
Investments
The core yield
3
remained stable sequentially at 4.6 percent despite declining interest rates. In addition, during the quarter, the company entered into $1.0 billion of interest rate hedging transactions for the benefit of its LTC business.
Net income in the quarter included $16 million of net investment losses, net of tax and other adjustments. Excluding $6 million of mark to market valuation gains from securitization entities, after-tax net investment losses were $22 million, which included $23 million of net other-than-temporary impairments.
Net unrealized investment losses were $37 million, net of tax and other items, as of March 31, 2011, compared with $860 million as of March 31, 2010. The fixed maturity securities portfolio had gross unrealized investment gains of $2.0 billion compared with $1.5 billion as of March 31, 2010 and gross unrealized investment losses of $1.5 billion compared with $2.7 billion as of March 31, 2010.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE:GNW) is a leading Fortune 500 global financial security company. Genworth has more than $100 billion in assets and employs approximately 6,500 people with a presence in more than 25 countries. Its products and services help meet the investment, protection, retirement and lifestyle needs of more than 15 million customers. Genworth operates through three segments: Retirement and Protection, U.S. Mortgage Insurance and International. Its products and services are offered through financial intermediaries, advisors, independent distributors and sales specialists. Genworth Financial, which traces its roots back to 1871, became a public company in 2004 and is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia. For more information, visit Genworth.com. From time to time, Genworth releases important information via postings on its corporate website. Accordingly, investors and other interested parties are encouraged to enroll to receive automatic email alerts and Really Simple Syndication (RSS) feeds regarding new postings. Enrollment information is found under the "Investors" section of Genworth.com.
 
Conference Call and Financial Supplement Information
This press release and the first quarter 2011 financial supplement are now posted on the company's website. Investors are encouraged to review all of these materials.
Genworth will conduct a conference call on May 4, 2011 at 10 a.m. (ET) to discuss the quarter's results. The conference call will be accessible via telephone and the Internet. The dial-in number for Genworth's May 4, 2011 conference call is 877 852.6583 or 719 325.4849 (outside the U.S.). To participate in the call by webcast, register at http://investor.genworth.com at least 15 minutes prior to the webcast to download and install any necessary software.
The webcast will be archived on the company's website and a replay of the call will be available at 888 203.1112 or 719 457.0820 (outside the U.S.); passcode 7928272, through May 18, 2011.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income (loss)." The chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income (loss). The company defines net operating income (loss) as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. This metric excludes these items because the company does not consider them to be related to the operating performance of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities. A component of net investment gains (losses) is the result of impairments, the size and timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment gains (losses) can be subject to Genworth's discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income (loss) if, in the company's opinion, they are not indicative of overall operating trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income (loss) in accordance with GAAP, the company believes that net operating income (loss), and measures that are derived from or incorporate net operating income (loss), are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because
 
they identify the income (loss) attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income (loss) is not a substitute for net income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income (loss) may differ from the definitions used by other companies. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income (loss) during the periods presented in this press release other than a $106 million tax benefit related to separation from the company's former parent recorded in the first quarter of 2010. The tables at the end of this press release reflect net operating income (loss) as determined in accordance with accounting guidance related to segment reporting, and a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010.
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating revenue." The company defines operating revenue as revenue excluding net investment gains (losses). The company believes that operating revenue, and measures that are derived from or incorporate operating revenue, is an appropriate measure that is useful to investors because it identifies the revenue attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, operating revenue is not a substitute for revenue determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company's definition of operating revenue may differ from the definitions used by other companies.
This press release also includes the non-GAAP measure entitled "operating margin" related to the lifestyle protection business. The company defines operating margin as income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes excluding net investment gains (losses) divided by total revenues excluding net investment gains (losses). Management believes that this analysis of operating margin enhances the understanding of the lifestyle protection business. However, operating margin as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP margin. In addition, the company's definition of operating margin may differ from the definitions used by other companies.
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core yield" as a measure of investment yield. The company defines core yield as the investment yield adjusted for those items that are not recurring in nature. Management believes that analysis of core yield enhances understanding of the investment yield of the company. However, core yield as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP investment yield. In addition, the company's definition of core yield may differ from the definitions used by other companies. A reconciliation of core yield to reported GAAP yield is included in a table at the end of this press release.
Definition of Selected Operating Performance Measures
The company reports selected operating performance measures including "sales," "assets under management" and "insurance in force" or "risk in force" which are commonly used in the insurance and investment industries as measures of operating performance.
Management regularly monitors and reports sales metrics as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. Sales refer to: (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life, long term care and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, term universal life insurance, linked-benefits, spread-based and variable products; (3) gross and net flows, which represent gross flows less redemptions, for the wealth management business; (4) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium
 
equivalents, where the company earns a fee for administrative services only business, for the lifestyle protection insurance business; (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance; and (6) written premiums, net of cancellations, for the Mexican insurance operations, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums, premium equivalents and new insurance written to be measures of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for the wealth management business, insurance in force and risk in force. Assets under management for the wealth management business represent third-party assets under management that are not consolidated in the financial statements. Insurance in force for the life, international mortgage and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. For the risk in force in the international mortgage insurance business, the company has computed an "effective" risk in force amount, which recognizes that the loss on any particular loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the property. Effective risk in force has been calculated by applying to insurance in force a factor of 35 percent that represents the company's highest expected average per-claim payment for any one underwriting year over the life of the company's businesses in Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Risk in force for the U.S. mortgage insurance business is the obligation that is limited under contractual terms to the amounts less than 100 percent of the mortgage loan value. The company considers assets under management for the wealth management business, insurance in force and risk in force to be measures of the company's operating performance because they represent measures of the size of the business at a specific date which will generate revenues and profits in a future period, rather than measures of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
 
This press release also includes information related to loss mitigation activities for the U.S. mortgage insurance business. The company defines loss mitigation activities as rescissions, cancellations, borrower loan modifications, repayment plans, lender- and borrower-titled presales and other loan workouts and claim mitigation actions. Estimated savings related to rescissions are the reduction in carried loss reserves, net of premium refunds and reinstatement of prior rescissions. Estimated savings related to loan modifications and other cure related loss mitigation actions represent the reduction in carried loss reserves. For non-cure related actions, including presales, the estimated savings represent the difference between the full claim obligation and the actual amount paid. The company believes that this information helps to enhance the understanding of the operating performance of the U.S. mortgage insurance business as they specifically impact current and future loss reserves and level of claim payments.
These operating measures enable the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will" or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
Contact Information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Note:
Unless otherwise noted, references in this financial supplement to net income (loss), net income (loss) per share, net operating income (loss), net operating income (loss) per share, book value and book value per common share should be read as net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders, net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per share, net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders, net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per share, book value available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders and book value available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per share, respectively.
 
 
Dear Investor,
Once again, thank you for your continued interest in Genworth Financial.
Please feel free to call with any questions or comments.
Regards,
Alicia Charity
Senior Vice President
Investor Relations
804 662.2248
Diana Hickert-Hill
Vice President
Investor Relations
804 662.2643
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This financial supplement includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income (loss)." The chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income (loss). The company defines net operating income (loss) as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. The company excludes net investment gains (losses) and infrequent or unusual non-operating items because the company does not consider them to be related to the operating performance of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities. A component of net investment gains (losses) is the result of impairments, the size and timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment gains (losses) can be subject to the company's discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income (loss) if, in the company's opinion, they are not indicative of overall operating trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders in accordance with GAAP, the company believes that net operating income (loss), and measures that are derived from or incorporate net operating income (loss), are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because they identify the income (loss) attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income (loss) is not a substitute for net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income (loss) may differ from the definitions used by other companies. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders during the periods other than a $106 million tax benefit related to separation from the company's former parent recorded in the first quarter of 2010. The table on page 8 of this financial supplement reflects net operating income (loss) as determined in accordance with accounting guidance related to segment reporting, and a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010. The financial supplement includes other non-GAAP measures management believes enhances the understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. These additional non-GAAP measures are on pages 63 through 66 of this financial supplement.
(
1)
Selected Operating Performance Measures
This financial supplement contains selected operating performance measures including "sales," "assets under management" and "insurance in-force" or "risk in-force" which are commonly used in the insurance and investment industries as measures of operating performance.
Management regularly monitors and reports sales metrics as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. Sales refer to: (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life, long-term care and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, term universal life insurance, linked-benefits, spread-based and variable products; (3) gross and net flows, which represent gross flows less redemptions, for the wealth management business; (4) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where the company earns a fee for administrative services only business, for the lifestyle protection insurance business; (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance; and (6) written premiums, net of cancellations, for the Mexican insurance operations, which in each case reflects the amount of business the company generated during each period presented. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums, premium equivalents and new insurance written to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for the wealth management business, insurance in-force and risk in-force. Assets under management for the wealth management business represent third-party assets under management that are not consolidated in the company's financial statements. Insurance in-force for the life, international mortgage and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. For the risk in-force in the international mortgage insurance business, we have computed an "effective" risk in-force amount, which recognizes that the loss on any particular loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the property. Effective risk in-force has been calculated by applying to insurance in-force a factor of 35% that represents the highest expected average per-claim payment for any one underwriting year over the life of the company's businesses in Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Risk in-force for the U.S. mortgage insurance business is the obligation that is limited under contractual terms to the amounts less than 100% of the mortgage loan value. The company considers assets under management for the wealth management business, insurance in-force and risk in-force to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of the size of the business at a specific date which will generate revenues and profits in a future period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
This financial supplement also includes information related to loss mitigation activities for the U.S. mortgage insurance business. The company defines loss mitigation activities as rescissions, cancellations, borrower loan modifications, repayment plans, lender- and borrower-titled pre-sales and other loan workouts and claim mitigation actions. Estimated savings related to rescissions are the reduction in carried loss reserves, net of premium refunds and reinstatement of prior rescissions. Estimated savings related to loan modifications and other cure related loss mitigation actions represent the reduction in carried loss reserves. For non-cure related actions, includingpre-sales, the estimated savings represent the difference between the full claim obligation and the actual amount paid. The company believes that this information helps to enhance the understanding of the operating performance of the U.S. mortgage insurance business as they specifically impact current and future loss reserves and level of claim payments.
 
These operating measures enable the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management results represent Genworth Financial Wealth Management, Inc., Genworth Financial Investment Services, Inc., Genworth Financial Trust Company, Centurion Financial Advisers, Inc., Quantavis Consulting, Inc. and the Altegris companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the first quarter of 2011, the company began reporting the results of the linked-benefits product for single premium deferred annuities in the spread-based retirement income business. The linked-benefits product for single premium deferred annuities was previously reported in the long-term care insurance business. The amounts associated with this product were not material and the prior period amounts in the financial statements have not been re-presented.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the first quarter of 2011, the company began reporting the results of the linked-benefits product for universal life insurance in the life insurance business. The linked-benefits product for universal life insurance was previously reported in the long-term care insurance business. The amounts associated with this product were not material and the prior period amounts in the financial statements have not been re-presented.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the first quarter of 2011, the company began reporting the results of the linked-benefits product for universal life insurance and single premium deferred annuities in the life insurance and spread-based retirement income businesses, respectively. The linked-benefits product was previously reported in the long-term care insurance business. The amounts associated with this product were not material and the prior period amounts in the financial statements have not been re-presented.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The loss and expense ratios included above were calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All amounts presented in Canadian dollars.
 
 
 
 
 
 
All amounts presented in Australian dollars.
 
 
 
Amounts may not total due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
The loss ratio included above was calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratio calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The expense ratios included above were calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
The loss ratio included above was calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratio calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yields for fixed maturity securities and equity securities are based on amortized cost and cost, respectively. Yields for securities lending activity, which is included in other invested assets, are calculated net of the corresponding securities lending liability.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Operating ROE
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating return on equity" or "operating ROE." The company defines operating ROE as net operating income (loss) divided by average ending Genworth Financial, Inc.'s stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in average ending Genworth Financial, Inc.'s stockholders equity. Management believes that analysis of operating ROE enhances understanding of the efficiency with which the company deploys its capital. However, operating ROE as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders divided by average ending Genworth Financial, Inc.'s stockholders' equity.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Expense Ratio
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "expense ratio" as a measure of productivity. The company defines expense ratio as acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues, excluding the effects of the company's wealth management and lifestyle protection insurance businesses. The wealth management and lifestyle protection insurance businesses are excluded from this ratio as their expense bases are comprised of varying levels of non-deferrable acquisition costs. Management believes that the expense ratio analysis enhances understanding of the productivity of the company. However, the expense ratio as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Premiums
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core premiums" as a measure of premium growth. The company defines core premiums as earned premiums less premiums from the retirement incomespread-based business and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. The retirement incomespread-based premiums are excluded in this measure primarily because these are single premiums and are not an indication of future premiums. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates are excluded in this measure to present periods on a comparable exchange rate. Management believes that analysis of core premiums enhances understanding of premium growth of the company. However, core premiums as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP earned premiums.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Yield
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core yield" as a measure of investment yield. The company defines core yield as the investment yield adjusted for those items that are not recurring in nature. Management believes that analysis of core yield enhances understanding of the investment yield of the company. However, core yield as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP investment yield.
 
 
 
 
The company's principal life insurance subsidiaries are rated in terms of financial strength by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC ("S&P"), Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's"), A.M. Best Company, Inc. ("A.M. Best") and Fitch Ratings ("Fitch") as follows:
 
The company's principal mortgage insurance subsidiaries are rated in terms of financial strength by S&P and Moody's as follows:
 
The company's principal lifestyle protection insurance subsidiaries are rated in terms of financial strength by S&P as follows:
 
 
The S&P, Moody's, A.M. Best, Fitch and DBRS ratings included are not designed to be, and do not serve as, measures of protection or valuation offered to investors. These financial strength ratings should not be relied on with respect to making an investment in the company's securities.
 
 
S&P states that an insurer rated "AA" (Very Strong) has very strong financial security characteristics that outweigh any vulnerabilities, and is highly likely to have the ability to meet financial commitments. Insurers rated "A" (Strong), "BBB" (Good) or "BB" (Marginal) have strong, good, or marginal financial security characteristics, respectively. The "AA," "A", "BBB" and "BB" ranges are the second-, third-, fourth- and fifth-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by S&P, which range from "AAA" to "R." A plus (+) or minus (-) shows relative standing in a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the "AAA" category or to ratings below the "CCC" category. Accordingly, the "AA-," "A," "A-," "BBB" and "BB+" ratings are the fourth-, sixth-, seventh-, ninth- and eleventh-highest of S&P's 21 ratings categories. The short-term "A-1" rating is the highest rating and shows the capacity to meet financial commitments is strong. An obligor rated "mxAA" has a very strong capacity to meet its financial commitments relative to that of other Mexican obligors. The "mxAA" rating is the second-highest enterprise credit rating assigned on S&P's CaVal national scale.
Moody's states that insurance companies rated "A" (Good) offer good financial security and that insurance companies rated "Baa" (Adequate) offer adequate financial security. The "A" (Good) and "Baa" (Adequate) ranges are the third- and fourth-highest, respectively, of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by Moody's, which range from "Aaa" to "C." Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. These modifiers are not added to ratings in the "Aaa" category or to ratings below the "Caa" category. Accordingly, the "A1," "A2," "Baa2" and "Baa3" ratings are the fifth-, sixth-, ninth-and tenth-highest, respectively, of Moody's 21 ratings categories. The short-term rating "P-1" is the highest rating and shows superior ability for repayment of short-term debt obligations. Issuers or issues rated "Aa.mx" demonstrate very strong creditworthiness relative to other issuers in Mexico.
A.M. Best states that the "A" (Excellent) and "A-" (Excellent) ratings are assigned to those companies that have, in its opinion, an excellent ability to meet their ongoing insurance obligations. The "A" (Excellent) and "A-" (Excellent) ratings are the third- and fourth-highest, respectively, of 15 ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from "A++" to "F."
Fitch states that "A" (Strong) rated insurance companies are viewed as possessing strong capacity to meet policyholder and contract obligations. The "A" rating category is the third-highest of nine financial strength rating categories, which range from "AAA" to "C." The symbol (+) or (-) may be appended to a rating to indicate the relative position of a credit within a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the "AAA" category or to ratings below the "B" category. Accordingly, the "A-" rating is the seventh-highest of Fitch's 19 ratings categories.
DBRS states that long-term obligations rated "AA" are of superior credit quality. The capacity for the payment of financial obligations is considered high and unlikely to be significantly variable to future events. Credit quality differs from "AAA" only to a small degree.
S&P, Moody's, A.M. Best, Fitch and DBRS review their ratings periodically and the company cannot assure you that it will maintain the current ratings in the future. Other agencies may also rate the company or its insurance subsidiaries on a solicited or an unsolicited basis.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading financial security company meeting the retirement, longevity and lifestyle protection, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, with a presence in more than 25 countries. For more information, visit www.genworth.com.
Inquiries:
Alicia Charity, 804-662-2248
Alicia.Charity@genworth.com
Diana Hickert-Hill, 804-662-2643
Diana.Hickert-Hill@genworth.com
 


