FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20110720165641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 20, 2011, Genworth Financial, Inc. issued (1) a press release announcing its preliminary financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and (2) a preliminary statistical supplement for U.S. Mortgage Insurance for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibits) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following materials are furnished as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
RICHMOND, VA, July 20, 2011  Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) today announced preliminary results for the second quarter of 2011. The company expects to report an estimated net loss
1
of $92 to $112 million, or $0.19 to $0.23 per diluted share, reflecting a reserve strengthening of approximately $300 million in its U.S. Mortgage Insurance (U.S. MI) business. This compares with net income of $42 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2010. The net operating loss
2
for the quarter is estimated to be $70 to $90 million, or $0.14 to $0.18 per diluted share, compared to net operating income of $118 million, or $0.24 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2010.
The reserve strengthening, together with U.S. MI operating performance, will result in an expected U.S. MI segment level operating loss of $250 to $255 million in the second quarter. The company is executing a non-cash intercompany transaction to provide capital support to the U.S. MI segment. The company will use a portion of its common shares of Genworth MI Canada Inc. with an estimated market value of $375 million, currently held in a non-U.S. subsidiary in the International segment. Including this transaction, which is subject to customary regulatory approval and will be effective in the second quarter on a statutory basis, the U.S. MI segment expects to report a consolidated risk-to-capital ratio of 25:1 to 26:1.
 
 
 
The company estimates the International segment will report operating income of $105 to $110 million in the second quarter, with all operating entities reporting continued sound capital ratios. Total 2011 dividends from the International segment continue to be estimated at approximately $350 million. The company estimates the Retirement and Protection segment will report operating income of $145 to $150 million in the quarter. The consolidated statutory risk based capital (RBC) ratio for the U.S. life companies at the end of the second quarter is expected to be 380 to 390 percent.
Investment performance continued to improve, with net investment income of approximately $880 million, compared to $830 million in the first quarter. After-tax impairments are expected to decline to approximately $20 million in the second quarter. Net unrealized investment gains are expected to be approximately $235 million, net of tax and other items, as of June 30, 2011, compared with net unrealized investment losses of $37 million as of March 31, 2011.
At the end of the second quarter, the holding company had $667 million of cash and highly liquid securities, after retiring $548 million of debt, including preferred stock, that matured during the quarter.
The company's decision to record a reserve strengthening in the second quarter was the result of worsening trends in recent experience associated with its U.S. MI business as well as related market trends in an environment of continuing weakness in the U.S. residential real estate market. U.S. MI results reflect a decline in cure rates during the quarter for delinquent loans and continued aging trends in the delinquent loan inventory. These trends are associated with a range of factors, including slow-moving pipelines of mortgages in some stage of foreclosure and delinquent loans under consideration for loan modifications. Specifically, reduced cure rates were driven by lower borrower self-cures and lower levels of lender loan modifications outside of government-sponsored modification programs. After the reserve strengthening, the average flow reserve per delinquency is $29,200 up from
 
$25,400 at the end of the first quarter. Through the first half of 2011, the business achieved loss mitigation savings of approximately $250 million toward the targeted total year savings of $400 to $500 million. The company maintains new business writing flexibility in all states, supported by risk-to-capital waivers in 46 states in its primary writing entity, with the remaining four states written out of other available entities.
Additional information regarding investments and cash positions and a preliminary statistical supplement for U.S. MI, including additional tables on U.S. MI reserving, are posted on the company's website, . Genworth is completing its financial close process and will issue its earnings release and financial supplement containing second quarter results after the market closes on July 28, 2011. As previously announced, a conference call will be held on July 29, 2011 at 9:00 a.m. (ET) to discuss the quarter's results. The earnings release and second quarter financial supplement will be available through the company's website, , at the time of their release to the public.
http://genworth.com/investor
http://genworth.com/investor
About Genworth Financial
Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) is a leading Fortune 500 insurance holding company with more than $100 billion in assets that is dedicated to helping people secure their financial lives, families and futures. Genworth has leadership positions in offerings that assist consumers in protecting themselves, investing for the future and planning for retirement  including life insurance, long term care insurance, financial protection coverages, and independent advisor-based wealth management  and mortgage insurance that helps consumers achieve homeownership while assisting lenders in managing their risk and capital.
Genworth has approximately 6,500 employees and operates through three segments: Retirement and Protection, U.S. Mortgage Insurance and International. Its products and services are offered through financial intermediaries, advisors, independent distributors and sales specialists. Genworth Financial, which traces its roots back to 1871, became a public company in 2004 and is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia. For more information, visit Genworth.com. From time to time, Genworth releases important information via postings on its corporate website. Accordingly, investors and other interested parties are
 
encouraged to enroll to receive automatic email alerts and Really Simple Syndication (RSS) feeds regarding new postings. Enrollment information is found under the "Investors" section of Genworth.com.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income (loss)." The chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders. The company defines net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. This metric excludes net investment gains (losses) and infrequent or unusual non-operating items because the company does not consider them to be related to the operating performance of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities. A component of the company's net investment gains (losses) is the result of impairments, the size and timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment gains (losses) can be subject to the company's discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders if, in the company's opinion, they are not indicative of overall operating trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders in accordance with GAAP, the company believes that net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders and measures that are derived from or incorporate net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders, including net operating income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis, are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because they identify the income (loss) attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common
 
stockholders and net operating income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis are not substitutes for net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders or net income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders may differ from the definitions used by other companies. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders during the periods presented. The table at the end of this press release is a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) to net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010.
Definition of Selected Operating Performance Measures
This press release includes information related to loss mitigation activities for the U.S. mortgage insurance business. The company defines loss mitigation activities as rescissions, cancellations, borrower loan modifications, repayment plans, lender- and borrower-titled presales and other loan workouts and claim mitigation actions. Estimated savings related to rescissions are the reduction in carried loss reserves, net of premium refunds and reinstatement of prior rescissions. Estimated savings related to loan modifications and other cure related loss mitigation actions represent the reduction in carried loss reserves. For non-cure related actions, including presales, the estimated savings represent the difference between the full claim obligation and the actual amount paid. The company believes that this information helps to enhance the understanding of the operating performance of the U.S. mortgage insurance business as they specifically impact current and future loss reserves and level of claim payments.
This operating measure enables the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
As the company has not completed its quarterly financial close process and its analysis of the second quarter of 2011, the results presented in this press release are estimated and preliminary and, therefore, may change.
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will" or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
Contact Information:
Investors  Diana Hickert-Hill, 804 662.2643
diana.hickert-hill@genworth.com
Media  Al Orendorff, 804 662.2534
al.orendorff@genworth.com
www.genworth.com/presscenter
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Note:
As the company has not completed its quarterly financial close process and its analysis of the second quarter of 2011, the results presented in this statistical supplement are estimated and preliminary and, therefore, may change.
Selected Operating Performance Measures
This preliminary statistical supplement contains selected operating performance measures including "insurance in-force" or "risk in-force" which are commonly used in the insurance and investment industries as measures of operating performance.
Management regularly monitors and reports insurance in-force and risk in-force for the U.S. mortgage insurance business. Insurance in-force is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. Risk in-force is the obligation that is limited under contractual terms to the amounts less than 100% of the mortgage loan value. The company considers insurance in-force and risk in-force to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of the size of the business at a specific date which will generate revenues and profits in a future period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
This preliminary statistical supplement also includes information related to loss mitigation activities for the U.S. mortgage insurance business. The company defines loss mitigation activities as rescissions, cancellations, borrower loan modifications, repayment plans, lender- and borrower-titled presales, claims curtailment and other loan workouts and claim mitigation actions. Estimated savings related to rescissions are the reduction in carried loss reserves, net of premium refunds and reinstatement of prior rescissions. Estimated savings related to loan modifications and other cure related loss mitigation actions represent the reduction in carried loss reserves. For non-cure related actions, including presales, the estimated savings represent the difference between the full claim obligation and the actual amount paid. The company believes that this information helps to enhance the understanding of the operating performance of the U.S. mortgage insurance business as they specifically impact current and future loss reserves and level of claim payments.
These operating measures enable the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
 
 
 
The expense ratios included above were calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
The loss ratio included above was calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratio calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


