FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20120202163357.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 2, 2012, Genworth Financial, Inc. issued (1) a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2011, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and (2) a financial supplement for the quarter ended December 31, 2011, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibits) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
 
The following materials are furnished as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Richmond, VA (February 2, 2012)  Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) today reported results for the fourth quarter of 2011. The company reported net income
1
of $107 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, compared with a net loss of $161 million, or $0.33 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2010. Net operating income
2
for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $86 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, compared with a net operating loss of $135 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2010.
"For Genworth, 2011 was a year of repositioning actions to move the company through an uncertain environment and provide a foundation for improved shareholder value. We made progress in several areas and will maintain an intense execution focus during 2012. At business portfolio and product line levels, we took important steps to improve our focus, strengthen risk buffers and capital generation, and support future redeployment of capital," said Michael D. Fraizer, chairman and chief executive officer. "Actions completed or that we continue to pursue include, the planned minority IPO of Australia Mortgage Insurance, shifting new business mix and volumes, selling or exiting non-strategic lines and blocks of business, further streamlining our cost base, and adding to our holding company capital flexibility. Fourth quarter earnings improved from the prior year driven by U.S. Life Insurance and U.S. Mortgage Insurance (U.S. MI) results. International platform capital generation remained strong."
 
 
Consolidated Net Income (Loss) &
Net Operating Income (Loss)
 
Net investment gains, net of tax and other adjustments, were $1 million in the quarter compared to net investment losses of $26 million in the prior year.
Beginning in the quarter, the company resegmented its financial presentation as it began to operate through three divisions: Insurance and Wealth Management, Mortgage Insurance and Corporate and Runoff. Under these divisions, there are six operating business segments. The Insurance and Wealth Management Division is comprised of U.S. Life Insurance, which includes life insurance, long term care insurance (LTC) and fixed annuities, International Protection, which includes the lifestyle protection insurance business, and Wealth Management. The Mortgage Insurance Division includes International Mortgage Insurance and U.S. Mortgage Insurance. The Corporate and Runoff Division is comprised of the Runoff segment, which includes variable annuities, small remaining blocks of Medicare supplement insurance following the sale of the business, institutional products and other non-strategic lines, and Corporate and Other activities.
During 2012, the company will be implementing the new accounting guidance related to accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts as well as a change in its accounting policy for policy benefit reserves for its level premium term life insurance products, as discussed later in this release.
 
Net operating income (loss) results are summarized in the table below:
Net Operating Income (Loss)
 
Net operating income (loss) excludes net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments, net of taxes. A reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income (loss) is included at the end of this press release. A non-cash impairment charge of $19 million after-tax was recorded in the quarter in Corporate and Other activities to write-off all of the goodwill associated with the reverse mortgage business.
Unless specifically noted in the discussion of results for the International Protection and International Mortgage Insurance segments, references to percentage changes exclude the impact of foreign exchange. Percentage changes including the impact of foreign exchange are found in a table at the end of this press release. In the fourth quarter of 2011, foreign exchange had an $8 million favorable impact on net operating income versus the prior year and a $3 million unfavorable impact versus the prior quarter.
 
Insurance and Wealth Management Division
Insurance and Wealth Management Division earnings increased 12 percent to $145 million, compared with $130 million a year ago, driven by U.S. Life Insurance results.
Insurance and Wealth Management Division
Net Operating Income
 
Sales
3
 
Assets Under Management
4
 
 
 
U.S. Life Insurance Segment
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Life Insurance segment earnings increased 14 percent to $114 million, compared with $100 million a year ago. The primary operating drivers for this performance included:
 
 
Life insurance earnings were $60 million, compared with $42 million in the prior year. Current quarter earnings reflect a $10 million benefit from sound new business performance and a $4 million after-tax gain related to selective repurchases of notes secured by non-recourse funding obligations, partially offset by sound but less favorable mortality of $4 million and lower investment income from bond calls and limited partnerships. In addition, as part of conversion to a new actuarial system, reserve refinements resulted in a $10 million favorable impact. Sales growth moderated sequentially as pricing was raised for targeted products in response to factors such as low interest rates, while for other products the company chose not to follow certain competitors' price reductions.
 
 
Long term care earnings were $38 million, compared with $37 million in the prior year. The loss ratio remained stable at 67 percent, excluding a prior year reserve strengthening, as lower claim termination rates and higher new claims were offset by the favorable impact of premium rate increases on older issued policies and higher active policy terminations. Results in the current quarter also include favorable taxes of $6 million. The company is currently implementing a previously announced premium rate increase of approximately 18 percent on the majority of older issued policies. As of December 31, 2011, the company had received approvals for price increases in 39 states, representing approximately 65 percent of the targeted premiums. Individual long term care sales increased to $56 million during the quarter, reflecting an acceleration of prior-generation product sales as part of the transition to the new product generation, which was introduced in August and incorporates higher pricing.
Fixed annuities earnings were $16 million, compared with $20 million in the prior quarter, including a $4 million unfavorable impact related to accruals for state guarantee fund assessments. Sales in the quarter totaled $363 million and were lower sequentially, driven by changes to interest crediting rates implemented to further improve margins in the current low rate environment. During the quarter, the company introduced two new indexed annuity products designed to enhance its fixed annuity offerings.
The RBC ratio is estimated to have increased to 405 percent
5
from approximately 365 percent on a sequential basis. The company completed the Medicare supplement sale in the quarter which positively impacted the ratio. Additionally, targeted interest rate swaps were unwound and reestablished resulting in gains. While these gains were deferred for both GAAP and statutory purposes, tax benefits associated with the transaction increased the RBC ratio and unassigned surplus.
International Protection Segment
Highlights
 
 
 
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, International Protection earnings decreased 21 percent
6
from the prior year and 28 percent
6
sequentially, as decreased revenues from lower new sales in smaller European origination markets, increased regulatory expenses and investments in new markets more than offset a one point sequential improvement in the loss ratio. At quarter end, the lifestyle protection business had a regulatory capital ratio of approximately 283 percent
5
.
 
 
Wealth Management Segment
Highlights
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management earned $12 million, compared to $11 million in the prior year and $12 million in the prior quarter. Assets under management (AUM) increased $474 million sequentially to $25.1 billion. Net flows for the quarter were negative $16 million, related to market conditions and the movement of a legacy block of managed accounts. Margins as a percentage of average AUM
7
increased 11 percent from the prior year, primarily from the 2010 acquisition of the Altegris companies as well as strong expense discipline. The acquisition of Altegris companies, a leading provider of alternative investment solutions, and the announced disposition of GFIS have positioned Wealth Management to enhance its focus on turnkey asset management businesses. Total advisors with assets on the platform were over 6,500 at the end of 2011, representing the addition of over 820 new advisors during 2011.
 
 
Mortgage Insurance Division
Mortgage Insurance Division net operating loss was $16 million, compared with a net operating loss of $254 million a year ago, driven by U.S. Mortgage Insurance results.
Mortgage Insurance Division
Net Operating Income (Loss)
 
Sales
 
International Mortgage Insurance Segment
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
International Mortgage Insurance earnings, excluding foreign exchange, decreased 24 percent
6
compared to a year ago, primarily from increased loss levels in Canada, Australia and Ireland, along with higher interest expense.
Canadian operating earnings decreased 15 percent
6
from the prior year primarily from increased loss provisions. The loss ratio in the quarter was 40 percent, up from 36 percent in the prior quarter and up eight points from the prior year, reflecting an increase in reserves related to higher severities on existing delinquencies and a seasonal increase in new delinquencies, net of cures. Flow NIW in Canada decreased nine percent
6
year over year, reflecting a smaller mortgage origination market associated with tightened government mortgage guidelines. At quarter end, the Canada mortgage insurance business had a regulatory capital ratio of 162 percent
5
and GAAP book value of $2.7 billion, of which $1.5 billion represented Genworth's 57.5 percent ownership interest.
Australia operating earnings decreased nine percent
6
from the prior year, reflecting reserve additions for prior delinquencies where lenders accelerated actions to move these loans through to claim and higher severity experience in the New Zealand run-off portfolio partially offset by a decrease in new delinquencies, including reductions in Queensland. The loss ratio was 46 percent in the quarter, up nine points from prior year, but down two points from the prior quarter as a result of the decrease in new delinquencies. Flow NIW increased 27 percent
6
compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting a larger origination market. The business continues to expand its reinsurance program as part of risk and capital management strategies. The potential tax charge from the planned Australia initial public offering (IPO)
8
communicated as part of the company's third quarter 2011 earnings call did not occur as changes in structuring of the IPO minimized related impacts. At quarter end, the Australia mortgage insurance business had a regulatory capital ratio of 157 percent
5
and GAAP book value of $2.1 billion.
Other Countries operating results decreased $12 million from the prior year from increased losses relating to higher new delinquencies in Ireland and higher taxes. Loss mitigation efforts together with the prior suspension of new business activities continue to reduce the exposure in Ireland, which is less than one percent of total international mortgage insurance exposure.
 
 
 
U.S. Mortgage Insurance Segment
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
The U.S. MI segment had a $94 million net operating loss, reflecting a decrease in new delinquency development along with a favorable geographical mix of new delinquencies, fewer net cures associated with lower levels of loan modifications and a stable delinquency aging profile.
Total flow delinquencies decreased nine percent from the prior year and decreased one percent sequentially. New flow delinquencies declined approximately 15 percent from prior year and decreased approximately six percent from the prior quarter, reflecting the continuing burn through of delinquencies from the 2005 to 2008 book years. The flow average reserve per delinquency was $29,100, up slightly from $28,800 in the third quarter, driven by modest mix changes in new and existing delinquencies. Paid claims decreased 11 percent from the prior year, driven by a 26 percent decline in claim counts and a reduction in severity from claims mitigation, partially offset by a decline in captive benefits. Sequentially, paid claims decreased six percent.
Loss mitigation savings were $147 million in the quarter, down 13 percent from the prior quarter, as workouts declined with the wind down of the government Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) modifications. Savings for the full year 2011 were $567 million, exceeding the targeted $400 to $500 million full year benefit.
Flow NIW increased 23 percent over the prior year and 19 percent sequentially, reflecting the continued shift away from the FHA, fewer competitors and a larger origination market driven by refinancing activity. Flow persistency was down five points on a sequential basis to 81 percent, from slightly higher lapses associated with refinance activity and cancellation of particular single premium product loans. The company's market share remains stable despite the exit of some competitors from the market, as it maintained pricing and guideline discipline and did not expand underwriting delegation to lenders. In addition, the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) accounted for about $700 million of insurance that is treated as a modification of the coverage on existing insurance in force rather than NIW.
 
The combined U.S. MI statutory risk-to-capital ratio is estimated to be 28.8:1
5
at the end of the fourth quarter with the risk-to-capital ratio for Genworth Mortgage Insurance Corporation (GEMICO), the company's primary mortgage insurance company estimated to be 32.9:1
5
. GEMICO currently maintains waivers or other authorizations from 44 states that permit the company to continue writing new business while its risk-to-capital ratio exceeds 25.0:1. Additionally, the company has separately capitalized and licensed legal entities to write new business for states where waivers are not in place. Currently, new business in five states is being written out of Genworth Residential Mortgage Assurance Corporation (GRMAC), a subsidiary of GEMICO.
Corporate and Runoff Division
Corporate and Runoff division net operating loss was $43 million, compared with $11 million in the prior year.
Corporate and Runoff Division
Net Operating Income (Loss)
 
Assets Under Management
4
 
Runoff Segment
The Runoff segment's net operating income was $20 million, compared with $34 million in the prior year, driven primarily by the sale of the Medicare supplement business and fixed maturity bond redemptions in the prior year that did not recur. Improved market performance drove a $37 million sequential improvement in variable annuities.
 
Corporate and Other
Corporate and Other's net operating loss was $63 million, compared with $45 million in the prior year quarter, driven primarily by a $19 million after-tax impairment of all the goodwill associated with the reverse mortgage business.
Investment Portfolio Performance
Investment income declined modestly, impacted by the lower income on limited partnerships, with net investment income of $827 million, compared to $842 million in the third quarter. The core yield
2
decreased 15 basis points sequentially to 4.6 percent.
Net income in the quarter included $1 million of net investment gains, net of tax and DAC amortization of $3 million.
Net unrealized investment gains were $1.5 billion, net of tax and other items, as of December 31, 2011, compared with net losses of $100 million as of December 31, 2010 and net gains of $1.5 billion as of September 30, 2011. The fixed-maturity securities portfolio had gross unrealized investment gains of $5.1 billion compared with $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2010 and gross unrealized investment losses of $1.4 billion compared with $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2010.
Holding Company
Genworth's holding company ended the quarter with approximately $950 million of cash and highly liquid securities, up approximately $250 million sequentially as the company has continued to execute strategies that enhance capital flexibility and risk buffers. The holding company received approximately $478 million in operating company dividends on a full year basis and $354 million in the fourth quarter. The holding company targets maintaining cash balances of at least two times its annual debt service expense. The holding company has $222 million of debt maturities in 2012 and no debt maturities in 2013.
Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncement and Other Accounting Changes
Accounting For Costs Associated With Acquiring Or Renewing Insurance Contracts
As previously reported, in October 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued new accounting guidance related to accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts. This new accounting guidance was effective for Genworth on January 1, 2012. The new guidance is effective
 
prospectively with retrospective adoption allowed. Genworth has adopted this new guidance retrospectively, and will re-present certain historical financial statements beginning at the time of the filing of its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2012. Genworth expects that this new guidance will reduce retained earnings and stockholders' equity by approximately $1.4 billion as of January 1, 2012 and will reduce net income (loss) by $63 million, $86 million and $12 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Accounting For The Liability Of Future Policy Benefits Of Level Premium Term Life Insurance Products
On January 1, 2012, the company elected to change its accounting policy for the liability for future policy benefits (i.e., policy benefit reserves) of its level premium term life insurance products when the liability for an individual policy falls below zero. To date, approximately $2.0 billion of aggregate policy benefit reserves have been recorded on level premium term life insurance products under the historical accounting policy. Some of the individual policy benefit reserves are negative (i.e., amounts less than zero) which are being netted against policies with positive benefit reserve values.
The historical GAAP compliant accounting policy strictly followed the accounting for traditional, long-duration insurance contracts where profits emerge as a level percentage of premiums based on assumptions determined on the policy issuance date including mortality, interest and lapse rates. For products with an increasing premium stream, this can only occur if individual policy benefit reserve values are permitted to go negative. The company's new accounting policy is to floor individual policy benefit reserve values at zero based on more recent accounting guidance for long duration contracts that follows an approach which emphasizes the balance sheet over the income statement.
The company believes that flooring policy benefit reserves at zero is preferable as this alternative accounting policy will not allow negative reserves for individual policies to be included in the overall determination of benefit reserves. In implementing this change in accounting, no changes were made to the assumptions locked-in at policy inception. The accounting change will be implemented retrospectively, which will reduce retained earnings and stockholders' equity by approximately $120 million as of January 1, 2012 and will reduce net income (loss) by approximately $10 million, $4 million and $32 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
About Genworth Financial
Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) is a leading Fortune 500 insurance holding company dedicated to helping people secure their financial lives, families and futures. Genworth has leadership positions in offerings that assist consumers in protecting themselves, investing for the future and planning for retirement  including life insurance, long term care insurance, financial protection coverages, and independent advisor-based wealth management  and mortgage insurance that helps consumers achieve home ownership while assisting lenders in managing their risk and capital.
Genworth has approximately 6,400 employees and operates through three divisions: Insurance and Wealth Management, which includes U.S. Life Insurance, Wealth Management and International Protection segments; Mortgage Insurance, which includes U.S. and International Mortgage Insurance segments; and the Corporate and Runoff division. Its products and services are offered through financial intermediaries, advisors, independent distributors and sales specialists. Genworth Financial, Inc., which traces its roots back to 1871, became a public company in 2004 and is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia. For more information, visit genworth.com. From time to time, Genworth Financial, Inc. releases important information via postings on its corporate website. Accordingly, investors and other interested parties are encouraged to enroll to receive automatic email alerts and Really Simple Syndication (RSS) feeds regarding new postings. Enrollment information is found under the "Investors" section of genworth.com.
Conference Call and Financial Supplement Information
This press release and the fourth quarter 2011 financial supplement are now posted on the company's website. Additional information regarding U.S. mortgage insurance and investments is also posted on the company's website, . Investors are encouraged to review all of these materials.
http://investor.genworth.com
Genworth will conduct a conference call on February 3, 2012 at 9 a.m. (ET) to discuss the quarter's results. At 11:00 a.m. (ET), following the earnings call of Genworth MI Canada Inc., the company will host a second one-hour call to discuss 2012 business goals and focus areas. The presentation materials for this call will be available at 10:00 a.m. (ET). Both conference calls will be accessible via telephone and the Internet. The dial-in number for both conference calls is 866 393.0571 or 206 453.2872 (outside the U.S.). To participate in the call by webcast, register at at least 15 minutes prior to the webcast to download and install any necessary software.
http://investor.genworth.com
Replays of both calls will be available through February 17, 2012 at 855 859.2056 or 404 537.3406 (outside the U.S.); the conference ID # for the 9:00  10:00 a.m. (ET) call is # 34250287 and the conference ID # for the 11:00 a.m.  12:00 p.m. (ET) call is 41200887. The webcasts will also be archived on the company's website.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income (loss)." The chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders. The company defines net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. This metric excludes net investment gains (losses) and infrequent or unusual non-operating items because the company does not consider them to be related to the operating performance of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities. A component of the company's net investment gains (losses) is the result of impairments, the size and timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment gains (losses) can be subject to the company's discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders if, in the company's opinion, they are not indicative of overall operating trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders in accordance with GAAP, the company believes that net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders and measures that are derived from or incorporate net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders, including net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis, are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because they identify the income (loss) attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders and net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis are not substitutes for net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders or net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders may differ from the definitions used by other companies. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders during the periods presented other than a $20 million gain related to the sale of the Medicare supplement insurance business recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011 and a $106 million tax benefit related to separation from the company's former parent recorded in the first quarter of 2010. The tables at the end of this press release reflect net operating income (loss) as determined in accordance with accounting guidance related to segment reporting and a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating revenue." The company defines operating revenue as revenue excluding net investment gains (losses). The company believes that operating revenue and measures that are derived from or incorporate operating revenue, is an appropriate measure that is useful to investors because it identifies the revenue attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, operating revenue is not a substitute for revenue determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company's definition of operating revenue may differ from the definitions used by other companies.
This press release also includes the non-GAAP measure entitled "operating margin" related to the lifestyle protection business. The company defines operating margin as income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes excluding net investment gains (losses) divided by total revenues excluding net investment gains (losses). Management believes that this analysis of operating margin enhances the understanding of the lifestyle protection business. However, operating margin as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP margin. In addition, the company's definition of operating margin may differ from the definitions used by other companies.
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core yield" as a measure of investment yield. The company defines core yield as the investment yield adjusted for those items that are not recurring in nature. Management believes that analysis of core yield enhances understanding of the investment yield of the company. However, core yield as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP investment yield. In addition, the company's definition of core yield may differ from the definitions used by other companies. A reconciliation of core yield to reported GAAP yield is included in a table at the end of this press release.
Definition of Selected Operating Performance Measures
The company reports selected operating performance measures including "sales," "assets under management" and "insurance in force" or "risk in force" which are commonly used in the insurance and investment industries as measures of operating performance.
Management regularly monitors and reports sales metrics as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. Sales refer to: (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life, long term care and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal and term universal life insurance, linked benefits, fixed and variable products; (3) gross flows and net flows, which
 
represent gross flows less redemptions, for the wealth management business; (4) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where the company earns a fee for administrative services only business, for the lifestyle protection insurance business; and (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums, premium equivalents and new insurance written to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for the wealth management business, insurance in force and risk in force. Assets under management for the wealth management business represent third-party assets under management that are not consolidated in the company's financial statements. Insurance in force for the life, international mortgage and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. For the risk in force in the international mortgage insurance business, the company has computed an "effective" risk in force amount, which recognizes that the loss on any particular loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the property. Effective risk in force has been calculated by applying to insurance in force a factor of 35 percent that represents the highest expected average per-claim payment for any one underwriting year over the life of the company's businesses in Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Risk in force for the U.S. mortgage insurance business is the obligation that is limited under contractual terms to the amounts less than 100 percent of the mortgage loan value. The company considers assets under management for the wealth management business, insurance in force and risk in force to be measures of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of the size of the business at a specific date which will generate revenues and profits in a future period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
This press release also includes information related to loss mitigation activities for the U.S. mortgage insurance business. The company defines loss mitigation activities as rescissions, cancellations, borrower loan modifications, repayment plans, lender- and borrower-titled presales, claims administration and other loan workouts. Estimated savings related to rescissions are the reduction in carried loss reserves, net of premium refunds and reinstatement of prior rescissions. Estimated savings related to loan modifications and other cure related loss mitigation actions represent the reduction in carried loss reserves. For non-cure related actions, including presales, the estimated savings represent the difference between the full claim obligation and the actual amount paid. The company believes that this information helps to enhance the understanding of the operating performance of the U.S. mortgage insurance business as loss mitigation activities specifically impact current and future loss reserves and level of claim payments.
 
These operating measures enable the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will" or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
:
Contact Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Note:
Unless otherwise noted, references in this financial supplement to net income (loss), net income (loss) per share, net operating income (loss), net operating income (loss) per share, book value and book value per common share should be read as net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders, net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per share, net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders, net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per share, book value available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders and book value available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per share, respectively.
 
Dear Investor,
In conjunction with Genworth's realignment announced in fourth quarter 2011, the fourth quarter financial supplement has been re-presented to reflect the following changes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The revisions to the financial supplement relate solely to the presentation of segment specific disclosures and do not reflect any subsequent accounting changes.
Once again, thank you for your continued interest in Genworth Financial.
Please feel free to call with any questions or comments.
Regards,
Georgette Nicholas
Investor Relations
804 662.2248
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This financial supplement includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income (loss)." The chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders. The company defines net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. The company excludes net investment gains (losses) and infrequent or unusual non-operating items because the company does not consider them to be related to the operating performance of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities. A component of the company's net investment gains (losses) is the result of impairments, the size and timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment gains (losses) can be subject to the company's discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders if, in the company's opinion, they are not indicative of overall operating trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders in accordance with GAAP, the company believes that net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders and measures that are derived from or incorporate net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders, including net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis, are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because they identify the income (loss) attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders and net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis are not substitutes for net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders or net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders may differ from the definitions used by other companies. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders during the periods presented other than a $20 million after-tax gain related to the sale of the Medicare supplement insurance business recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011 and a $106 million tax benefit related to separation from the company's former parent recorded in the first quarter of 2010. The table on page 8 of this financial supplement reflects net operating income (loss) as determined in accordance with accounting guidance related to segment reporting, and a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. The financial supplement includes other non-GAAP measures management believes enhances the understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. These additional non-GAAP measures are on pages 75 through 78 of this financial supplement.
(
1)
Selected Operating Performance Measures
This financial supplement contains selected operating performance measures including "sales," "assets under management" and "insurance in-force" or "risk in-force" which are commonly used in the insurance and investment industries as measures of operating performance.
Management regularly monitors and reports sales metrics as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. Sales refer to: (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life, long-term care and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal and term universal life insurance, linked-benefits, spread-based and variable products; (3) gross flows and net flows, which represent gross flows less redemptions, for the wealth management business; (4) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where the company earns a fee for administrative services only business, for the lifestyle protection insurance business; and (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums, premium equivalents and new insurance written to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for the wealth management business, insurance in-force and risk in-force. Assets under management for the wealth management business represent third-party assets under management that are not consolidated in the company's financial statements. Insurance in-force for the life, international mortgage and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. For the risk in-force in the international mortgage insurance business, the company has computed an "effective" risk in-force amount, which recognizes that the loss on any particular loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the property. Effective risk in-force has been calculated by applying to insurance in-force a factor of 35% that represents the highest expected average per-claim payment for any one underwriting year over the life of the company's businesses in Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Risk in-force for the U.S. mortgage insurance business is the obligation that is limited under contractual terms to the amounts less than 100% of the mortgage loan value. The company considers assets under management for the wealth management business, insurance in-force and risk in-force to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of the size of the business at a specific date which will generate revenues and profits in a future period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
This financial supplement also includes information related to loss mitigation activities for the U.S. mortgage insurance business. The company defines loss mitigation activities as rescissions, cancellations, borrower loan modifications, repayment plans, lender- and borrower-titled presales, claims administration and other loan workouts. Estimated savings related to rescissions are the reduction in carried loss reserves, net of premium refunds and reinstatement of prior rescissions. Estimated savings related to loan modifications and other cure related loss mitigation actions represent the reduction in carried loss reserves. For non-cure related actions, includingpresales, the estimated savings represent the difference between the full claim obligation and the actual amount paid. The company believes that this information helps to enhance the understanding of the operating performance of the U.S. mortgage insurance business as loss mitigation activities specifically impact current and future loss reserves and level of claim payments.
 
These operating measures enable the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the first quarter of 2011, the company began reporting the results of the linked-benefits product for universal life insurance in the life insurance business. The linked-benefits product for universal life insurance was previously reported in the long-term care insurance business. The amounts associated with this product were not material and the prior period amounts in the financial statements have not been re-presented.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the first quarter of 2011, the company began reporting the results of the linked-benefits product for universal life insurance and fixed annuities in the life insurance and fixed annuities businesses, respectively. The linked-benefits product was previously reported in the long-term care insurance business. The amounts associated with this product were not material and the prior period amounts in the financial statements have not been re-presented.
 
 
 
 
In the first quarter of 2011, the company began reporting the results of the linked-benefits product for single premium deferred annuities in the fixed annuities business. The linked-benefits product for single premium deferred annuities was previously reported in the long-term care insurance business. The amounts associated with this product were not material and the prior period amounts in the financial statements have not been re-presented.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The loss ratio included above was calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratio calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management results represent Genworth Financial Wealth Management, Inc., Genworth Financial Investment Services, Inc., Genworth Financial Trust Company, Centurion Financial Advisers, Inc.,
Quantavis Consulting, Inc. and the Altegris companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The loss and expense ratios included above were calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All amounts presented in Canadian dollars.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All amounts presented in Australian dollars.
 
 
 
 
Amounts may not total due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The expense ratios included above were calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
The loss ratio included above was calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratio calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yields for fixed maturity securities and equity securities are based on amortized cost and cost, respectively. Yields for securities lending activity, which is included in other invested assets, are calculated net of the corresponding securities lending liability.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Operating ROE
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating return on equity" or "operating ROE." The company defines operating ROE as net operating income (loss) divided by average ending Genworth Financial, Inc.'s stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in average ending Genworth Financial, Inc.'s stockholders equity. Management believes that analysis of operating ROE enhances understanding of the efficiency with which the company deploys its capital. However, operating ROE as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders divided by average ending Genworth Financial, Inc.'s stockholders' equity.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Expense Ratio
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "expense ratio" as a measure of productivity. The company defines expense ratio as acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues, excluding the effects of the company's lifestyle protection insurance and wealth management businesses. The lifestyle protection insurance and wealth management businesses are excluded from this ratio as their expense bases are comprised of varying levels of non-deferrable acquisition costs. Management believes that the expense ratio analysis enhances understanding of the productivity of the company. However, the expense ratio as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Premiums
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core premiums" as a measure of premium growth. The company defines core premiums as earned premiums less premiums from the U.S. Life Insurance - fixed annuities business and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. The fixed annuities premiums are excluded in this measure primarily because these are single premiums and are not an indication of future premiums. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates are excluded in this measure to present periods on a comparable exchange rate. Management believes that analysis of core premiums enhances understanding of premium growth of the company. However, core premiums as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP earned premiums.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Yield
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core yield" as a measure of investment yield. The company defines core yield as the investment yield adjusted for those items that are not recurring in nature. Management believes that analysis of core yield enhances understanding of the investment yield of the company. However, core yield as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP investment yield.
 
 
 
 
The company's principal life insurance subsidiaries are rated in terms of financial strength by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC ("S&P"), Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's"), A.M. Best Company, Inc. ("A.M. Best") and Fitch Ratings ("Fitch") as follows:
 
The company's principal lifestyle protection insurance subsidiaries are rated in terms of financial strength by S&P as follows:
 
The company's principal mortgage insurance subsidiaries are rated in terms of financial strength by S&P and Moody's as follows:
 
 
The S&P, Moody's, A.M. Best, Fitch and DBRS ratings included are not designed to be, and do not serve as, measures of protection or valuation offered to investors. These financial strength ratings should not be relied on with respect to making an investment in the company's securities.
 
 
S&P states that an insurer rated "AA" (Very Strong) has very strong financial security characteristics that outweigh any vulnerabilities, and is highly likely to have the ability to meet financial commitments. Insurers rated "AA" (Very Strong), "A" (Strong), "BBB" (Good) or "B" (Weak) have very strong, strong, good, or weak financial security characteristics, respectively. The "AA," "A", "BBB" and "B" ranges are the second-, third-, fourth- and sixth-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by S&P, which range from "AAA" to "R." A plus (+) or minus (-) shows relative standing in a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the "AAA" category or to ratings below the "CCC" category. Accordingly, the "AA-," "A," "A-," "BBB" and "B" ratings are the fourth-, sixth-, seventh-, ninth- and fifteenth-highest of S&P's 21 ratings categories. The short-term "A-1" rating is the highest rating and shows the capacity to meet financial commitments is strong. An obligor rated "mxAA" has a very strong capacity to meet its financial commitments relative to that of other Mexican obligors. The "mxAA" rating is the second-highest enterprise credit rating assigned on S&P's CaVal national scale.
Moody's states that insurance companies rated "A" (Good) offer good financial security and those rated "Ba" (Questionable) offer questionable financial security. The "A" (Good) and "Ba" (Questionable) ranges are the third- and fifth-highest, respectively, of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by Moody's, which range from "Aaa" to "C." Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. These modifiers are not added to ratings in the "Aaa" category or to ratings below the "Caa" category. Accordingly, the "A1," "A2," "Ba1", ratings are the fifth-, sixth-, and eleventh-highest, respectively, of Moody's 21 ratings categories. The short-term rating "P-1" is the highest rating and shows superior ability for repayment of short-term debt obligations. Issuers or issues rated "Aa.mx" demonstrate very strong creditworthiness relative to other issuers in Mexico.
A.M. Best states that the "A" (Excellent) rating is assigned to those companies that have, in its opinion, an excellent ability to meet their ongoing insurance obligations. The "A" (Excellent) rating is the third-highest, of 15 ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from "A++" to "F."
Fitch states that "A" (Strong) rated insurance companies are viewed as possessing strong capacity to meet policyholder and contract obligations. The "A" rating category is the third-highest of nine financial strength rating categories, which range from "AAA" to "C." The symbol (+) or (-) may be appended to a rating to indicate the relative position of a credit within a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the "AAA" category or to ratings below the "B" category. Accordingly, the "A-" rating is the seventh-highest of Fitch's 19 ratings categories.
DBRS states that long-term obligations rated "AA" are of superior credit quality. The capacity for the payment of financial obligations is considered high and unlikely to be significantly variable to future events. Credit quality differs from "AAA" only to a small degree.
S&P, Moody's, A.M. Best, Fitch and DBRS review their ratings periodically and the company cannot assure you that it will maintain the current ratings in the future. Other agencies may also rate the company or its insurance subsidiaries on a solicited or an unsolicited basis.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading financial security company meeting the retirement, longevity and lifestyle protection, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, with a presence in more than 25 countries. For more information, visit www.genworth.com.
Inquiries:
Georgette Nicholas, 804-662-2248
Georgette.Nicholas@genworth.com
 


