FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20120521162207.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders of Genworth Financial, Inc. ("Genworth") held on May 17, 2012 (the "Annual Meeting"), the holders of Genworth's Class A Common Stock entitled to vote at the meeting approved the 2012 Genworth Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the "2012 Plan"). The Genworth Board of Directors previously approved the 2012 Plan on March 14, 2012, subject to stockholder approval at the Annual Meeting. A description of the material terms of the 2012 Plan was included in Genworth's definitive proxy statement relating to the Annual Meeting as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 4, 2012, and is incorporated herein by reference. The aggregate number of shares of Genworth's Class A Common Stock reserved and available for issuance pursuant to awards granted under the 2012 Plan is 16,000,000, plus a number of shares (not to exceed 25,000,000) underlying awards outstanding as of May 17, 2012 under Genworth's 2004 Omnibus Incentive Plan that thereafter terminate or expire unexercised, or are cancelled, forfeited or lapse for any reason.
As previously disclosed, effective as of May 1, 2012, Martin P. Klein, Senior Vice PresidentChief Financial Officer of Genworth, was appointed by the Board as the Acting President and Acting Chief Executive Officer of Genworth. On May 17, 2012, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board approved additional compensation for Mr. Klein. Effective May 1, 2012, in addition to his annual base salary of $570,000, Mr. Klein will receive $20,000 per month for serving as Acting President and Acting Chief Executive Officer. Such amounts will also be considered part of Mr. Klein's "base compensation" for purposes of determining his target annual incentive opportunity, which has been set at 125% of base compensation.
 
At the Annual Meeting, held on May 17, 2012, the holders of Genworth's Class A Common Stock entitled to vote at the meeting (1) elected all seven of the director nominees for the ensuing year, (2) approved, on an advisory basis, the compensation of Genworth's named executive officers, (3) approved the 2012 Genworth Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan, and (4) ratified the selection of KPMG LLP as Genworth's independent registered public accounting firm for 2012.
The voting results were as follows:
Proposal 1
Election of directors
 
 
Proposal 2
 
Proposal 3
 
Proposal 4
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following document is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Table of Contents
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
2012 Genworth Financial, Inc.
Omnibus Incentive Plan
 
 
 
Effective May 17, 2012
 
 
Table of Contents
CONTENTS
 
Table of Contents
 
Article 1. Establishment, Purpose, Awards, Eligibility and Participation
 
Genworth Financial, Inc., a Delaware corporation (together with its successors, the "Company"), establishes the 2012 Genworth Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), as set forth in this document.
1.1 Establishment.
 
The Plan shall become effective on the date that it is approved by the Company's stockholders (the date on which the Plan becomes effective being referred to herein as the "Effective Date").
 
. The purpose of the Plan is to promote the interests of the Company and its stockholders by strengthening the ability of the Company and its Affiliates to attract, motivate, reward, and retain qualified individuals upon whose judgment, initiative, and efforts the financial success and growth of the business of the Company largely depend, and to provide an opportunity for such individuals to acquire stock ownership and other rights that promote and recognize the financial success and growth of the Company.
1.2 Purpose of the Plan
 
. The Plan permits the grant of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock (including Performance Shares), Restricted Stock Units (including Performance Units), Other-Stock Based Awards, Nonemployee Director Awards (including Deferred Stock Units), Dividend Equivalents with respect to Full-Value Awards, and Cash-Based Awards. The Plan sets forth the performance criteria and procedural requirements to permit the Company to design Awards that qualify as Performance-Based Compensation.
1.3 Awards
 
. Any Employee (including a leased employee), Nonemployee Director, or Third Party Service Provider is eligible to be designated a Participant. An individual shall become a Participant upon the grant of an Award. Each Award shall be evidenced by an Award Certificate. No individual shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under the Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award. An Employee, Nonemployee Director, or Third Party Service Provider of an Affiliate may be granted Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights under this Plan only if the Affiliate qualifies as an "eligible issuer of service recipient stock" within the meaning of 1.409A-1(b)(5)(iii)(E) of the final regulations under Code Section 409A. Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Eligible Participants who are employees of the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary as defined in Section 424(e) and (f) of the Code.
1.4 Eligibility and Participation
 
Article 2. Definitions
 
In addition to the terms specifically defined elsewhere in the Plan, the following capitalized terms whenever used in the Plan shall have the meanings set forth below.
 
2.1 Awards.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2
Other Defined Terms.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Article 3. Administration
 
. The Committee shall be responsible for administering the Plan in accordance with this Article 3.
3.1 General
 
. The Committee shall have full and exclusive discretionary power to (a) interpret the terms and the intent of the Plan and any Award Certificate or other agreement or document ancillary to or in connection with the Plan; (b) determine eligibility for Awards; and (c) adopt such rules, forms, instruments, and guidelines for administering the Plan as the Committee deems necessary or proper; , , that the Board of Directors is hereby authorized (in addition to any necessary action by the Committee) to grant or approve Awards as necessary to satisfy the requirements of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder. The Committee's authority shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
3.2 Authority of the Committee
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding upon the Participants, the Company, and all other interested individuals.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, grants of Awards to Nonemployee Directors shall be made only in accordance with the terms, conditions and parameters of a plan, program or policy for the compensation of Nonemployee Directors as in effect from time to time, and the Committee may not make discretionary grants hereunder to Nonemployee Directors.
 
. For purposes of administering the Plan, the Committee may from time to time adopt rules, regulations, guidelines and procedures for carrying out the provisions and purposes of the Plan and make such other determinations, not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee may deem appropriate. The Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award in the manner and to the extent it deems necessary to carry out the intent of the Plan. The Committee's interpretation of the Plan, any Awards granted under the Plan, any Award Certificate and all decisions and determinations by the Committee with respect to the Plan are final, binding, and conclusive on all parties. Each member of the Committee is entitled to, in good faith, rely or act upon any report
3.3 Actions and Interpretations by the Committee
 
Table of Contents
or other information furnished to that member by any officer or other employee of the Company or any Affiliate, the Company's or an Affiliate's independent certified public accountants, Company counsel or any executive compensation consultant or other professional retained by the Company to assist in the administration of the Plan. No member of the Committee will be personally liable for any good faith determination, act or omission in connection with the Plan or any Award.
 
. The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, agents, and other individuals, any of whom may be an Employee, and the Committee, the Company, and its officers and directors shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions, or valuations of any such individuals.
3.4 Advisors
 
. The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members, one or more officers of the Company or any of its Affiliates, and one or more agents or advisors such administrative duties or powers as it may deem advisable. The Committee may, by resolution, expressly delegate to a special committee, consisting of one or more directors who may but need not be officers of the Company, authority to do one or both of the following on the same basis as can the Committee: (a) designate Employees and Third Party Service Providers to be recipients of Awards, and (b) determine the terms and conditions of any such Awards; , , that (i) the Committee shall not delegate such responsibilities to any such officer for Awards granted to an Employee that is considered an "insider" for purposes of Section 16 of the Exchange Act or who as of the Grant Date is reasonably anticipated to be or become a Covered Employee during the term of the Award; (ii) the resolution providing for such authorization shall set forth the total number of Awards such officer(s) may grant; and (iii) the officer(s) shall report periodically to the Committee regarding the nature and scope of the Awards granted pursuant to the authority delegated.
3.5 Delegation
provided
however
 
Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, or an officer of the Company to whom authority was delegated in accordance with Section 3.5 shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf, unless such loss, cost, liability, or expense is a result of his or her own willful misconduct or except as expressly provided by statute. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's articles of incorporation or bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
3.6 Indemnification.
 
Article 4. Shares Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards
 
Subject to adjustment as provided in Sections 4.2 and 4.4, the maximum number of Shares available for issuance to Participants pursuant to Awards under the Plan shall be 16,000,000 Shares, plus a number of additional Shares (not to exceed 25,000,000) underlying awards outstanding as of the Effective Date under the Prior Plan that thereafter terminate or expire unexercised, or are cancelled, forfeited or lapse for any reason. The maximum number of Shares that may be issued upon exercise of Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan shall be 16,000,000. The Shares available for issuance under the Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares or treasury Shares. From and after the Effective Date, no further awards shall be granted under the Prior Plan and the Prior Plan shall remain in effect only so long as awards granted thereunder shall remain outstanding.
4.1 Number of Shares Available for Awards.
 
4.2 Share Usage.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights that are settled in Shares, the number of Shares set forth above (rather than any lesser number based on the net number of Shares actually delivered upon exercise) shall count against the number of Shares remaining available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
. The following limits (each an "Annual Award Limit" and collectively, "Annual Award Limits") shall apply to grants of Awards under the Plan:
4.3 Annual Award Limits
 
 
 
 
 
. In the event of any nonreciprocal transaction between the Company and its stockholders that causes the per-share value of the Stock to change (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, spin-off, rights offering, or large nonrecurring cash dividend), the share authorization limits under Section 4.1 shall be adjusted proportionately, and the Committee shall, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants' rights under the Plan as well as dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available, substitute or adjust, as applicable, the number and kind of Shares that may be issued under the Plan or under particular forms of Awards, the number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, the exercise price or grant price applicable to outstanding Awards, the Annual Award Limits, and other value determinations applicable to outstanding Awards.
4.4 Adjustments in Authorized Shares
 
In the event of any corporate event or transaction involving the Company, such as a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, combination of Shares, exchange of Shares, dividend in kind, or other like change in capital structure or distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to stockholders of the Company, or any similar corporate event or transaction, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, make such other appropriate adjustments to the terms of any Awards under the Plan to reflect, or related to, such changes or distributions to provide that (i) Awards will be settled in cash rather than Stock, (ii) Awards will become immediately vested and non-forfeitable and exercisable (in whole or in part) and will expire after a designated period of time to the extent not then exercised, (iii) Awards will be assumed by another party to a transaction or otherwise be equitably converted or substituted in connection with such transaction, (iv) outstanding Awards may be settled by payment in cash or cash equivalents equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock, as of a specified date associated with the transaction, over the exercise or grant price of the Award, (v) performance targets and performance periods for Performance Shares or Performance Units will be modified, consistent with Code Section 162(m) where applicable, or (vi) any combination of the foregoing. The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall not make any adjustments to outstanding Options or Stock Appreciation Rights that would constitute a modification or substitution of the stock right under Treas. Reg. Sections 1.409A-1(b)(5)(v) that would be treated as the grant of a new stock right or change in the form of payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.
 
Without affecting the number of Shares reserved or available hereunder, the Committee may authorize the issuance or assumption of benefits under the Plan in connection with any merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, or reorganization upon such terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate.
 
. Except in the case of substitute Awards granted pursuant to Section 15.4, Full-Value Awards granted to an Employee under the Plan shall either (i) be subject to a minimum vesting period of
4.5 Minimum Vesting
 
Table of Contents
three years (which may include graduated vesting within such three-year period), or one year if the vesting is based on performance criteria other than continued service, or (ii) be granted solely in exchange for foregone cash compensation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may (i) permit and authorize acceleration of vesting of any Full-Value Awards in the event of the Participant's termination of service or the occurrence of a Change of Control and (ii) grant Full-Value Awards without the above-described minimum vesting requirements, or may permit and authorize acceleration of vesting of Full-Value Awards otherwise subject to the above-described minimum vesting requirements, with respect to awards covering 5% or fewer of the total number of Shares authorized under the Plan.
 
Article 5. Stock Options
 
The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Stock Options to Participants. Each Stock Option shall permit a Participant to purchase from the Company a stated number of Shares from the Company at an exercise price established by the Committee, subject to the terms and conditions described in this Article 5 and to such additional terms and conditions, as established by the Committee, in its sole discretion, that are consistent with the provisions of the Plan. An Option may be either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
5.1 Grant of Stock Options.
 
The exercise price per Share under a Stock Option shall be determined by the Committee at the time of grant; , , that such exercise price shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date of such Stock Option (except in the case of a Stock Option issued as a substitute Award pursuant to Section 15.4).
5.2 Exercise Price.
provided
however
 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.4, the exercise price of a Stock Option may not be reduced, directly or indirectly by cancellation and regrant, replacement, substitution, surrender or otherwise, without the prior approval of the stockholders of the Company. In addition, the Company may not, without the prior approval of stockholders of the Company, repurchase a Stock Option for value from a Participant if the current Fair Market Value of the Shares underlying the Stock Option is lower than the exercise price per share of the Stock Option.
5.3 Prohibition on Repricing.
 
The term of each Stock Option shall be determined by the Committee at the time of grant; , , that no Stock Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth anniversary of the date of its grant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for Stock Options granted to Participants outside the United States, the Committee has the authority to grant Stock Options that have a term greater than ten years to the extent required by the applicable local laws of the jurisdictions in which such Stock Options are granted.
5.4 Stock Option Term.
provided
however
 
Stock Options shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant.
5.5 Time of Exercise.
 
Stock Options shall be exercised by the delivery of a notice of exercise to the Company or an agent designated by the Company in a form specified or accepted by the Committee, or by complying with any alternative procedures which may be authorized by the Committee, setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Stock Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares.
5.6 Method of Exercise.
 
A condition of the issuance of the Shares as to which a Stock Option shall be exercised shall be the payment of the exercise price. As determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, the exercise price of any Stock Option shall be payable to the Company in full: (a) in cash or its equivalent; (b) by tendering (either by actual delivery or attestation) previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the exercise price; (c) through a "net" exercise, whereby the Company withholds from the Stock Option a number of Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to some or all of the exercise price; (d) in a cashless (broker-assisted same-day sale) exercise; or (e) by a combination of (a), (b), (c) or (d), or any other method approved or accepted by the Committee in its sole discretion.
 
Table of Contents
The Committee may provide in an Award Certificate that a Stock Option that is otherwise exercisable and has a per share exercise price that is less than the Fair Market Value of a Share on the last day of its term will be automatically exercised on such final date of the term by means of a "net exercise," thus entitling the optionee to Shares equal to the intrinsic value of the Stock Option on such exercise date, less the number of Shares required for tax withholding.
 
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, all payments under all of the methods indicated above shall be paid in U.S. dollars.
 
. No Stock Option shall provide for any feature for the deferral of compensation other than the deferral of recognition of income until the exercise or disposition of the Stock Option.
5.7 No Deferral Feature
 
No Stock Option shall provide for Dividend Equivalents.
5.8 No Dividend Equivalents.
 
The terms of any Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan must comply with the requirements of Section 422 of the Code. If all of the requirements of Section 422 of the Code are not met, the Option shall automatically become a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
5.9 Incentive Stock Options.
 
Article 6. Stock Appreciation Rights
 
The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Stock Appreciation Rights to Participants. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Certificate, a Stock Appreciation Right granted under the Plan shall confer on the holder thereof a right to receive, upon exercise thereof, the excess of (a) the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise over (b) the grant price of the right as specified by the Committee, which shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of one Share on the Grant Date of the Stock Appreciation Right (except in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right issued as a substitute Award pursuant to Section 15.4).
6.1 Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Certificate, the grant price, term, methods of exercise, methods of settlement, and any other terms and conditions of any Stock Appreciation Right shall be as determined by the Committee. The Committee may impose such conditions or restrictions on the exercise of any Stock Appreciation Right as it may deem appropriate, including a provision that a Stock Appreciation Right that is otherwise exercisable and has a per share grant price that is less than the Fair Market Value of a Share on the last day of its term will be automatically exercised on such final date of the term.
 
. The Committee is authorized to grant Stock Appreciation Rights to Participants with a limit on the maximum appreciation value of the Award, by providing that if the Fair Market Value of a Share equals or exceeds a specified amount (the "Maximum Share Value") on any day during the term of such Award, the vested and unexercised portion of the Award, if any, shall be automatically exercised on such date without further action or notice by the Company or the Participant (an "Automatic Exercise"). Upon such Automatic Exercise, the Participant shall be entitled to receive for each Stock Appreciation Right the excess of (i) the Maximum Share Value over (ii) the grant price of such Award.
6.2 Stock Appreciation Rights with Maximum Appreciation Limits
 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.4, the exercise price of a Stock Appreciation Right may not be reduced, directly or indirectly by cancellation and regrant, replacement, substitution, surrender or otherwise, without the prior approval of the stockholders of the Company. In addition, the Company may not, without the prior approval of stockholders of the Company, repurchase a Stock Appreciation Right for value from a Participant if the current Fair Market Value of the Shares underlying the Stock Appreciation Right is lower than the grant price of the Stock Appreciation Right.
6.3 Prohibition on Repricing.
 
The term of each Stock Appreciation Right shall be determined by the Committee at the time of grant; , , that no Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable
6.4 Stock Appreciation Right Term.
provided
however
 
Table of Contents
later than the tenth anniversary of the date of its grant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for Stock Appreciation Rights granted to Participants outside the United States, the Committee has the authority to grant Stock Appreciation Rights that have a term greater than ten years to the extent required by the applicable local laws of the jurisdictions in which such Stock Appreciation Rights are granted.
 
Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant.
6.5 Time of Exercise.
 
. No Stock Appreciation Right shall provide for any feature for the deferral of compensation other than the deferral of recognition of income until the exercise or disposition of the Stock Appreciation Right.
6.6 No Deferral Feature
 
No Stock Appreciation Right shall provide for Dividend Equivalents.
6.7 No Dividend Equivalents.
 
Article 7. Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
 
7.1 Grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
 
 
 
 
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee and set forth in a Participant's Award Certificate, to the extent permitted or required by law, as determined by the Committee, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall have the right to exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the period of restriction. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee and set forth in a Participant's Award Certificate, a Participant shall have none of the rights of a stockholder with respect to any Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder until such time as Shares are paid in settlement of such Awards.
7.2 Voting and Other Rights.
 
. Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, dividends accrued on Shares of Restricted Stock before they are vested shall, as provided in the Award Certificate, either (i) be reinvested in the form of additional Shares, which shall be subject to the same vesting provisions as provided for the host Award, or (ii) be held by the Company under the same vesting provisions in an account allocated to the Participant and accumulated without interest until the date upon which the host Award becomes vested, and any dividends accrued with respect to forfeited Restricted Stock will also be forfeited.
7.3 Dividends on Restricted Stock
 
Table of Contents
Subject to the terms of the Award Certificate and except as otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter, upon termination of employment or service during the applicable restriction period or upon failure to satisfy a performance goal during the applicable restriction period, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units that are at that time subject to restrictions shall be forfeited.
7.4 Forfeiture.
 
Article 8. Other Stock-Based Awards
 
The Committee is hereby authorized to grant other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards not otherwise described by the terms of the Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted Shares) to Participants in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine, subject to Section 4.5 herein. Such Awards shall be referred to as "Other Stock-Based Awards." Each such Other Stock-Based Award may involve the transfer of actual Shares to Participants or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value of Shares, and may include, without limitation, Awards designed to comply with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the United States.
 
Each Other Stock-Based Award shall be expressed in terms of Shares or units or an equivalent measurement based on Shares, as determined by the Committee. If the value of an Other Stock-Based Award will be based on the appreciation of Shares from an initial value determined as of the Grant Date, then such initial value shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date of such Other Stock-Based Award.
 
Article 9. Dividend Equivalents
 
The Committee is hereby authorized to grant to Participants Dividend Equivalents based on the dividends declared on Shares that are subject to any Full-Value Award. Dividend Equivalents shall be credited as of dividend payment dates during the period between the date the Full-Value Award is granted and the date the Full-Value Award is vested, paid or expired. Such Dividend Equivalents shall be converted to cash, Shares or additional Full-Value Awards by such formula and at such time and subject to such limitations as may be determined by the Committee. Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, Dividend Equivalents accruing on unvested Full-Value Awards shall, as provided in the Award Certificate, either (i) be reinvested in the form of additional Shares, which shall be subject to the same vesting provisions as provided for the host Award, or (ii) be held by the Company under the same vesting provisions in an account allocated to the Participant and accumulated without interest until the date upon which the host Award becomes vested, and any Dividend Equivalents accrued with respect to forfeited Awards will also be forfeited.
 
Article 10. Nonemployee Director Awards
 
The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Awards to Nonemployee Directors, including, but not limited to, Awards of Deferred Stock Units. Each Deferred Stock Unit shall represent a vested right to receive one Share (or the equivalent value in cash or other property in the Committee so provides) at a designated future date and will be credited to a notional account maintained by the Company. Nonemployee Directors shall not be entitled to vote Shares represented by such Deferred Stock Units but shall receive Dividend Equivalents with respect to such Full-Value Awards, which shall be reinvested in additional Deferred Stock Units. Deferred Stock Units shall be converted and settled in Shares in accordance with an election made by the Nonemployee Director, which settlement date shall be no earlier than the first anniversary of the date the Nonemployee Director ceases to be a director of the Company.
 
Awards to Nonemployee Directors shall be made only in accordance with the terms, conditions and parameters of a plan, program or policy for the compensation of Nonemployee Directors that is approved and administered by the Committee.
 
Table of Contents
Article 11. Cash-Based Awards
 
The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Awards to Participants denominated in cash in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine. Such Awards shall be referred to as "Cash-Based Awards." Each such Cash-Based Award shall specify a payment amount, payment range or a value determined with respect to the Fair Market Value of the Shares, as determined by the Committee.
 
Article 12. Performance-Based Compensation
 
The provisions of the Plan are intended to ensure that all Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights granted hereunder shall qualify as Performance-Based Compensation.
12.1 Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
The Committee is authorized to design any other Award, including Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards, so that the Award meets the requirements of this Section 12.2 as Performance-Based Compensation. If the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards to Covered Employees that shall not qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of this Section 12.2.
12.2 Other Awards.
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Article 13. Change of Control
 
If the Successor Entity in a Change of Control Assumes and Maintains an Award, the Award will not automatically vest and pay out upon the Change of Control. Alternatively, unless the Committee shall determine otherwise in the Award Certificate, or unless otherwise specifically prohibited under applicable laws or by the rules and regulations of any governing governmental agencies or stock exchange on which the Shares are listed, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control in which the Successor Entity fails to Assume and Maintain an Award as defined in Section 13.2:
13.1 Change of Control of the Company.
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
13.2 Change of Control Definitions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Article 14. Duration, Rescission, Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination
 
. Unless sooner terminated as provided in Section 14.2, the Plan shall terminate on the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date or, if the stockholders approve an amendment to the Plan that increases the number of Shares subject to the Plan, the tenth anniversary of the date of such approval unless earlier terminated as provided herein. The termination of the Plan on such date shall not affect the validity of any Award outstanding on the date of termination, which shall continue to be governed by the applicable terms and conditions of the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Incentive Stock Option may be granted more than ten years after the Effective Date.
14.1 Duration of Plan
 
The Board of Directors may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan in whole or in part; , , that, without the prior approval of the Company's stockholders, no action shall be taken that would (a) increase the total number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan or the Annual Award Limits, except as provided in Section 4.4; (b) permit the exercise price or grant price of any Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right or Other Stock-Based Award the value of which is based on the appreciation of Shares from the Grant Date (i) to be less than Fair Market Value (except as may be permitted by Section 5.2, 6.1, or Article 8), or (ii) to be repriced, replaced, or regranted through cancellation (except as may be permitted by Section 15.4) or by lowering the exercise price or grant price; (c) change the performance measurements listed in Section 12.2(a); or (d) otherwise constitute a material change to the Plan under applicable stock exchange rules. No such action shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under the Plan without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award. After the Plan is terminated in accordance with this Section 14.2, no Award may be granted but any Award previously granted shall remain outstanding in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Award.
14.2 Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination of Plan.
provided
however
 
The Committee shall have the authority at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend or terminate the terms and conditions of any Award; , , that no such action shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under the Plan without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award.
14.3 Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination of Awards.
provided
however
 
Except in connection with a corporate transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, or exchange of shares), the terms of outstanding Awards may not be amended to reduce the exercise price of outstanding Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights or cancel outstanding Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights in exchange for cash, other Awards or Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights with an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights without stockholder approval
 
Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or in any Award Certificate to the contrary, the Board may amend the Plan or an Award Certificate, to take effect retroactively or otherwise, as deemed necessary or advisable for the purpose of conforming the Plan or Award Certificate to any present or future law relating to plans of this or similar nature (including, but not limited to, Section 409A of the Code), and to the administrative regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder. By accepting an Award under this Plan, a
14.4 Compliance Amendments.
 
Table of Contents
Participant agrees to any amendment made pursuant to this Section 14.4 to any Award granted under the Plan without further consideration or action.
 
Article 15. General Provisions
 
Each Award Certificate shall establish the form in which the Award shall be settled. Awards may be settled in cash, Shares, other securities, additional Awards or any combination, regardless of whether such Awards are originally denominated in cash or Shares. No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, Awards, other securities or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
15.1 Settlement of Awards; No Fractional Shares.
 
The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, in cash or Shares (including "sell to cover" arrangements), the minimum statutory amount to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of the Plan.
15.2 Tax Withholding.
 
With respect to withholding required upon the exercise of Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units, upon the achievement of performance goals related to Performance Shares and Performance Units, or any other taxable event arising as a result of an Award granted hereunder, Participants may elect, subject to the approval of the Committee, to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined not greater than minimum statutory total tax that could be imposed on the transaction.
15.3 Share Withholding.
 
The Committee may grant Awards under the Plan in substitution for stock and stock-based awards held by employees of another entity who become employees of the Company or an Affiliate as a result of a merger or consolidation of the former employing entity with the Company or an Affiliate or the acquisition by the Company or an Affiliate of property or stock of the former employing corporation. The Committee may direct that the substitute awards be granted on such terms and conditions as the Committee considers appropriate in the circumstances.
15.4 Substitution of Share-Based Awards.
 
Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Certificate or otherwise at any time by the Committee, no Award granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and any attempt to enforce such a purported sale, transfer, pledge, alienation or hypothecation shall be void. Should the Committee permit transferability of an Award (other than a transfer for value, which shall not be permitted), it may do so on a general or a specific basis, and may impose conditions and limitations on any permitted transferability. Unless transferability is permitted, Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised by a Participant only during his or her lifetime. If the Committee permits any Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right to be transferred, references in the Plan to the exercise of a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right by the Participant or payment of any amount to the Participant shall be deemed to include the Participant's transferee.
15.5 Transferability of Awards.
 
15.6
Termination of Service; Forfeiture Events.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
15.7 Special Provisions Related to Section 409A of the Code.
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
For purposes of this Plan, the term "Specified Employee" has the meaning given such term in Code Section 409A and the final regulations thereunder, , that, as permitted in such final regulations, the Company's Specified Employees and its application of the six-month delay rule of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) shall be determined in accordance with rules adopted by the Board or any committee of the Board, which shall be applied consistently with respect to all nonqualified deferred compensation arrangements of the Company, including this Plan.
provided, however
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an Award provides for issuance of certificates to reflect the transfer of Shares, the transfer of such Shares may be affected on an uncertificated basis, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange on which the Shares are listed. Shares issued in connection with Awards of Restricted Stock may, to the extent deemed appropriate by the Committee, be retained in the Company's possession until such time as all conditions or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse.
15.8
Share Certificates.
 
The Company may deliver by email or other electronic means (including posting on a web site maintained by the Company or by a third party under contract with the Company) all documents relating to the Plan or any Award thereunder (including without limitation, Plan prospectuses) and all other documents that the Company is required to deliver to its stockholders (including without limitation, annual reports and proxy statements).
15.9
Electronic Delivery of Documents.
 
The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or stock exchanges on which the Company is listed as may be required. The Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver evidence of title for Shares issued under the Plan prior to:
15.10
Compliance with Law.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
 
Except as otherwise provided herein, a Participant shall have none of the rights of a stockholder with respect to Shares covered by any Award until the Participant becomes the record holder of such Shares.
15.11 Rights as a Stockholder.
 
To comply with the laws in other countries in which the Company or any of its Affiliates operates or has Employees, directors, or Third Party Service Providers, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to:
15.12 Awards to Non-U.S. Employees.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nothing in the Plan or an Award Certificate shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any of its Affiliates to terminate any Participant's employment or service at any time or for any reason not prohibited by law, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue his or her employment or service for any specified period of time. Neither any Award nor any benefits arising under the Plan shall constitute an employment or consulting contract with the Company or any of its Affiliates and, accordingly, subject to Article 14, the Plan and the benefits hereunder may be terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Board of Directors or Committee, as applicable, without giving rise to any liability on the part of the Company or any of its Affiliates.
15.13 No Right to Continued Service.
 
Each Participant under the Plan may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid in case of his or her death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and any Award Agreement applicable to the Participant. Each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Committee, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participant's lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, amounts due under the Plan remaining unpaid at the Participant's death shall be paid to the Participant's estate.
15.14 Beneficiary Designation.
 
The Committee shall have the authority to grant Awards as an alternative to or as the form of payment for grants or rights earned or due under other compensation plans or arrangements of the Company.
15.15 Other Compensation Plans or Arrangements.
 
Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural.
15.16 Gender and Number.
 
Table of Contents
If any provision of the Plan or any Award is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, or as to any Person or Award, or would disqualify the Plan or any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or if it cannot be so construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Committee, materially altering the intent of the Plan or the Award, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, Person, or Award, and the remainder of the Plan and any such Award shall remain in full force and effect.
15.17 Severability.
 
Participants shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company or any of its Affiliates may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative, or any other person. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any of its Affiliates under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company or an Affiliate, as the case may be. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company or an Affiliate, as the case may be, and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as expressly set forth in the Plan. The Plan is not subject to the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
15.18 Unfunded Plan.
 
The adoption of the Plan shall not be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board of Directors or Committee to adopt such other compensation arrangements as it may deem desirable for any Participant.
15.19 Nonexclusivity of the Plan.
 
Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to (a) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Company's or its Affiliate's right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets, or (b) limit the right or power of the Company or its Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
15.20 No Constraint on Corporate Action.
 
All obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company.
15.21 Successors.
 
The Plan and each Award Certificate shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.
15.22 Governing Law.
 


