FILE:GNW/GNW-8K-20120731164856.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 31, 2012, Genworth Financial, Inc. issued (1) a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and (2) a financial supplement for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibits) is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
 
The following materials are furnished as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Richmond, VA (July 31, 2012)  Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) today reported results for the second quarter of 2012. The company reported net income
1
of $76 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, compared with a net loss of $136 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2011. Net operating income
2
for the second quarter of 2012 was $80 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, compared with a net operating loss of $113 million, or $0.23 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2011.
"Total net operating income increased both year over year and sequentially, with substantial improvement in Global Mortgage Insurance results partly offset by declines in Insurance and Wealth Management," said Martin P. Klein, acting chief executive officer and chief financial officer. "In long term care, we are implementing significant rate actions and product changes as part of a company-wide focus on improving business performance, which is key in achieving our longer term goals and objectives as a company."
 
 
Consolidated Net Income (Loss) & Net Operating Income (Loss)
 
Net investment losses, net of tax and other adjustments, were $19 million in the quarter compared to $23 million in the prior year. Net income in the quarter also included a $15 million after-tax gain related to the sale of our tax and accounting financial advisor unit, Genworth Financial Investment Services (GFIS).
Net operating income (loss) results are summarized in the table below:
Net Operating Income (Loss)
 
Net operating income (loss) excludes net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments, net of taxes. A reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income (loss) is included at the end of this press release.
 
 
Unless specifically noted in the discussion of results for the International Protection and International Mortgage Insurance segments, references to percentage changes exclude the impact of foreign exchange. Percentage changes, which include the impact of foreign exchange, are found in a table at the end of this press release. The impact of foreign exchange on net operating income in the second quarter of 2012 was a $1 million unfavorable impact versus the prior year and a $1 million favorable impact versus the prior quarter.
Insurance and Wealth Management Division
Insurance and Wealth Management Division net operating income was $79 million, compared with $81 million in the prior quarter and $138 million a year ago. The decline from the prior year was driven by the U.S. Life Insurance, International Protection and Wealth Management segments.
Insurance and Wealth Management Division
Net Operating Income
 
Sales
4
 
 
 
Assets Under Management
5
 
U.S. Life Insurance Segment
Highlights
 
 
 
 
Life insurance net operating income was $30 million, compared with $6 million in the prior quarter and $57 million in the prior year. Results in the quarter included less favorable term mortality versus the prior quarter driven by slightly higher severity of claims. Results in the current quarter reflected higher mortality which was $9 million less favorable than the prior year although still in line with pricing expectations. Prior quarter results included a $41 million after-tax net loss on the life block sales transaction and $13 million of favorable interest expense associated with an adjustment related to the tax matters agreement with our former parent. Prior year results included an $11 million after-tax gain from the selective repurchase of notes secured by non-recourse funding obligations and $7 million of investment income from bond calls and limited partnerships. Sales were up $4 million versus the prior quarter and $3 million versus the prior year. As part of the company's strategy to actively manage new business volume for improved profitability and statutory earnings, sales of its 15 year and 30 year term universal life insurance products were suspended in April and June of 2012, respectively. The company continues to utilize reinsurance in life insurance as part of its capital optimization strategies.
Long term care net operating income was $14 million, compared with $35 million in the prior quarter and $18 million in the prior year. The reported loss ratio in the quarter increased eight points from the prior quarter and
 
 
four points over the prior year to 74 percent. Lower claim termination rates, higher new claim severity and modestly higher new claim counts all negatively impacted the quarter. We expect variations to continue quarter to quarter. Results in the current quarter also included a $3 million unfavorable impact versus the prior quarter and an $8 million favorable impact versus the prior year from the most recent premium rate increase on older issued policies. Results in the prior quarter included a $10 million favorable actuarial reserve adjustment as part of a multi-stage system conversion. Individual long term care sales increased to $53 million during the quarter from normal seasonal increases and accelerated sales as additional states transitioned to the latest product offering. The company continues to utilize reinsurance in long term care insurance as part of its capital optimization strategies.
Effective July, the company introduced changes to its individual long term care product to strengthen profitability and reduce risk. Certain lifetime benefits coverages and limited pay options will no longer be available, underwriting was further tightened, first year commissions were lowered and certain discounts were reduced or eliminated effectively increasing average pricing by more than 20 percent on the products impacted. In addition, the company began filing a new product scheduled for early 2013 release, which will include several transformational concepts such as gender distinct pricing for single applicants and blood and lab underwriting requirements for all applicants. As of July 27, 2012, the new product has been filed in 38 states and has received approval from seven states. There may be temporary increases in long term care insurance sales levels of the current product before it is replaced by the new product.
The previously announced premium rate increase of approximately 18 percent on the majority of older issued policies has been substantially implemented. As of June 30, 2012, the company had received approvals for price increases in 45 states, representing approximately 80 percent of the targeted premiums. In the third quarter of 2012, the company plans to request another round of long term care in force premium rate increases with the goal of achieving an average premium increase in excess of 50 percent on the older generation policies and an average premium increase in excess of 25 percent on an earlier series of new generation policies over the next five years. Subject to regulatory approval, this premium rate increase would generate approximately $200 to $300 million of additional annual premiums when fully implemented. The goal of these premium rate increases is to mitigate losses on the older generation and, on the earlier series of the newer generation which has generated positive operating earnings to date, help offset lower than priced-for returns due to lower interest rates, unfavorable business mix and lower lapse rates than expected.
Fixed annuities net operating income was $20 million, compared with $23 million in the prior quarter and $25 million in the prior year. Results in the prior quarter reflected a release of a $3 million expense accrual related to state guarantee fund assessments. The results for the quarter were down from the prior year driven by more unfavorable mortality in the current quarter. Sales in the quarter totaled $336 million and were flat sequentially as the company continues to maintain spreads through both asset portfolio management and crediting rate strategies to meet or exceed targeted returns in the low interest rate environment.
 
International Protection Segment
Highlights
 
 
 
International Protection earnings decreased $2 million sequentially and $22 million from the prior year from slowing sales and higher claims in contracts with lower profit sharing, which more than offset lower operating expenses. In light of the continued slow consumer lending environment in Europe, additional actions have been taken to reduce expenses and mitigate these impacts. Despite the continued challenging lending environment, sales increased 10 percent
8
versus the prior quarter, but decreased four percent
8
versus the prior year as Northern Europe performed stronger than Southern Europe. New claim registrations in Europe decreased eight percent versus the prior quarter and were flat versus the prior year. At quarter end, the lifestyle protection business had a regulatory capital ratio of approximately 357 percent
6
.
Wealth Management Segment
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management net operating income was $12 million, compared with $12 million in the prior quarter and $13 million in the prior year. Net operating income in the prior quarter and prior year were approximately $2 million for GFIS. Assets under management (AUM) decreased approximately $3.4 billion sequentially to $22.3 billion reflecting a $2.8 billion decline related to the sale of GFIS. In addition, challenging market conditions impacted AUM by $348 million. Net flows for the quarter were negative $245 million, primarily related to prior year relative investment performance. Margins
9
as a percentage of average AUM increased seven percent from the prior year, primarily from growth from the 2010 acquisition of the Altegris companies. As of the end of the quarter, total advisors with assets on the platform were 6,430.
Global Mortgage Insurance Division
Global Mortgage Insurance Division had net operating income of $51 million, compared with a net operating loss of $36 million in the prior quarter and a net operating loss of $177 million a year ago, benefitting sequentially from improved loss ratios across U.S. MI, Australia and Canada.
Global Mortgage Insurance Division
Net Operating Income (Loss)
 
 
 
Sales
 
International Mortgage Insurance Segment
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Canada operating earnings of $41 million were up from $37 million in the prior quarter and $28 million in the prior year. Prior year earnings included a $12 million negative tax adjustment associated with an increase in the effective tax rate resulting from the anticipated restructuring of the government guarantee fund. The loss
 
ratio in the quarter was 32 percent, down from 38 percent in the prior quarter and down from 33 percent in the prior year from continued improvement in Alberta. The lower losses in the current quarter were partially offset by lower earned premiums from the maturing of the larger 2007 and 2008 books of business. Flow NIW was up 63 percent
8
sequentially from seasonal variation and down nine percent
8
year over year from a smaller origination market. In addition, the company completed several bulk transactions, consisting of low loan-to-value prime loans, of approximately $13.1 billion reflecting its selective participation in this market. At quarter end, the Canada mortgage insurance business had a regulatory capital ratio of 160 percent
6
, well in excess of regulatory requirements. GAAP book value was $2.7 billion, of which $1.6 billion represented Genworth's 57.5 percent ownership interest.
Australia reported net operating income of $44 million versus reported operating earnings of $54 million in the prior year and a net operating loss of $21 million in the prior quarter. Paid claims were higher in the current quarter, but in line with the first quarter reserve strengthening expectations. The loss ratio in the quarter was 54 percent, down 100 points sequentially and up six points from the prior year. Overall, delinquencies were down four percent from the prior quarter. Flow NIW was up eight percent
8
sequentially and up 24 percent
8
year over year as the current year origination market was larger primarily from refinancing activity. At quarter end, the Australia mortgage insurance business had a regulatory capital ratio of 161 percent
6
, well in excess of regulatory requirements. Consistent with the company's capital management plan of obtaining external reinsurance to replace internal reinsurance, effective in July 2012, the company terminated a reinsurance agreement with an affiliate, which will lower the capital ratio by approximately 25 to 28 points but remain in compliance with regulatory requirements. The GAAP book value was $2.2 billion as of the end of the quarter.
Other countries net operating loss of $9 million was flat sequentially but increased $5 million from the prior year driven by an increase in losses in Europe.
U.S. Mortgage Insurance Segment
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. MI net operating loss improved to $25 million, compared with net operating losses of $43 million in the prior quarter and $255 million in the prior year. The improvement over the prior quarter reflects a decrease in new delinquency development and effective loss mitigation programs partially offset by modest changes in aging of existing delinquencies and lower cure activity. Results in the current quarter included a $12 million after-tax favorable impact from the termination of an external reinsurance contract.
Total flow delinquencies decreased six percent sequentially and 15 percent versus the prior year. New flow delinquencies declined approximately seven percent from the prior quarter and approximately 21 percent from the prior year, reflecting the continuing burn through of delinquencies from the 2005 to 2008 book years. The flow average reserve per delinquency was $30,600, flat to the prior quarter.
Total losses decreased $23 million from the prior quarter driven by continued improvement in new delinquencies partially offset by modest changes in aging. Sequentially, paid claims decreased slightly. Paid claims increased 37 percent from the prior year, driven by higher claim counts and a reduction in captive benefits partially offset by a reduction in severity from claims mitigation.
Loss mitigation savings were $162 million in the quarter, up three percent from the prior quarter, as an increase in claims mitigation was partially offset by an overall decline in workouts as the delinquency inventory declines and ages.
Flow NIW increased 20 percent over the prior quarter to $3.6 billion reflecting an increase in overall private mortgage insurance penetration and a larger origination market. Overall private mortgage insurance market penetration was up approximately one point versus the prior quarter and up approximately two points year over year. The company's market share decreased slightly from the first quarter to an estimated 13 percent. Flow persistency was 82 percent. During the quarter, the company announced reduced pricing and expanded underwriting guidelines that will increase our competitiveness in the market while still meeting return thresholds. In addition, the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) accounted for about $2.3 billion of insurance that is treated as a modification of the coverage on existing insurance in force rather than NIW.
The combined U.S. MI statutory risk-to-capital ratio is estimated at 29.5:1
6
at the end of the second quarter with the risk-to-capital ratio for Genworth Mortgage Insurance Corporation (GEMICO), the company's primary mortgage insurance company, estimated at 34.3:1
6
. GEMICO currently maintains waivers or other authorizations from 44 states that permit the company to continue writing new business while its risk-to-capital ratio exceeds 25.0:1. Additionally, the company has separately capitalized and licensed legal entities to write new business for states where waivers are not in place, subject to the approval of applicable regulators and the
 
GSEs (government sponsored entities) approval. Currently, new business in five states is being written out of Genworth Residential Mortgage Assurance Corporation (GRMAC), a subsidiary of GEMICO. Subsequent to the end of the quarter, the North Carolina Department of Insurance granted GEMICO an 18 month extension of the revocable waiver of compliance with its risk-to-capital requirement through July 31, 2014.
Corporate and Runoff Division
Corporate and Runoff Division net operating loss was $50 million, compared with $14 million in the prior quarter and $74 million in the prior year.
Corporate and Runoff Division
Net Operating Income (Loss)
 
Assets Under Management
5
 
Runoff Segment
The Runoff segment's net operating loss was $6 million, compared with net operating income of $35 million in the prior quarter and $18 million in the prior year. Results in the current quarter reflected lower tax benefits compared to the prior quarter and prior year of $15 million and $14 million, respectively. Excluding the lower tax benefits for the segment, earnings were lower by $26 million versus the prior quarter and $10 million versus the prior year primarily from unfavorable equity market and interest rate conditions impacting the variable annuity business.
Corporate and Other
Corporate and Other's net operating loss was $44 million, compared with $49 million in the prior quarter and $92 million in the prior year. Results in the prior year reflected higher taxes. On a pre-tax operating basis, the loss increased modestly year over year.
 
Investment Portfolio Performance
Investment income increased modestly, with net investment income of $846 million, compared to $832 million in the first quarter. The core yield
2
increased sequentially to approximately 4.7 percent from approximately 4.6 percent primarily from improved limited partnership performance.
Net income in the quarter included $19 million of net investment losses, net of tax and deferred acquisition cost amortization of $3 million.
Net unrealized investment gains were $2.0 billion, net of tax and other items, as of June 30, 2012, compared with $264 million as of June 30, 2011 and $1.3 billion as of March 31, 2012. The fixed maturity securities portfolio had gross unrealized investment gains of $5.9 billion compared with $2.5 billion as of June 30, 2011 and gross unrealized investment losses of $1.0 billion compared with $1.3 billion as of June 30, 2011.
Holding Company
Genworth's holding company ended the quarter with approximately $1.2 billion of cash and highly liquid securities, down approximately $250 million sequentially from the debt maturity of $222 million in June and approximately $110 million of debt interest payments, partially offset by dividends and sale proceeds, including taxes paid to the holding company of $193 million that included $100 million from the Medicare supplement sale and $73 million from the GFIS sale proceeds. The holding company targets maintaining cash balances of at least two times its annual debt service expense. The holding company has no debt maturities until June 2014.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth Financial, Inc. (NYSE: GNW) is a leading Fortune 500 insurance holding company dedicated to helping people secure their financial lives, families and futures. Genworth has leadership positions in offerings that assist consumers in protecting themselves, investing for the future and planning for retirement  including life insurance, long term care insurance, financial protection coverages, and independent advisor-based wealth management  and mortgage insurance that helps consumers achieve home ownership while assisting lenders in managing their risk and capital.
Genworth has approximately 6,500 employees and operates through three divisions: Insurance and Wealth Management, which includes U.S. Life Insurance, Wealth Management and International Protection segments; Global Mortgage Insurance, which includes U.S. and International Mortgage Insurance segments; and the Corporate and Runoff division. Its products and services are offered through financial intermediaries, advisors, independent distributors and sales specialists. Genworth Financial, Inc., which traces its roots back to 1871, became a public company in 2004 and is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia. For more information, visit
 
genworth.com. From time to time, Genworth Financial, Inc. releases important information via postings on its corporate website. Accordingly, investors and other interested parties are encouraged to enroll to receive automatic email alerts and Really Simple Syndication (RSS) feeds regarding new postings. Enrollment information is found under the "Investors" section of genworth.com.
Conference Call and Financial Supplement Information
This press release and the second quarter 2012 financial supplement are now posted on the company's website. Additional information regarding long term care insurance, Australia and U.S. mortgage insurance will be available on the company's website, , on August 1, 2012 by 8:00 a.m. (ET). Investors are encouraged to review all of these materials.
http://investor.genworth.com
Genworth will conduct a conference call on August 1, 2012 at 9:00 a.m. (ET) to discuss the quarter's results. The conference call will be accessible via telephone and the Internet. The dial-in number for the conference call is 866 393.0571 or 206 453.2872 (outside the U.S.). To participate in the call by webcast, register at at least 15 minutes prior to the webcast to download and install any necessary software.
http://investor.genworth.com
Replays of the call will be available through August 15, 2012 at 855 859.2056 or 404 537.3406 (outside the U.S.); the conference ID # for the call is # 93880541. The webcast will also be archived on the company's website.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income (loss)." The chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders. The company defines net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. The company excludes net investment gains (losses) and infrequent or unusual non-operating items because the company does not consider them to be related to the operating performance of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities. A component of the company's net investment gains (losses) is the result of impairments, the size and timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment gains (losses) can be subject to the company's discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders if, in the company's opinion, they are not indicative of overall operating trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders in
 
accordance with GAAP, the company believes that net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders and measures that are derived from or incorporate net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders, including net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis, are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because they identify the income (loss) attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders and net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis are not substitutes for net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders or net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders may differ from the definitions used by other companies. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders during the periods presented other than a $15 million after-tax gain related to the sale of our tax and accounting financial advisor unit in the second quarter of 2012. The tables at the end of this press release reflect net operating income (loss) as determined in accordance with accounting guidance related to segment reporting and a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011.
This press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core yield" as a measure of investment yield. The company defines core yield as the investment yield adjusted for those items that are not recurring in nature. Management believes that analysis of core yield enhances understanding of the investment yield of the company. However, core yield as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP investment yield. In addition, the company's definition of core yield may differ from the definitions used by other companies. A reconciliation of core yield to reported GAAP yield is included in a table at the end of this press release.
Definition of Selected Operating Performance Measures
The company reports selected operating performance measures including "sales," "assets under management" and "insurance in force" or "risk in force" which are commonly used in the insurance and investment industries as measures of operating performance.
Management regularly monitors and reports sales metrics as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. Sales refer to: (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life and long term care insurance; (2) annualized first-year deposits plus five percent of excess deposits for universal and term universal life insurance products; (3) 10 percent of premium deposits for linked-benefits products; (4) new and
 
additional premiums/deposits for fixed annuities; (5) gross flows and net flows, which represent gross flows less redemptions, for the wealth management business; (6) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where the company earns a fee for administrative services only business, for the lifestyle protection insurance business; and (7) new insurance written for mortgage insurance. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, premium equivalents, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums and new insurance written to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
This press release also includes the metric entitled "underwriting margin" related to the lifestyle protection business. The company defines underwriting margin as underwriting profit divided by net earned premiums. Underwriting profit is defined as premiums less benefits and other changes in reserves, commissions (which include amortization of deferred acquisition costs) and profit share expenses. Management believes that this analysis of underwriting margin enhances the understanding of the lifestyle protection business.
Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for the wealth management business, insurance in force and risk in force. Assets under management for the wealth management business represent third-party assets under management that are not consolidated in the company's financial statements. Insurance in force for the life, international mortgage and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. For the risk in force in the international mortgage insurance business, the company has computed an "effective" risk in force amount, which recognizes that the loss on any particular loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the property. Effective risk in force has been calculated by applying to insurance in force a factor of 35 percent that represents the highest expected average per-claim payment for any one underwriting year over the life of the company's businesses in Canada and Australia. Risk in force for the U.S. mortgage insurance business is the obligation that is limited under contractual terms to the amounts less than 100 percent of the mortgage loan value. The company considers assets under management for the wealth management business, insurance in force and risk in force to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of the size of the business at a specific date which will generate revenues and profits in a future period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
This press release also includes information related to loss mitigation activities for the U.S. mortgage insurance business. The company defines loss mitigation activities as rescissions, cancellations, borrower loan modifications, repayment plans, lender- and borrower-titled presales, claims administration and other loan
 
workouts. Estimated savings related to rescissions are the reduction in carried loss reserves, net of premium refunds and reinstatement of prior rescissions. Estimated savings related to loan modifications and other cure related loss mitigation actions represent the reduction in carried loss reserves. For non-cure related actions, including presales, the estimated savings represent the difference between the full claim obligation and the actual amount paid. The company believes that this information helps to enhance the understanding of the operating performance of the U.S. mortgage insurance business as loss mitigation activities specifically impact current and future loss reserves and level of claim payments.
These operating measures enable the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "will" or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for the company's future business and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors and risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
:
Contact Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Note: 
Unless otherwise noted, references in this financial supplement to net income (loss), net income (loss) per share, net operating income (loss), net operating income (loss) per share, book value and book value per common share should be read as net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders, net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per share, net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders, net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per share, book value available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders and book value available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per share, respectively.
 
Dear Investor,
Once again, thank you for your continued interest in Genworth Financial.
Please feel free to call with any questions or comments.
Regards,
Georgette Nicholas
Investor Relations
804 662.2248
 
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This financial supplement includes the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "net operating income (loss)." The chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance and allocates resources on the basis of net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders. The company defines net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, after-tax net investment gains (losses) and other adjustments and infrequent or unusual non-operating items. The company excludes net investment gains (losses) and infrequent or unusual non-operating items because the company does not consider them to be related to the operating performance of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities. A component of the company's net investment gains (losses) is the result of impairments, the size and timing of which can vary significantly depending on market credit cycles. In addition, the size and timing of other investment gains (losses) can be subject to the company's discretion and are influenced by market opportunities, as well as asset-liability matching considerations. Infrequent or unusual non-operating items are also excluded from net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders if, in the company's opinion, they are not indicative of overall operating trends. While some of these items may be significant components of net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders in accordance with GAAP, the company believes that net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders and measures that are derived from or incorporate net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders, including net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis, are appropriate measures that are useful to investors because they identify the income (loss) attributable to the ongoing operations of the business. However, net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders and net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis are not substitutes for net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders or net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders per common share on a basic and diluted basis determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company's definition of net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders may differ from the definitions used by other companies. There were no infrequent or unusual non-operating items excluded from net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders during the periods presented other than a $15 million after-tax gain related to the sale of the tax and accounting financial advisor unit in the second quarter of 2012 and a $36 million after-tax gain related to the sale of the Medicare supplement insurance business recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011. The table on page 8 of this financial supplement reflects net operating income (loss) as determined in accordance with accounting guidance related to segment reporting, and a reconciliation of net operating income (loss) of the company's segments and Corporate and Other activities to net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011. The financial supplement includes other non-GAAP measures management believes enhances the understanding and comparability of performance by highlighting underlying business activity and profitability drivers. These additional non-GAAP measures are on pages 77 through 80 of this financial supplement.
(1)
Selected Operating Performance Measures
This financial supplement contains selected operating performance measures including "sales," "assets under management" and "insurance in-force" or "risk in-force" which are commonly used in the insurance and investment industries as measures of operating performance.
Management regularly monitors and reports sales metrics as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. Sales refer to: (1) annualized first-year premiums for term life and long-term care insurance; (2) annualized first-year deposits plus 5% of excess deposits for universal and term universal life insurance products; (3) 10% of premium deposits for linked-benefits products; (4) new and additional premiums/deposits for fixed annuities; (5) gross flows and net flows, which represent gross flows less redemptions, for the wealth management business; (6) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where the company earns a fee for administrative services only business, for the lifestyle protection insurance business; and (7) new insurance written for mortgage insurance. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. The company considers annualized first-year premiums, premium equivalents, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums and new insurance written to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for the wealth management business, insurance in-force and risk in-force. Assets under management for the wealth management business represent third-party assets under management that are not consolidated in the company's financial statements. Insurance in-force for the life, international mortgage and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. For the risk in-force in the international mortgage insurance business, the company has computed an "effective" risk in-force amount, which recognizes that the loss on any particular loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the property. Effective risk in-force has been calculated by applying to insurance in-force a factor of 35% that represents the highest expected average per-claim payment for any one underwriting year over the life of the company's businesses in Canada and Australia. Risk in-force for the U.S. mortgage insurance business is the obligation that is limited under contractual terms to the amounts less than 100% of the mortgage loan value. The company considers assets under management for the wealth management business, insurance in-force and risk in-force to be a measure of the company's operating performance because they represent a measure of the size of the business at a specific date which will generate revenues and profits in a future period, rather than a measure of the company's revenues or profitability during that period.
This financial supplement also includes information related to loss mitigation activities for the U.S. mortgage insurance business. The company defines loss mitigation activities as rescissions, cancellations, borrower loan modifications, repayment plans, lender- and borrower-titled presales, claims administration and other loan workouts. Estimated savings related to rescissions are the reduction in carried loss reserves, net of premium refunds and reinstatement of prior rescissions. Estimated savings related to loan modifications and other cure related loss mitigation actions represent the reduction in carried loss reserves. For non-cure related actions, includingpresales, the estimated savings represent the difference between the full claim obligation and the actual amount paid. The company believes that this information helps to enhance the understanding of the operating performance of the U.S. mortgage insurance business as loss mitigation activities specifically impact current and future loss reserves and level of claim payments.
 
These operating measures enable the company to compare its operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The loss ratio included above was calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratio calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
This page is provided as supplemental analysis related to the lifestyle protection insurance business. This business has reinsurance agreements that do not qualify for risk transfer under GAAP. This analysis shows the income statement activity as if these reinsurance agreements, except for our reciprocal arrangements, were accounted for as reinsurance accounting ("pre-deposit accounting basis") and not as deposit accounting. There is no impact on net income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders or to segment net operating income.
The ratios included above were calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratio calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
This page is provided as supplemental analysis related to the lifestyle protection insurance business. This business has reinsurance agreements that do not qualify for risk transfer under GAAP. This analysis shows the income statement activity as if these reinsurance agreements, except for our reciprocal arrangements, were accounted for as reinsurance accounting ("pre-deposit accounting basis") and not as deposit accounting. There is no impact on net income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders or to segment net operating income.
The ratios included above were calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratio calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management results represent Genworth Financial Wealth Management, Inc. (GFIS), Genworth Financial Investment Services, Inc., Genworth Financial Trust Company, Centurion Financial Advisers, Inc., Quantavis Consulting, Inc. and the Altegris companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The loss and expense ratios included above were calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All amounts presented in Canadian dollars.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All amounts presented in Australian dollars.
 
 
 
 
Amounts may not total due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The expense ratios included above were calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratios calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
The loss ratio included above was calculated using whole dollars and may be different than the ratio calculated using the rounded numbers included herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yields for fixed maturity securities and equity securities are based on amortized cost and cost, respectively. Yields for securities lending activity, which is included in other invested assets, are calculated net of the corresponding securities lending liability.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Operating ROE
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "operating return on equity" or "operating ROE." The company defines operating ROE as net operating income (loss) divided by average ending Genworth Financial, Inc.'s stockholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in average ending Genworth Financial, Inc.'s stockholders equity. Management believes that analysis of operating ROE enhances understanding of the efficiency with which the company deploys its capital. However, operating ROE as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.'s common stockholders divided by average ending Genworth Financial, Inc.'s stockholders' equity.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Expense Ratio
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "expense ratio" as a measure of productivity. The company defines expense ratio as acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues, excluding the effects of the company's lifestyle protection insurance and wealth management businesses. The lifestyle protection insurance and wealth management businesses are excluded from this ratio as their expense bases are comprised of varying levels of non-deferrable acquisition costs. Management believes that the expense ratio analysis enhances understanding of the productivity of the company. However, the expense ratio as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP acquisition and operating expenses, net of deferrals, divided by total revenues.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Premiums
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core premiums" as a measure of premium growth. The company defines core premiums as earned premiums less premiums from the U.S. Life Insurancefixed annuities business and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. The fixed annuities premiums are excluded in this measure primarily because these are single premiums and are not an indication of future premiums. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates are excluded in this measure to present periods on a comparable exchange rate. Management believes that analysis of core premiums enhances understanding of premium growth of the company. However, core premiums as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP earned premiums.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Definition for Core Yield
The company references the non-GAAP financial measure entitled "core yield" as a measure of investment yield. The company defines core yield as the investment yield adjusted for those items that are not recurring in nature. Management believes that analysis of core yield enhances understanding of the investment yield of the company. However, core yield as defined by the company should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP investment yield.
 
 
 
 
The company's principal life insurance subsidiaries are rated in terms of financial strength by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC (S&P), Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (Moody's), A.M. Best Company, Inc. (A.M. Best) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) as follows:
 
The company's principal lifestyle protection insurance subsidiaries are rated in terms of financial strength by S&P as follows:
 
The company's principal mortgage insurance subsidiaries are rated in terms of financial strength by S&P and Moody's as follows:
 
 
The S&P, Moody's, A.M. Best, Fitch and DBRS ratings included are not designed to be, and do not serve as, measures of protection or valuation offered to investors. These financial strength ratings should not be relied on with respect to making an investment in the company's securities.
 
 
S&P states that an insurer rated "AA" (Very Strong) has very strong financial security characteristics that outweigh any vulnerabilities, and is highly likely to have the ability to meet financial commitments. Insurers rated "AA" (Very Strong), "A" (Strong), "BBB" (Good) or "B" (Weak) have very strong, strong, good, or weak financial security characteristics, respectively. The "AA," "A," "BBB" and "B" ranges are the second-, third-, fourth- and sixth-highest of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by S&P, which range from "AAA" to "R." A plus (+) or minus (-) shows relative standing in a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the "AAA" category or to ratings below the "CCC" category. Accordingly, the "AA-," "A," "A-," "BBB" and "B" ratings are the fourth-, sixth-, seventh-, ninth- and fifteenth-highest of S&P's 21 ratings categories. The short-term "A-1" rating is the highest rating and shows the capacity to meet financial commitments is strong. An obligor rated "mxAA" has a very strong capacity to meet its financial commitments relative to that of other Mexican obligors. The "mxAA" rating is the second-highest enterprise credit rating assigned on S&P's CaVal national scale.
Moody's states that insurance companies rated "A" (Good) offer good financial security and those rated "Ba" (Questionable) offer questionable financial security. The "A" (Good) and "Ba" (Questionable) ranges are the third- and fifth-highest, respectively, of nine financial strength rating ranges assigned by Moody's, which range from "Aaa" to "C." Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. These modifiers are not added to ratings in the "Aaa" category or to ratings below the "Caa" category. Accordingly, the "A1," "A3," "Ba1", ratings are the fifth-, seventh-, and eleventh-highest, respectively, of Moody's 21 ratings categories. The short-term rating "P-1" is the highest rating and shows superior ability for repayment of short-term debt obligations. Issuers or issues rated "Aa.mx" demonstrate very strong creditworthiness relative to other issuers in Mexico.
A.M. Best states that the "A" (Excellent) rating is assigned to those companies that have, in its opinion, an excellent ability to meet their ongoing insurance obligations. The "A" (Excellent) rating is the third-highest, of 15 ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from "A++" to "F."
Fitch states that "A" (Strong) rated insurance companies are viewed as possessing strong capacity to meet policyholder and contract obligations. The "A" rating category is the third-highest of nine financial strength rating categories, which range from "AAA" to "C." The symbol (+) or (-) may be appended to a rating to indicate the relative position of a credit within a rating category. These suffixes are not added to ratings in the "AAA" category or to ratings below the "B" category. Accordingly, the "A-" rating is the seventh-highest of Fitch's 19 ratings categories.
DBRS states that long-term obligations rated "AA" are of superior credit quality. The capacity for the payment of financial obligations is considered high and unlikely to be significantly variable to future events. Credit quality differs from "AAA" only to a small degree.
S&P, Moody's, A.M. Best, Fitch and DBRS review their ratings periodically and the company cannot assure you that it will maintain the current ratings in the future. Other agencies may also rate the company or its insurance subsidiaries on a solicited or an unsolicited basis.
About Genworth Financial
Genworth is a leading financial security company meeting the retirement, longevity and lifestyle protection, investment and mortgage insurance needs of more than 15 million customers, with a presence in more than 25 countries. For more information, visit www.genworth.com.
Inquiries:
Georgette Nicholas, 804-662-2248
Georgette.Nicholas@genworth.com
 


