FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20041029121946.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On October 25, 2004 Broadcom Corporation entered into a letter agreement with Scott A. McGregor (the "Agreement"), pursuant to which Mr. McGregor will serve as President and Chief Executive Officer of Broadcom, reporting to its Board of Directors, with employment commencing on a full-time basis no later than January 3, 2005 and continuing at-will until either party gives notice of termination. Under the Agreement, Mr. McGregor will receive a base salary at an annual rate of $600,000. The Agreement also provides that Mr. McGregor will be eligible to participate in any cash and/or equity bonus program that Broadcoms Compensation Committee may establish. Upon his commencement of services on a full-time basis (the "Start Date"), Mr. McGregor will be granted an option to purchase 2,000,000 shares of Broadcoms Class A Common Stock with an exercise price per share equal to the closing selling price per share of Broadcoms Class A Common Stock as reported by the NASDAQ National Marke t on the Start Date. The option will vest and become exercisable with respect to twenty-five percent (25%) of the underlying shares upon the first anniversary of the Start Date, and the remaining seventy-five percent (75%) of the underlying shares will vest and become exercisable in a series of 36 successive equal monthly installments upon Mr. McGregors completion of each additional month of service with Broadcom following such anniversary date. In addition, on the Start Date Mr. McGregor will receive an award of 200,000 restricted stock units to acquire an equal number of shares of Broadcoms Class A Common Stock with no cash payment on his part other than applicable income and employment taxes. The restricted stock units will vest in 12 successive equal quarterly installments over the 36-month period of service following the Start Date. The Agreement also provides for the reimbursement of relocation and temporary living expenses (including tax reimbursement for any taxable income realized upon payment of the foregoing) along with other benefits commensurate with those offered to other executive employees of Broadcom. On or about the first anniversary of the Start Date, and contingent upon his continued employment as Chief Executive Officer, Mr. McGregor will receive an additional option grant to purchase 500,000 shares of Broadcoms Class A Common Stock with an exercise price per share equal to the closing selling price per share of Broadcoms Class A Common Stock as reported by the NASDAQ National Market on the grant date. This option will vest in 48 successive equal monthly installments upon Mr. McGregors completion of each additional month of service with Broadcom following the first anniversary of the Start Date. Mr. McGregor will also serve as a member of Broadcoms Board of Directors without additional compensation. Pursuant to the Agreement, if Broadcom terminates Mr. McGregors employment other than for cause or disability or if Mr. McGregor terminates his employment with Broadcom for good reason (a "Termination Event"), and Mr. McGregors employment is not terminated automatically as a result of his death, Broadcom will continue to pay him his then current base salary and will continue to provide benefits for a one year period measured from his termination date. Broadcom will also pay Mr. McGregor certain cash bonuses, if any, applicable to him upon a Termination Event. Also upon a Termination Event Mr. McGregors outstanding stock options, restricted stock units and any other equity awards granted to him by Broadcoms Compensation Committee will immediately vest as if he had completed an additional 24 months of service with the company and will be exercisable for an additional 24 months (or, if earlier, on the date that any such options, restricted stock units or other equity awards would have expired had he remained employed at Broadcom during the 24 month period). The Agreement also provides that if Mr. McGregors employment is terminated by reason of his disability or death, then his outstanding stock options, restricted stock units and any other equity awards granted to him by Broadcom will immediately vest in full upon, and will be exercisable for 12 months after, the date of termination.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On October 26, 2004 Broadcom announced that Scott A. McGregor has been named its President and Chief Executive Officer, effective as of January 3, 2005. The full text of the press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

McGregor to Succeed Lanny Ross as Broadcom President and CEO
IRVINE, Calif.  October 26, 2004  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today announced that its Board of Directors has named Scott A. McGregor as President and Chief Executive Officer, effective January 3, 2005.
Mr. McGregor, 48, will succeed current President and CEO Alan E. "Lanny" Ross, who will retire upon Mr. McGregor's arrival.
Last month, Mr. McGregor announced his departure from the Philips Semiconductors division of Netherlands-based Royal Philips Electronics, where he has been President and CEO since September 2001. His resignation from Philips is effective at the end of this year, and under his agreement with Broadcom, he will become President and CEO of Broadcom on January 3. At that time he will also be appointed to the Broadcom Board of Directors.
"Scott is the ideal CEO for Broadcom at this point in its growth," said Mr. Ross. "He has an excellent understanding of our technologies and end markets, and he knows how to identify future promising emerging markets and profitably grow a business. In his leadership role at Philips, he has unique experience in successfully managing a multi-billion dollar global semiconductor enterprise focused on communications applications for products in the home, in businesses, and in mobile settings. And his extensive background in software and in entrepreneurial companies will be a great asset for Broadcom at this stage of its development."
"We are extremely pleased to have Scott join Broadcom as our new CEO and lead us to the next level of growth," said Dr. Henry Samueli, Broadcom's Chairman, Co-Founder and Chief Technical Officer. "Scott has a keen grasp of communications technologies and how to effectively bring them to market. He has an industry reputation for driving the mantra of ease of use'  that is, a strong belief that very complex communications technology must be harnessed in ways that make end-user devices and equipment easy to use, practical, cost effective, scalable and useful  for both consumer and business markets. The combination of Scott's entrepreneurial background, software and semiconductor expertise, and leadership experience in a large enterprise provides a perfect fit with Broadcom's entrepreneurial culture and is ideally suited to our growth ambitions."
At Philips, Mr. McGregor oversees one of the world's largest semiconductor suppliers, with more than 30,000 employees and nearly $6 billion (U.S.) in sales last year. He joined the Philips Semiconductors group in February 1998 as head of its Emerging Business unit, leading it to profitability and nearly $1 billion in sales before being named President and CEO of Philips Semiconductors in September 2001. The Emerging Business unit served as an incubator where new and promising technologies and products were developed.
Prior to Philips, Mr. McGregor held senior management positions at the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center, where he was involved in designing software for the first personal computers employing graphical user interfaces, and at Microsoft, where he was the architect and development team leader of the original version of Microsoft Windows. Additionally, he served in senior positions at Digital Equipment Corporation (now part of HP), where he led the UNIX workstation software group and was one of the architects of the X Window System, and the Santa Cruz Operation Inc. (SCO), a provider of network computing solutions, where he helped pioneer open software standards.
"The chance to join Broadcom in January as chief executive at this stage in its growth and development is the opportunity of a lifetime," said Mr. McGregor. "Broadcom has built a solid global reputation as a technology and product leader in many wired and wireless communications markets, with a record of consistently superior execution by some of the best engineering talent in the industry. I am looking forward to leading this dynamic team in the future as Broadcom addresses tremendous potential opportunities."
Mr. McGregor holds a bachelor's degree in psychology and a master's degree in computer science and computer engineering from Stanford University.
Mr. Ross, a veteran of 45 years in the semiconductor industry, joined the Broadcom Board of Directors in 1995 and became full-time Chief Operating Officer of the company in the fall of 2002. He was named President and CEO in January 2003, when former CEO and Co-Founder Dr. Henry T. Nicholas III stepped down. At that time, Mr. Ross indicated that he would remain as CEO only until a new permanent chief executive was selected and in place.
Mr. Ross will remain a member of the Broadcom Board of Directors after retiring from the CEO position.
"Lanny has done an exceptional job over the last two years overseeing Broadcom's return to profitability, guiding the company to record revenue levels, and positioning us very well for future opportunities under Scott's stewardship," Dr. Samueli said. "Our shareholders, our employees and our customers are all grateful to him for his tremendous leadership. We look forward to his continuing contributions as a member of the Board."
Dr. Samueli will remain a full-time employee and director of Broadcom, continuing in his role as Chairman of the Board and Chief Technical Officer.
Broadcom Corporation is a leading provider of highly integrated semiconductor solutions that enable broadband communications and networking of voice, video and data services. We design, develop and supply complete system-on-a-chip (SoC) solutions incorporating digital, analog, radio frequency (RF), microprocessor and digital signal processing (DSP) technologies, as well as related hardware and software system-level applications. Our diverse product portfolio addresses every major broadband communications market, and includes solutions for digital cable and satellite set-top boxes; high definition television (HDTV); cable and digital subscriber line (DSL) modems and residential gateways; high-speed transmission and switching for local, metropolitan, wide area and storage networking; home and wireless networking; cellular and terrestrial wireless communications; Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) gateway and telephony systems; broadband network and security processors; and SystemI/O server solutions. These technologies and products support our core mission: Connecting everything.
About Broadcom
Broadcom is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., and may be contacted at 1-949-450-8700 or at .
www.broadcom.com
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
Our Annual Report on
Form 10-K
, subsequent Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q
, recent Current Reports on
Form 8-K
, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release speak only as of this date. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason.
Broadcom
, the pulse logo, Connecting everything
, the Connecting everything logo and SystemI/O
are trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States and certain other countries. Microsoft
and Windows
are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.


