FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20041021163901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     [  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
     [  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
     [  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
     [  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On October 21, 2004, Broadcom Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
     99.1 Press Release dated October 21, 2004 of the Registrant.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
     99.1 Press Release dated October 21, 2004 of the Registrant.

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE, Calif.  October 21, 2004  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today reported financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2004.
Net revenue for the third quarter of 2004 was a record $646.5 million, an increase of 0.8% from the $641.3 million reported for the second quarter of 2004 and an increase of 51.9% from the $425.6 million reported for the third quarter of 2003. Net income computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the third quarter of 2004 was $49.0 million, or $.14 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $63.8 million, or $.18 per share (diluted), for the second quarter of 2004, and a GAAP net loss of $6.3 million, or $.02 per share (basic and diluted), for the third quarter of 2003.
Broadcom reports net income (loss) and basic and diluted net income (loss) per share in accordance with U.S. GAAP and additionally on a non-GAAP basis, referred to as pro forma, which excludes certain charges related to acquisitions, employer payroll tax expense on certain stock option exercises, settlement costs, restructuring costs, gains or losses on strategic investments, non-operating gains, certain other non-cash charges, and the related income tax effects.
Pro forma net income for the third quarter of 2004, computed with the described exclusions from GAAP reporting, was $124.1 million, or $.36 per share (diluted). This compares with pro forma net income of $121.9 million, or $.35 per share (diluted), for the second quarter of 2004, and pro forma net income of $43.8 million, or $.14 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2003.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2004 Results Page 2
GAAP and pro forma net income per share were based on 347.4 million weighted average shares outstanding (diluted) for the third quarter of 2004 and on 352.4 million weighted average shares outstanding (diluted) for the second quarter of 2004. GAAP net loss per share for the third quarter of 2003 was based on 297.3 million weighted average shares outstanding (basic and diluted), and pro forma net income per share for the third quarter of 2003 was based on 319.9 million weighted average shares outstanding (diluted).
Net revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 was $1.861 billion, an increase of 64.6% from the $1.131 billion reported for the nine months ended September 30, 2003. GAAP net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 was $152.7 million, or $.44 per share (diluted), compared with a GAAP net loss of $965.9 million, or $3.36 per share (basic and diluted), for the nine months ended September 30, 2003.
Pro forma net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 was $344.8 million, or $.99 per share (diluted), compared with pro forma net income of $90.4 million, or $.30 per share (diluted), for the nine months ended September 30, 2003.
GAAP and pro forma net income per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 were based on 347.4 million weighted average shares outstanding (diluted). GAAP net loss per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2003 was based on 287.8 million weighted average shares outstanding (basic and diluted). Pro forma net income per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2003 was based on 305.3 million weighted average shares outstanding (diluted).
Broadcom believes pro forma reporting provides meaningful insight into the company's ongoing economic performance and therefore uses pro forma reporting internally in evaluating and managing the company's operations. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors to enable them to perform additional comparisons of operating results and to illustrate the results of ongoing operations. A reconciliation of GAAP net income (loss) to pro forma net income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2004 and 2003 appears in the financial statements portion of this release.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2004 Results Page 3
"During the third quarter we were able once again to attain record revenues and strong cash generation in spite of the previously-disclosed negative impact of excess inventory within the supply chain," said Alan E. Ross, Broadcom's President and CEO. "While the inventory correction touched all of Broadcom's business groups, it was most pronounced with a limited number of customers in the Broadband Communications and Mobile & Wireless Groups. In addition, during the quarter we experienced the first real impact of the long-anticipated decline in our chipset business for servers based on Intel processors. Yet even in the midst of these adjustments, Broadcom's continuing ability to enter new markets and to drive the adoption of innovative technologies into new and existing markets enabled the company to generate strong growth within the Bluetooth, wireless LAN and Gigabit Ethernet areas."
Following is a review of selected key accomplishments and progress of the company during the third quarter of 2004:
As cellular carriers look for ways to expand revenue growth by increasing the average revenue per user, they are aggressively expanding service offerings beyond traditional voice service to include video and data services. The rollout of these new services is forcing the migration of cellular network devices from voice-only phones to converged communication platforms. In addition to providing traditional voice-only services, many new mobile devices coming to market offer integrated features such as Bluetooth personal area networking, digital cameras, digital video recorders, gaming consoles, MP3 playback, personal organizers, TV receivers and wireless local area networking (WLAN). During the third quarter, Broadcom's Mobile & Wireless Group completed the acquisitions of Zyray Wireless Inc., a leading developer of baseband co-processors addressing third generation WCDMA cellular communications technology, and Alphamosaic Limited, a leading developer of advanced mobile imaging, multimedia and 3D graphics technology optimized for use in cellphones and other mobile devices. These acquisitions expand the number of networks and mobile devices in which Broadcom-enabled baseband solutions will operate and enhance Broadcom's average selling price (ASP) opportunity within a given mobile device.
Combining Zyray's WCDMA co-processor with Broadcom's single-chip EDGE/GPRS/GSM and GPRS/GSM baseband processors will enable customers to quickly bring to market two-chip WCDMA multimode phones while providing a roadmap to a future single-chip solution. Alphamosaic's
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2004 Results Page 4
processors combine video and audio processing, polyphonic sound synthesis and an LCD controller to offer audio and video record/playback, mobile TV and 3D mobile gaming.
Earlier this year Broadcom acquired WIDCOMM, Inc., provider of the most widely adopted Bluetooth software, enabling Broadcom to deliver products with assured interoperability and the highest level of functionality. Shortly thereafter, Broadcom announced an engagement to supply silicon and software for Bluetooth wireless functionality in notebook computers from Acer. The announcement underscored Broadcom's ability to quickly and effectively integrate its acquisitions, and to combine organic and acquired capabilities.
Broadcom's wireless LAN solutions were among the first to be Wi-Fi CERTIFIED for WPA2 (Wi-Fi Protected Access 2) and WMM (Wi-Fi Multimedia). WPA2 is the next generation Wi-Fi security standard, combining the most powerful authentication and encryption techniques to protect wireless networks from unauthorized use. WMM provides advanced quality of service (QoS) features for Wi-Fi networks to improve the end-user experience by prioritizing audio, video and voice traffic and optimizing the way shared network resources are allocated among competing applications. Broadcom's products can also be found in the Wi-Fi Alliance test environments for both WPA2 and WMM.
In the Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) area, Broadcom announced its participation in AT&T's VoIP Innovation and Interoperability Program, which is designed to enable manufacturers to build VoIP consumer and business electronic products compatible with AT&T VoIP network services. Broadcom is working with AT&T to develop VoIP software and chipsets that can be used in a wide variety of consumer electronic products, including broadband modems, corded and cordless phones, Wi-Fi phones, set-top boxes, residential gateways, personal computers and other consumer communication devices.
ARM and Broadcom entered into a broad agreement to partner in the development of next generation ARM technology-based products optimized for a wide range of communications applications. The partnership enables Broadcom to use various ARM technologies to accelerate its leadership position in a number of markets, including next generation mobile, networking and wireless devices. Broadcom's expertise in broadband and wireless communications will assist ARM in developing better microprocessor solutions for these high growth markets.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2004 Results Page 5
CableLabs chose the Broadcom BroadVoice16 voice compression codec as one of two royalty-free voice codecs for all future PacketCable 1.1 and 1.0 certified and qualified embedded multimedia terminal adapters and public switch telephone network media gateways beginning in April 2005, pending the satisfaction of certain conditions. A mandatory voice compression codec in PacketCable products provides cable operators with universal toll-quality voice compression for VoIP telephony services over cable. Prior to the new codec requirements, toll-quality voice compression codecs were optional within with the PacketCable specification.
In response to the unique competitive dynamics within the Intel processor-based server I/O chipset market, Broadcom in August 2003 announced plans to actively diversify its ServerWorks revenue stream beyond Intel-based platforms in light of the anticipated decline in its Intel processor server chipset business. The new areas of focus are alternative server I/O chipset platforms and the storage market. During the third quarter of 2004, Broadcom's Enterprise Computing Group continued development on server platform products that support the AMD Opteron processor. These products are expected to generate revenue starting in 2005. The unique combination of the Broadcom and AMD solutions will enable original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to bring to market highly differentiated products that allow end customers to deploy higher I/O bandwidth with greater reliability, availability and serviceability.
Within the storage market, Enterprise Computing began shipping the BC4000 series of RAID host bus adapters, delivering a highly reliable, high performance Serial ATA RAID controller card for both Microsoft Windows and Linux operating systems. The BC4000 provides an extensive feature set tailored for small-to-medium-sized businesses and enterprise workgroups seeking to improve data integrity and data access without the high costs usually associated with enterprise class RAID functionality. In addition, Tom's Hardware, an independent resource for PC hardware reviews and news, tested the leading Serial ATA RAID controllers and declared the BC4000 to be the new benchmark for both functionality and I/O performance. Broadcom is a platinum sponsor at the Storage Networking World Conference, October 25-28 in Orlando, FL., where the company will unveil next generation storage technologies and products.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2004 Results Page 6
"Looking forward, we expect to see a further slowdown in orders in the near term due to continuing customer inventory issues, and we anticipate a steeper decline in the Intel processor server I/O chipset business going forward," Ross said. "While there will always be short-term fluctuations in our business, Broadcom's focus remains on entering new markets and bringing new products into existing markets, a focus that we continue to believe enables Broadcom to be successful in the long term. The portfolio of technologies that we have been able to bring to market and the breadth of end markets in which Broadcom participates are significant, long-term competitive differentiators and uniquely position Broadcom to provide semiconductor solutions that help change the way individuals communicate at work, at home and on the road."
Broadcom will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its third quarter 2004 financial results and current financial prospects today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (4:45 p.m. Eastern Time). The company will broadcast the conference call via webcast over the Internet. To listen to the webcast, or to view the financial or other statistical information required by SEC Regulation G, please visit the Investors section of the Broadcom website at www.broadcom.com/investors. The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Thursday, November 4, 2004.
Broadcom Corporation is a leading provider of highly integrated semiconductor solutions that enable broadband communications and networking of voice, video and data services. We design, develop and supply complete system-on-a-chip (SoC) solutions incorporating digital, analog, radio frequency (RF), microprocessor and digital signal processing (DSP) technologies, as well as related hardware and software system-level applications. Our diverse product portfolio addresses every major broadband communications market and includes solutions for digital cable and satellite set-top boxes; high definition television (HDTV); cable and digital subscriber line (DSL) modems and residential gateways; high-speed transmission and switching for local, metropolitan, wide area and storage networking; home and wireless networking; cellular and terrestrial wireless communications; Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) gateway and telephony systems; broadband network and security processors; and SystemI/O server solutions. These technologies and products support our core mission: Connecting everything.
About Broadcom
Broadcom is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., and may be contacted at 1-949-450-8700 or at www.broadcom.com.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2004 Results Page 7
:
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release and in the related conference call for analysts and investors, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
Important factors that may cause such a difference for Broadcom include, but are not limited to, general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the broadband communications markets in various geographic regions, and possible disruption in commercial activities related to terrorist activity or armed conflict in the United States and other locations; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; our dependence on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue; our ability to develop new sources of revenue to replace lost revenue from our declining Intel processor sever chipset business; our ability to retain, recruit and hire key executives, technical personnel and other employees in the positions and numbers, with the experience and capabilities, and at the compensation levels needed to implement our business and product plans; the rate at which our present and future customers and end-users adopt Broadcom's technologies and products in our target markets; delays in the adoption and acceptance of industry standards in those markets; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner; the gain or loss of a key customer, design win or order; competitive pressures and other factors such as the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our products and services; the timing of customer-industry qualification and certification of our products and the risks of non-qualification or non-certification; our ability to timely and accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards and to identify opportunities in new markets; changes in our product or customer mix; the volume of our product sales and pricing concessions on volume sales; intellectual property disputes and customer indemnification claims and other types of litigation risk; the availability and pricing of third party semiconductor foundry and assembly capacity and raw materials; fluctuations in the manufacturing yields of our third party semiconductor foundries and other problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products; the risks of producing products with new suppliers and at new fabrication and assembly facilities; problems or delays that we may face in shifting our products to smaller geometry process technologies and in achieving higher levels of design integration; the quality of our products and any remediation costs; the effectiveness of our expense and product cost control and reduction efforts; the risks and uncertainties associated with our international operations, particularly in light of recent events; the effects of natural disasters, public health emergencies, international conflicts and other events beyond our control; the level of orders received that can be shipped in a fiscal quarter; and other factors.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2004 Results Page 8
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything, the Connecting everything logo, BroadVoice16 and SystemI/O are trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States and certain other countries. Bluetooth is a trademark of Bluetooth SIG. Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi Certified, WMM and WPA2 are trademarks of the Wi-Fi Alliance. ARM is a trademark of ARM Limited. Microsoft and Windows are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. Linux is a trademark of Linus Torvalds. PacketCable is a trademark of Cable Television Laboratories, Inc. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2004 Results Page 9
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2004 Results Page 10
The following represents reconciliation (unaudited) of GAAP net income (loss) to pro forma non-GAAP net income.
Pro Forma Non-GAAP Adjustments
The above pro forma non-GAAP adjustments are based upon our unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the periods shown. These adjustments are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). However, Broadcom believes pro forma non-GAAP reporting provides meaningful insight into the company's ongoing economic performance and therefore uses pro forma non-GAAP reporting internally in evaluating and managing the company's operations. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors to enable them to perform additional comparisons of operating results and to illustrate the results of ongoing operations.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2004 Results Page 11
Pro Forma Non-GAAP Only
The above pro forma non-GAAP statements are based upon our unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the periods shown, with certain adjustments. This presentation is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and may not be consistent with the presentation used by other companies. However, Broadcom believes pro forma non-GAAP reporting provides meaningful insight into the company's ongoing economic performance and therefore uses pro forma non-GAAP reporting internally in evaluating and managing the company's operations. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors to enable them to perform additional comparisons of operating results and to illustrate the results of ongoing operations.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2004 Results Page 12


