FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20050127162759.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On January 27, 2005, Broadcom Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
(c) Exhibits

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE, Calif.  January 27, 2005  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today reported unaudited financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2004.
Net revenue for the fourth quarter of 2004 was $539.4 million, a decrease of 16.6% from the $646.5 million reported for the third quarter of 2004 and an increase of 12.6% from the $479.1 million reported for the fourth quarter of 2003. Net income computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the fourth quarter of 2004 was $71.1 million, or $.20 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $43.9 million, or $.13 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2004, and GAAP net income of $6.1 million, or $.02 per share (diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2003.
Broadcom reports net income (loss) and basic and diluted net income (loss) per share in accordance with U.S. GAAP and additionally on a non-GAAP basis, referred to as pro forma, which excludes certain charges related to acquisitions, stock-based compensation, employer payroll tax expense on certain stock option exercises, settlement costs, restructuring costs, gains or losses on strategic investments, non-operating gains, certain other non-cash charges, valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, and the related income tax effects.
Pro forma net income for the fourth quarter of 2004, computed with the described exclusions from GAAP reporting, was $80.7 million, or $.23 per share (diluted). This compares with pro forma net income of $124.1 million, or $.36 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2004, and pro forma net income of $61.3 million, or $.19 per share (diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2003.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2004 Results Page 2
GAAP and pro forma net income per share were based on 353.8 million weighted average shares outstanding (diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2004. GAAP and pro forma net income per share were based on 347.4 million weighted average shares outstanding (diluted) for the third quarter of 2004 and 330.8 million weighted average shares outstanding (diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2003.
Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $2.401 billion, an increase of 49.1% from the $1.610 billion reported for the year ended December 31, 2003. GAAP net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $218.7 million, or $.63 per share (diluted), compared with a GAAP net loss of $959.9 million, or $3.29 per share (basic and diluted), for the year ended December 31, 2003.
Pro forma net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $425.5 million, or $1.22 per share (diluted), compared with pro forma net income of $151.7 million, or $.49 per share (diluted), for the year ended December 31, 2003.
GAAP and pro forma net income per share for the year ended December 31, 2004 were based on 349.0 million weighted average shares outstanding (diluted). GAAP net loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2003 was based on 292.0 million weighted average shares outstanding (basic and diluted). Pro forma net income per share for the year ended December 31, 2003 was based on 311.7 million weighted average shares outstanding (diluted).
Broadcom believes pro forma reporting provides meaningful insight into the company's ongoing economic performance and therefore uses pro forma reporting internally to assist in evaluating and managing the company's operations. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors to enable them to perform additional comparisons of operating results and to illustrate the results of ongoing operations. A reconciliation of GAAP net income (loss) to pro forma net income for the three months and fiscal years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 appears in the financial statements portion of this release.
"Fiscal 2004 was a strong year for Broadcom, as we increased revenue and GAAP and pro forma net income to record levels, strengthened our cash position and continued to expand our presence within new and emerging end markets," commented Scott McGregor, Broadcom's President and Chief Executive Officer. "As discussed previously, our fourth quarter results were negatively impacted by the
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2004 Results Page 3
industry-wide inventory correction that affected all of Broadcom's business groups, but which was most pronounced within a limited number of customers in our direct broadcast satellite (DBS) and enterprise networking businesses. In addition, we continued to experience the long-anticipated decline in our chipset business for servers based on Intel processors. Our focus remains on entering new markets and bringing new products into existing markets, a focus that should enable Broadcom to be successful in the long-term."
Following is a review of selected key accomplishments and progress of the company during the fourth quarter of 2004:
Broadcom, the market share leader in Wi-Fi, expanded its portfolio of leading products in the Wi-Fi market with the introduction of a number of new products and technologies to drive the adoption of wireless LAN into additional applications beyond just PC connectivity. Broadcom began shipping a new line of 54g Wi-Fi products with integrated universal serial bus (USB) 2.0 capabilities. This new product line enables manufacturers to add high-performance IEEE 802.11g and 802.11a/g Wi-Fi connectivity to any device with a USB 2.0 port, including PCs, printers and other computer peripherals and consumer electronic devices. In addition, Broadcom released its innovative BroadRange technology that enables Wi-Fi users to maintain high-speed wireless connections at distances up to 50 percent greater than previous generation solutions.
The combination of these new products and technologies, along with Broadcom's recently introduced SecureEasySetup technology for faster setup of Wi-Fi networks and increased security, enable more devices to quickly access a wireless network while simultaneously increasing the ease of use for the consumer. During the fourth quarter, Apple Computer chose to use Broadcom 54g technology for its wireless products including the AirPort Express. In addition, HP selected Broadcom's 54g technology for three of its newly introduced printers, the HP Photosmart 2700 All-in-One series, HP Officejet 7410 All-in-One and HP Deskjet 6840 Color Inkjet Printer. Broadcom's technology provides a fast, convenient way for consumers and small businesses to share printing and scanning functionality among PCs on a wireless network.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2004 Results Page 4
As a complement to its Wi-Fi product family, Broadcom continued to upgrade and improve its Bluetooth family of products, including a new version of the industry's most widely adopted Bluetooth software, enhancing security and adding advanced audio/video capabilities. Broadcom also introduced the industry's first single-chip Bluetooth device manufactured in 0.13-micron process technology that is enabled with Enhanced Data Rate technology. Mobile phones, notebook and desktop computers, PDAs and wireless peripherals equipped with Broadcom's new Bluetooth solutions are able to offer superior wireless multimedia capabilities, such as streaming audio and video.
Within the emerging Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) market, Broadcom introduced a chipset for wireless IP phones that offers enterprises and consumers a cordless phone replacement that can also support data applications such as web browsing, email and instant messaging. The solution is based on the convergence of the company's award-winning 54g wireless LAN and field-proven VoIP technologies. Scientific-Atlanta also chose Broadcom's VoIP silicon and software for its next generation VoIP adapters. The integration and performance that Broadcom has achieved with its VoIP silicon are enabling Scientific-Atlanta to deliver cost-effective, high-performance VoIP telephone adapters compatible with operators' VoIP network service offerings worldwide.
In the Gigabit Ethernet (GbE) controller market, Broadcom captured the number one worldwide market share position based on shipments of GbE controllers during the first half of the year, according to two leading independent research firms, IDC and Dell'Oro. Broadcom attained this position with the introduction of new features and functions in its NetXtreme controller family as well as by providing leading OEMs with a roadmap of future functionality, such as the company's inventive converged network interface controller (C-NIC) product line that combines networking, storage and clustering onto a single controller.
As testament to Broadcom's leading position and first-to-market capabilities in the Gigabit Ethernet controller market, the company's NetXtreme controller is shipping as a standard offering in all new PCI Express-based HP business desktop computers. This includes the HP Compaq 7000 series of business desktop PCs, including the dc7100 small form factor, dc7100 convertible mini-tower and dc7100 ultra slim desktop PCs. In addition, NetXtreme PCI-based GbE controllers are deployed in HP's existing family of business PCs, including the HP d530 and d330 business desktops as well as its Compaq Evo line of business notebooks.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2004 Results Page 5
Broadcom enhanced its product suite in the storage and server I/O chipset markets for HyperTransport-based systems to include the industry's first single-chip server I/O controller for HyperTransport-based server platforms featuring RAID5 functionality. This unique HyperTransport bridge incorporates enterprise-class storage functions such as RAID5, controller spanning and online capacity expansion, all of which are accessible directly from software through Broadcom's popular XelCore RAID software stack. Additionally, Broadcom demonstrated its C-NIC product at the Storage Networking World show in October and began shipments of the industry's first Serial RAID-on-Chip device that brings high data reliability and availability to cost-sensitive storage and server platforms that were typically available only with high-end enterprise-class storage systems.
Broadcom expanded its Ethernet networking infrastructure family of products with the introduction of the industry's first 24-port Fast Ethernet switch that integrates 24-port Fast Ethernet physical layer transceivers and 2-port Gigabit Ethernet media access controllers into a single chip tailored for small-to-medium sized business networking applications. The product provides a high-performance, cost-effective and complete local area network switching solution designed to replace existing multiple chip solutions and to leverage a common software platform. Within the Gigabit Ethernet infrastructure market, Broadcom began shipments of the industry's first 0.13-micron octal transceiver optimized for high-density GbE switches, routers and server blades. Broadcom also announced the industry's first family of gigahertz quad-core broadband processors, which are high performance, low power, integrated system-on-a-chip (SoC) processors targeted at data networking and communications applications, as well as security, storage, 3G wireless infrastructure, and high-density computing applications.
In the broadband communications markets, Broadcom introduced products with new features and functions designed to further the company's success in penetrating new end markets and driving new applications into existing markets. These products included a low cost, highly integrated direct broadcast satellite decoder chip that enables system manufacturers to reduce their development costs, allowing them to provide more competitive and cost-effective DBS set-top boxes for receiving basic digital program services.
Broadcom also introduced a new video decoder/audio processor chip that supports H.264-based advanced video compression technology. This is an essential requirement for next generation video/audio consumer products because it significantly reduces the bandwidth required to deliver high
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2004 Results Page 6
definition and digital video content over service provider networks and to store high definition content on conventional DVDs and system hard disks. The new chip also allows reduction in the bandwidth of video/audio content to a level that allows broadcast quality services to be supported over the limited bandwidth of IP telephony networks, thereby enabling the IP set-top box market to emerge.
"In my first four weeks at Broadcom, my goal has been to listen, learn and facilitate," said Mr. McGregor. "By focusing on our strengths and using those strengths to solve our customers' toughest problems, we believe that we will create value for Broadcom's shareholders. As we look toward 2005 and beyond, Broadcom will continue to invest in existing and new technologies, while capitalizing on our strong ability to drive the convergence of features, functions, products and end markets."
Broadcom will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its fourth quarter and fiscal 2004 financial results and current financial prospects today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (4:45 p.m. Eastern Time). The company will broadcast the conference call via webcast over the Internet. To listen to the webcast, or to view the financial or other statistical information required by SEC Regulation G, please visit the Investors section of the Broadcom website at . The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Thursday, February 10, 2005.
www.broadcom.com/investors
The financial results included in this release are unaudited. The complete, audited financial statements of the company for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 will be included in Broadcom's Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed with the SEC on or before March 16, 2005.
Broadcom Corporation is a global leader in wired and wireless broadband communications semiconductors. Our products enable the convergence of high-speed data, high definition video, voice and audio at home, in the office and on the go. Broadcom provides manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices with the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and software solutions. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
About Broadcom
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2004 Results Page 7
Broadcom is one of the world's largest fabless semiconductor companies, with annual revenue of more than $2 billion. The company is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., with offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at 1-949-450-8700 or at
www.broadcom.com.
:
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release and in the related conference call for analysts and investors, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
Our future reported results will be affected by the implementation of accounting rules related to the expensing of stock options. Other important factors that may cause such a difference for Broadcom include, but are not limited to, general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the broadband communications markets in various geographic regions, and possible disruption in commercial activities related to terrorist activity or armed conflict in the United States and other locations; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; our dependence on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue; our ability to develop new sources of revenue to replace lost revenue from our declining Intel processor sever chipset business; our ability to retain, recruit and hire key executives, technical personnel and other employees in the positions and numbers, with the experience and capabilities, and at the compensation levels needed to implement our business and product plans; our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our products and services; the rate at which our present and future customers and end-users adopt Broadcom's technologies and products in our target markets; delays in the adoption and acceptance of industry standards in those markets; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner; the gain or loss of a key customer, design win or order; competitive pressures and other factors such as the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; the timing of customer-industry qualification and certification of our products and the risks of non-qualification or non-certification; our ability to timely and accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards and to identify opportunities in new markets; changes in our product or customer mix; the volume of our product sales and pricing concessions on volume sales; the satisfactory completion of the audits of our financial statements and systems of internal control; intellectual property disputes and customer indemnification claims and other types of litigation risk; the availability and pricing of third party semiconductor foundry and assembly capacity and raw materials; fluctuations in the manufacturing yields of our third party semiconductor foundries and other problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products;
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2004 Results Page 8
the risks of producing products with new suppliers and at new fabrication and assembly facilities; problems or delays that we may face in shifting our products to smaller geometry process technologies and in achieving higher levels of design integration; the quality of our products and any remediation costs; the effectiveness of our expense and product cost control and reduction efforts; the risks and uncertainties associated with our international operations, particularly in light of recent events; the effects of natural disasters, public health emergencies, international conflicts and other events beyond our control; the level of orders received that can be shipped in a fiscal quarter; and other factors.
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything, the Connecting everything logo, 54g , BroadRange, NetXtreme, SecureEasySetup, and Xelcore are trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, EU and/or certain other countries. Bluetooth is a trademark of Bluetooth SIG. Wi-Fi is a trademark of the Wi-Fi Alliance. Intel is a trademark of Intel Corporation. AirPort Express is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. PCI Express is a trademark of the PCI-SIC. HyperTransport is a trademark of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2004 Results Page 9
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2004 Results Page 10
The following represents reconciliation (unaudited) of GAAP net income (loss) to pro forma non-GAAP net income.
Pro Forma Non-GAAP Adjustments
The above pro forma non-GAAP adjustments are based upon our unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the periods shown. These adjustments are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). However, Broadcom believes pro forma non-GAAP reporting provides meaningful insight into the company's ongoing economic performance and therefore uses pro forma non-GAAP reporting internally to assist in evaluating and managing the company's operations. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors to enable them to perform additional comparisons of operating results and to illustrate the results of ongoing operations.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2004 Results Page 11
Pro Forma Non-GAAP Only
The above pro forma non-GAAP statements are based upon our unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the periods shown, with certain adjustments. This presentation is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and may not be consistent with the presentation used by other companies. However, Broadcom believes pro forma non-GAAP reporting provides meaningful insight into the company's ongoing economic performance and therefore uses pro forma non-GAAP reporting internally to assist in evaluating and managing the company's operations. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors to enable them to perform additional comparisons of operating results and to illustrate the results of ongoing operations.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2004 Results Page 12


