FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20051020162117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On October 20, 2005, Broadcom Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE, Calif.  October 20, 2005  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today reported unaudited financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2005.
Net revenue for the third quarter of 2005 was $695.0 million, an increase of 14.9% from the $604.9 million reported for the second quarter of 2005 and an increase of 7.5% from the $646.5 million reported for the third quarter of 2004. Net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the third quarter of 2005 was $132.7 million, or $.35 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $15.1 million, or $.04 per share (diluted), for the second quarter of 2005, and GAAP net income of $43.9 million, or $.13 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2004.
Net revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 was $1.850 billion, a decrease of 0.6% from the $1.861 billion reported for the nine months ended September 30, 2004. GAAP net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 was $216.9 million, or $.59 per share (diluted), compared with a GAAP net income of $147.6 million, or $.42 per share (diluted), for the nine months ended September 30, 2004.
Broadcom reports net income and basic and diluted net income per share in accordance with GAAP and supplementally on a non-GAAP basis, referred to in this release as pro forma non-GAAP. Broadcom's presentation of pro forma non-GAAP financial information excludes certain charges related to acquisitions, stock-based compensation expense, employer payroll tax expense on certain stock option
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results Page 2
exercises, settlement costs, restructuring costs, gains or losses on strategic investments, non-operating gains, certain other non-cash charges, valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, and the related income tax effects of the foregoing adjustments, as well as income tax benefits from adjustments to tax reserves of foreign subsidiaries. Stock-based compensation expense includes the impact of restricted stock units and certain other equity compensation instruments issued by Broadcom as well as stock options and restricted stock assumed in acquisitions. Both GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP net income per share include the dilutive effects of shares issued or issuable under Broadcom's stock-based compensation programs in the computation of weighted average shares outstanding. Reconciliations of GAAP net income to pro forma non-GAAP net income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 appear in the financial statements portion of this release.
Pro forma non-GAAP net income for the third quarter of 2005, computed with the adjustments to GAAP reporting set forth in the attached reconciliation, was $148.0 million, or $.39 per share (diluted). Broadcom reported pro forma non-GAAP net income of $122.2 million, or $.34 per share (diluted), for the second quarter of 2005, and pro forma non-GAAP net income of $124.1 million, or $.36 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2004.
Pro forma non-GAAP net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2005, computed with the adjustments to GAAP reporting set forth in the attached reconciliation, was $351.8 million, or $.96 per share (diluted). This amount compares with pro forma non-GAAP net income of $344.8 million, or $.99 per share (diluted), for the nine months ended September 30, 2004.
Broadcom believes that pro forma non-GAAP reporting, giving effect to the adjustments shown in the attached reconciliation, provides meaningful information and therefore uses pro forma non-GAAP reporting to supplement its GAAP reporting in evaluating operations, managing and benchmarking performance, and determining a portion of bonus compensation. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors, analysts and other interested parties to enable them to perform additional analyses of our operating results and to illustrate the results of operations giving effect to such pro forma non-GAAP adjustments. The pro forma non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results Page 3
"Broadcom's revenue and net income reached record levels in the third quarter, driven by continued broad-based strength within our major target end markets," said Scott McGregor, Broadcom's President and Chief Executive Officer. "We were pleased to see the benefits in our results of Broadcom's recent investments in a number of new end markets such as Bluetooth technology, mobile multimedia applications, and satellite set-top boxes. One of Broadcom's core strengths continues to be our ability to work closely with customers to enable them to bring new and innovative products to market. We accomplish this through targeted investments in specific areas that we believe position the company for sustainable future growth. We will continue to grow our communications IC product portfolio by expanding into new and emerging wired and wireless end markets. In turn, we anticipate that these efforts will directly benefit our shareholders and serve to strengthen relationships with our customers."
"Broadcom is helping to quench the world's insatiable appetite for better, faster and more content-rich communications," Mr. McGregor continued. "From the business executive working on a critical project to the child watching his or her favorite cartoons on a portable video device, Broadcom is powering this communications revolution. By offering a wide array of wired and wireless networking options, Broadcom is breaking down layers of complexity and enabling users to connect in the most efficient manner possible."
Selected Highlights of the Quarter
     Following are some of the key customer, product and technology highlights from Broadcom's third quarter:
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results Page 4
A more comprehensive review of highlights from the third quarter may be found on the Investors section of Broadcom's website at .
www.broadcom.com/investors
As previously announced, Broadcom will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its third quarter 2005 financial results and current financial prospects today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (4:45 p.m. Eastern Time). The company will broadcast the conference call via webcast over the Internet. To listen to the webcast, or to view the financial or other statistical information required by SEC Regulation G, please visit the Investors section of the Broadcom website at . The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Thursday, November 3, 2005.
www.broadcom.com/investors
About Broadcom
Broadcom Corporation is a global leader in wired and wireless broadband communications semiconductors. Our products enable the convergence of high-speed data, high definition video, voice and audio at home, in the office and on the go. Broadcom provides manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices with the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and software solutions. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
Broadcom is one of the world's largest fabless semiconductor companies, with annual revenue of more than $2 billion. The company is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., with offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at 1-949-450-8700 or at .
www.broadcom.com
:
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release and in the related conference call for analysts and investors, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and business, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results Page 5
Our future reported GAAP-based results will be negatively affected by the implementation of new accounting rules related to the expensing of stock options, commencing in 2006. Other important factors that may affect Broadcom's business, results of operations and financial condition include, but are not limited to, general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the broadband communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated, and possible disruption in commercial activities related to terrorist activity or armed conflict; our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products and services or demand for new products requested by our customers; intellectual property disputes and customer indemnification claims and other types of litigation risk; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; the gain or loss of a key customer, design win or order; the rate at which our present and future customers and end-users adopt Broadcom's technologies and products in our target markets; delays in the adoption and acceptance of industry standards in those markets; our ability to retain, recruit and hire key executives, technical personnel and other employees in the positions and numbers, with the experience and capabilities, and at the compensation levels needed to implement our business and product plans; the availability and pricing of third party semiconductor foundry, assembly and test capacity and raw materials; our ability to timely and accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards and to identify opportunities in new markets; the quality of our products and any remediation costs; our dependence on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue; competitive pressures and other factors such as the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; problems or delays that we may face in shifting our products to smaller geometry process technologies and in achieving higher levels of design integration; the timing of customer-industry qualification and certification of our products and the risks of non-qualification or non-certification; changes in our product or customer mix; the volume of our product sales and pricing concessions on volume sales; our ability to develop new sources of revenue to replace lost revenue from our declining Intel processor-based server chipset business; fluctuations in the manufacturing yields of our third party semiconductor foundries and other problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products; the risks of producing products with new suppliers and at new fabrication and assembly facilities; the effectiveness of our expense and product cost control and reduction efforts; the risks and uncertainties associated with our international operations, particularly in light of recent events; the effects of natural disasters, public health emergencies, international conflicts and other events beyond our control; the level of orders received that can be shipped in a fiscal quarter; and other factors.
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything, the Connecting everything logo, NetXtreme and BLINK are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Bluetooth is a trademark of the Bluetooth SIG. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results Page 6
 
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results Page 7
The following represents a reconciliation (unaudited) of GAAP net income to pro forma non-GAAP net income.
Pro Forma Non-GAAP Adjustments
The above pro forma non-GAAP adjustments are based upon our unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the periods shown. These adjustments are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The pro forma non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. However, Broadcom believes that pro forma non-GAAP reporting, giving effect to the adjustments shown in the above reconciliation, provides meaningful information and therefore uses it to supplement its GAAP reporting in evaluating operations, managing and benchmarking performance, and determining a portion of bonus compensation. Both GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP net income per share include the dilutive effects of shares issued or issuable under Broadcom's stock-based compensation programs in the computation of weighted average shares outstanding. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors, analysts and other interested parties to enable them to perform additional analyses of operating results and to illustrate the results of operations giving effect to the pro forma non-GAAP adjustments shown in the above reconciliation.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results Page 8
Pro Forma Non-GAAP Statements
The above pro forma non-GAAP statements are based upon our unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the periods shown, giving effect to the adjustments shown in the attached reconciliation. This presentation is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The pro forma non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. However, Broadcom believes that pro forma non-GAAP reporting, giving effect to the adjustments shown in the attached reconciliation, provides meaningful information and therefore uses it to supplement its GAAP reporting in evaluating operations, managing and benchmarking performance, and determining a portion of bonus compensation. Both GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP net income per share include the dilutive effects of shares issued or issuable under Broadcom's stock-based compensation programs in the computation of weighted average shares outstanding. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors, analysts and other interested parties to enable them to perform additional analyses of operating results and to illustrate the results of operations giving effect to the pro forma non-GAAP adjustments shown in the attached reconciliation.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results Page 9
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2005 Results Page 10


