FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20050105211635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On January 3, 2005, in connection with the election of Scott A. McGregor as President and Chief Executive Officer of Broadcom Corporation, the Compensation Committee of the companys Board of Directors (the "Board") granted Mr. McGregor stock options and restricted stock units, the material terms of which are described below in Item 5.02(c) of this report.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(b) On January 3, 2005 Alan E. Ross retired from his positions as President and Chief Executive Officer of Broadcom Corporation and as a member and as Chairman of the Equity Award Committee of the Board. Mr. Ross will continue to serve as a member of the Board. (c)  (d) On January 3, 2005 the Board elected Scott A. McGregor to succeed Mr. Ross as President and Chief Executive Officer of Broadcom. The material terms and conditions of the letter agreement dated October 25, 2004 between Mr. McGregor and Broadcom (the "Letter Agreement") regarding his employment with the company were previously described in Broadcoms Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission October 29, 2004, which Current Report is incorporated by reference herein. In addition, on January 3, 2005 the Board, acting pursuant to the authority granted to it by Broadcoms Bylaws, increased the size of the Board from six to seven directors and elected Mr. McGregor to fill the v acancy created by such increase. Mr. McGregor was also appointed to serve as a member and as Chairman of the Equity Award Committee of the Board. Prior to joining Broadcom, Mr. McGregor, 48, served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Philips Semiconductors division of Netherlands-based Royal Philips Electronics from September 2001 through October 2004 and as a member of the Group Management Committee of Royal Philips Electronics from September 2001 through December 2004. From February 1998 to September 2001 Mr. McGregor served as the head of the Emerging Business unit of the Philips Semiconductor division and as Executive Vice President for Philips Semiconductors Communications Businesses. Prior to Philips, Mr. McGregor held senior management positions at the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center, where he was involved in designing software for the first personal computers employing graphical user interfaces, and at Microsoft Corporation, where he was the architect and development team l eader of the original version of Microsoft Windows. Additionally, he served in senior positions at Digital Equipment Corporation (now a part of Hewlett-Packard), where he led the UNIX workstation software group and was one of the architects of the X Window System, and at the Santa Cruz Operation Inc. (SCO), a provider of network computing solutions, where he helped pioneer open software standards. Mr. McGregor currently serves as a director of Progress Software Corporation. He holds a B.A. in Psychology and an M.S. in Computer Science and Computer Engineering from Stanford University In connection with his election as President and Chief Executive Officer of Broadcom, the Compensation Committee of the Board granted Mr. McGregor an option to purchase 2,000,000 shares of Broadcoms Class A Common Stock (the "Option"), in accordance with the terms of the Letter Agreement. The Option has an exercise price per share equal to $31.97, the closing selling price per share of Broadcom 9;s Class A Common Stock as reported by the NASDAQ National Market on the date of grant, January 3, 2005 (the "Start Date"). The Option will vest and become exercisable with respect to twenty-five percent (25%) of the underlying shares upon the first anniversary of the Start Date, and the remaining seventy-five percent (75%) of the underlying shares will vest and become exercisable in a series of 36 successive equal monthly installments upon Mr. McGregors completion of each additional month of service with Broadcom following such anniversary date. Additionally, pursuant to the terms of the Letter Agreement, on January 3, 2005 the Compensation Committee of the Board awarded Mr. McGregor 200,000 restricted stock units (the "RSUs") to acquire an equal number of shares of Broadcoms Class A Common Stock with no cash payment on his part other than applicable income and employment taxes. The RSUs will vest in 12 successive equal quarterly installments over the 36-month period of service foll owing the Start Date. Notwithstanding the vesting schedules for the Option and RSUs described above, if Broadcom terminates Mr. McGregors employment other than for cause or disability or if Mr. McGregor terminates his employment with Broadcom for good reason, each as defined in the Letter Agreement (a "Termination Event"), and Mr. McGregors employment is not terminated automatically as a result of his death, the Option and RSUs will immediately vest as if Mr. McGregor had completed an additional 24 months of service with the company, and the Option will be exercisable for 24 months from the effective date of his termination (or, if earlier, on the date that such Option would have expired had he remained employed at Broadcom during the 24 month period). If Mr. McGregors employment is terminated by reason of his disability or death, then the Option and RSUs will immediately vest in full upon, and will be exercisable for 12 months after, the effective date of his termination. Broadcom issued a related press release on January 3, 2005 announcing Mr. McGregors election as President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the Board and his commencement of services to the company. The full text of the press release has been attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release dated January 3, 2005 of the Registrant.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

IRVINE, Calif.  January 3, 2004  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) announced that Scott A. McGregor today joined the company as President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors, following his formal election to those positions by the Broadcom Board of Directors.
McGregor, 48, who most recently served as President and CEO of the Philips Semiconductors division of Royal Philips Electronics in The Netherlands, started work today in his new position at Broadcom's headquarters in Irvine, Calif. In its October 26, 2004 announcement regarding McGregor's appointment, the company noted that his start date would be today.
McGregor succeeds Alan E. "Lanny" Ross, a semiconductor industry veteran and long-time member of Broadcom's Board of Directors who took on the additional position of President and CEO in January 2003. At that time, Ross, who is 69, said he would stay on as CEO until the company found a long-term successor. Ross will continue to serve on the Board of Directors.
Broadcom Corporation is a leading provider of highly integrated semiconductor solutions that enable broadband communications and networking of voice, video and data services. We design, develop and supply complete system-on-a-chip (SoC) solutions incorporating digital, analog, radio frequency (RF), microprocessor and digital signal processing (DSP) technologies, as well as related hardware and software system-level applications. Our diverse product portfolio addresses every major broadband communications market and includes solutions for digital cable and satellite set-top boxes; high definition television (HDTV); cable and digital subscriber line (DSL) modems and residential gateways; high-speed transmission and switching for local, metropolitan, wide area and storage networking; home and wireless networking; cellular and terrestrial wireless communications; Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) gateway and telephony systems; broadband network and security processors; and SystemI/O server solutions. These technologies and products support our core mission: Connecting everything.
About Broadcom
Broadcom is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., and may be contacted at 1-949-450-8700 or at .
www.broadcom.com
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
Our Annual Report on
Form 10-K
, subsequent Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q
, recent Current Reports on
Form 8-K
, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release speak only as of this date. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason.
Broadcom
, the pulse logo, Connecting everything
, the Connecting everything logo and SystemI/O
are trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States and certain other countries. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.


