FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20050421161402.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On April 21, 2005, Broadcom Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
          99.1 Press Release dated April 21, 2005 of the Registrant.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
(c) Exhibits
     99.1 Press Release dated April 21, 2005 of the Registrant.

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE, Calif.  April 21, 2005  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today reported unaudited financial results for its first fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005.
Net revenue for the first quarter of 2005 was $550.3 million, an increase of 2.0% from the $539.4 million reported for the fourth quarter of 2004 and a decrease of 4.0% from the $573.4 million reported for the first quarter of 2004. Net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the first quarter of 2005 was $69.2 million, or $.19 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $71.1 million, or $.20 per share (diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2004, and GAAP net income of $39.9 million, or $.12 per share (diluted), for the first quarter of 2004.
Broadcom reports net income and basic and diluted net income per share in accordance with GAAP and additionally on a non-GAAP basis, referred to as pro forma, which excludes certain charges related to acquisitions, stock-based compensation, employer payroll tax expense on certain stock option exercises, settlement costs, restructuring costs, gains or losses on strategic investments, non-operating gains, certain other non-cash charges, valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, and the related income tax effects.
Pro forma net income for the first quarter of 2005, computed with the described exclusions from GAAP reporting, was $81.6 million, or $.23 per share (diluted). This compares with pro forma net income of $80.7 million, or $.23 per share (diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2004, and pro forma net income of $98.8 million, or $.29 per share (diluted), for the first quarter of 2004.
 
Broadcom Reports First Quarter 2005 Results Page 2
Broadcom believes pro forma reporting provides meaningful insight into the company's ongoing economic performance and therefore uses pro forma reporting internally to assist in evaluating and managing the company's operations. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors to enable them to perform additional comparisons of operating results and to illustrate the results of ongoing operations. A reconciliation of GAAP net income to pro forma net income for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 appears in the financial statements portion of this release.
"We were pleased with our progress in the first quarter as revenue increased over the fourth quarter of 2004 and the company again generated strong cash flow from operations, leading to record levels of cash and marketable securities," said Scott McGregor, Broadcom's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Our first quarter results highlight Broadcom's ability to profitably grow even in the midst of the challenging sales environment we have been facing recently. Looking forward, we are experiencing a strengthening in customer orders, leading us to believe that many of the customer inventory issues that affected our fourth and first quarter results are now behind us."
Selected Highlights of the Quarter
     Following are some of the key customer, product and technology highlights from Broadcom's first quarter:
 
Broadcom Reports First Quarter 2005 Results Page 3
A more comprehensive review of highlights from the quarter may be found on the Investors section of Broadcom's website at .
www.broadcom.com/investors
"We continue to invest aggressively in a number of growth initiatives in both new and existing end markets with the goal of enabling our end customers to continue to bring innovative and unique features and products to market," said Mr. McGregor. "Our ability to hire, inspire and develop the very best people in the industry worldwide, combined with our proven ability to execute, gives Broadcom the confidence to continue to invest aggressively to capitalize on the opportunities ahead."
As previously announced, Broadcom will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its first quarter 2005 financial results and current financial prospects today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (4:45 p.m. Eastern Time). The company will broadcast the conference call via webcast over the Internet. To listen to the webcast, or to view the financial or other statistical information required by SEC Regulation G, please visit the Investors section of the Broadcom website at . The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Thursday, May 5, 2005.
www.broadcom.com/investors
Broadcom Corporation is a global leader in wired and wireless broadband communications semiconductors. Our products enable the convergence of high-speed data, high definition video, voice and audio at home, in the office and on the go. Broadcom provides manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices with the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and software solutions. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
About Broadcom
Broadcom is one of the world's largest fabless semiconductor companies, with annual revenue of more than $2 billion. The company is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., with offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at 1-949-450-8700 or at .
www.broadcom.com
 
Broadcom Reports First Quarter 2005 Results Page 4
:
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release and in the related conference call for analysts and investors, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and business, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
Our future reported results will be affected by the implementation of new accounting rules related to the expensing of stock options, commencing in 2006. Other important factors that may affect Broadcom's business, results of operations and financial condition include, but are not limited to, general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the broadband communications markets in various geographic regions, and possible disruption in commercial activities related to terrorist activity or armed conflict; our ability to scale operations in response to changes in demand for our products and services; our dependence on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue; our ability to develop new sources of revenue to replace lost revenue from our declining Intel processor-based server chipset business; a possible adverse outcome in or the settlement of our pending securities litigation or other actual or threatened litigation; intellectual property disputes and customer indemnification claims and other types of litigation risk; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; the gain or loss of a key customer, design win or order; competitive pressures and other factors such as the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; our ability to retain, recruit and hire key executives, technical personnel and other employees in the positions and numbers, with the experience and capabilities, and at the compensation levels needed to implement our business and product plans; the rate at which our present and future customers and end-users adopt Broadcom's technologies and products in our target markets; delays in the adoption and acceptance of industry standards in those markets; our ability to timely and accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards and to identify opportunities in new markets; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner; the timing of customer-industry qualification and certification of our products and the risks of non-qualification or non-certification; changes in our product or customer mix; the volume of our product sales and pricing concessions on volume sales; the availability and pricing of third party semiconductor foundry and assembly capacity and raw materials; fluctuations in the manufacturing yields of our third party semiconductor foundries and other problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products; the risks of producing products with new suppliers and at new fabrication and assembly facilities; problems or delays that we may face in shifting our products to smaller geometry process technologies and in achieving higher levels of design integration; the quality of our products and any remediation costs; the effectiveness of our expense and product cost control and reduction efforts; the risks and uncertainties associated with our international
 
Broadcom Reports First Quarter 2005 Results Page 5
operations, particularly in light of recent events; the effects of natural disasters, public health emergencies, international conflicts and other events beyond our control; the level of orders received that can be shipped in a fiscal quarter; and other factors.
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything the Connecting everything logo and StrataXGS III are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Bluetooth is a trademark of the Bluetooth SIG. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
 
Broadcom Reports First Quarter 2005 Results
Page 6
 
Broadcom Reports First Quarter 2005 Results
Page 7
The following represents reconciliation (unaudited) of GAAP net income to pro forma non-GAAP net income.
Pro Forma Non-GAAP Adjustments
The above pro forma non-GAAP adjustments are based upon our unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the periods shown. These adjustments are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). However, Broadcom believes pro forma non-GAAP reporting provides meaningful insight into the company's ongoing economic performance and therefore uses pro forma non-GAAP reporting internally to assist in evaluating and managing the company's operations. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors to enable them to perform additional comparisons of operating results and to illustrate the results of ongoing operations.
 
Broadcom Reports First Quarter 2005 Results
Page 8
Pro Forma Non-GAAP Only
The above pro forma non-GAAP statements are based upon our unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the periods shown, with certain adjustments. This presentation is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and may not be consistent with the presentation used by other companies. However, Broadcom believes pro forma non-GAAP reporting provides meaningful insight into the company's ongoing economic performance and therefore uses pro forma non-GAAP reporting internally to assist in evaluating and managing the company's operations. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors to enable them to perform additional comparisons of operating results and to illustrate the results of ongoing operations.
 
Broadcom Reports First Quarter 2005 Results
Page 9


