FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20051123170243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(d) Effective as of November 22, 2005 the Board of Directors of Broadcom Corporation (the "Board") appointed Nancy H. Handel to fill an existing vacancy on the Board. The Board has not yet appointed Ms. Handel to any Board committee. Broadcom issued a related press release announcing the appointment of Ms. Handel to the Board on November 23, 2005. The full text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 Press Release dated November 23, 2005 of the Registrant.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE and SAN JOSE, Calif.  November 23, 2005  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today announced the appointment of Nancy H. Handel to its Board of Directors.
Ms. Handel, 54, serves as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Applied Materials, Inc. (Nasdaq: AMAT), a major supplier of equipment and services to the global semiconductor industry. Named CFO in October 2004, she has been an executive with Applied Materials since 1985, serving in a variety of key financial leadership positions at the company, including four years as Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer, and 13 years as Treasurer.
At Applied Materials, Ms. Handel has been responsible for various global functions, such as treasury, tax, new business development, corporate accounting, external financial reporting, financial aspects of Sarbanes-Oxley compliance, investor relations and operations finance, including product groups and regions worldwide. Prior to joining Applied Materials, she held financial management positions at Raychem Corporation, Crown Zellerbach Corporation and The Aviation Group.
In the Silicon Valley community, Ms. Handel has served in leadership positions in a number of organizations, including the Girl Scouts of Santa Clara County, where she was on the Board of Directors from 1991 to 2004, serving as Board President for the last six years of her service. She currently serves on the Board of the American Leadership Forum of Silicon Valley, a nonprofit organization that brings senior level leaders together to build philanthropy, public service and community in Silicon Valley.
Ms. Handel received a B.S. in Economics from Purdue University and an M.B.A. from The Ohio State University, and is a graduate of the Stanford Executive Program.
"Nancy has built an excellent reputation in the high tech industry for her executive leadership in finance at a major global company," said Scott A. McGregor, Broadcom's President and CEO. "With more than two decades of financial experience in leadership roles at Applied Materials and her understanding of the global semiconductor industry, she will be a major asset on our Board."
Broadcom's Board of Directors now has nine members, of which six are independent directors, including Ms. Handel and Maureen E. "Moe" Grzelakowski, whose appointment to the Board was announced November 17. The members of the Board include Mr. McGregor; Ms. Grzelakowski; Ms. Handel; Dr. Henry Samueli, Broadcom's co-founder, Chairman and Chief Technical Officer; George L. Farinsky; John Major; Alan E. Ross; Robert E. Switz; and Werner F. Wolfen.
Broadcom Corporation is a global leader in wired and wireless broadband communications semiconductors. Our products enable the convergence of high-speed data, high definition video, voice and audio at home, in the office and on the go. Broadcom provides manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices with the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and software solutions. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
About Broadcom
Broadcom is one of the world's largest fabless semiconductor companies, with annual revenue of more than $2 billion. The company is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., with offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at 1-949-450-8700 or at www.broadcom.com.
:
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward- looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and business, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
Our Annual Report on
Form 10-K
, subsequent Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q
, recent Current Reports on
Form 8-K
, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release speak only as of this date. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.


