FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20050629171001.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Broadcom Corporation entered into a Stipulation of Settlement (the "Stipulation") as of June 24, 2005 to settle the securities class action litigation entitled In re Broadcom Corporation Securities Litigation, Case No. SA CV 01-275 GLT (MLGx), pending in the United States District Court for the Central District of California (the "Court") against Broadcom and certain of its current and former officers and directors (the "Class Action"). The parties to the Stipulation are the Minnesota State Board of Investment, the lead plaintiff in the Class Action, on behalf of itself and members of the class certified on October 15, 2003 (collectively, the "Plaintiffs"), and Broadcom, Henry T. Nicholas III, the former President and Chief Executive Officer and a former director of the company, Henry Samueli, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Technical Officer, and William J. Ruehle, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (collectively, the "Defendants"). Under the Stipulation, the parties agre ed that the Class Action will be dismissed in exchange for an aggregate payment of $150 million in cash (the "Settlement Fund"). Broadcom expects that its insurance carriers will pay approximately $40 million of that amount. Of the remaining balance, approximately $108 million will be paid by Broadcom into an escrow account on or before July 12, 2005. Any additional amount necessary to bring the Settlement Fund to $150 million will be paid into the escrow account by Broadcom within two business days before the Court hearing on final approval of the Stipulation. On June 27, 2005, the Court granted preliminary approval of the Stipulation and the settlement set forth therein and set a hearing date of September 12, 2005 on a motion for final approval. However, the settlement remains subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, including without limitation (1) a commitment by Broadcoms insurance carriers to fund their portion of the Settlement Fund, (2) notification to members of the class i n the Class Action, and (3) final approval by the Court. If for any reason the settlement does not become final, or if the Stipulation is cancelled or terminated, contributions to the Settlement Fund will be returned to the parties who made them (less any notice or administrative costs incurred pursuant to the Stipulation) and the parties will be restored to their respective positions in the litigation as of June 20, 2005. Terms for distribution of the Settlement Fund, and other terms of settlement, will be disclosed in the notice to be sent to members of the class. Pursuant to the Stipulation, all costs of preparing and distributing notices to members of the class and administration of the settlement, together with all fees and expenses awarded to Plaintiffs counsel and certain other expenses, will be paid out of the Settlement Fund, which will be maintained by an escrow agent under the Courts supervision. The Court has appointed Gilardi & Co., LLC to be Claims Administrator. < br>The Plaintiffs have agreed to dismiss the Class Action with prejudice effective upon final Court approval. The Plaintiffs and Defendants have also agreed to reciprocal releases covering all asserted and unasserted, known and unknown, claims relating to the Class Action. As part of the settlement, Broadcom and the other Defendants continue to deny any liability or wrongdoing with respect to the claims raised in the Class Action. The material terms of the settlement contained in the Stipulation were previously agreed to in a Memorandum of Understanding between counsel for the Plaintiffs and counsel for the Defendants that was executed on June 23, 2005 (the "MOU"). A copy of the press release issued by Broadcom with respect to the MOU is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein. CAUTION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS All statements included or incorporated by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on Broadcoms current expectations, estimates and projections about its industry and business, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by Broadcom, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement, including, but not limited to, the risks that the settlement will not be completed or approved by the Court, that any Court approval will be successfully reversed on appeal , or that Broadcom will not be able to obtain contributions to the settlement from one or more of its insurance carriers. Broadcoms Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect its business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this Current Report speak only as of this date. Broadcom undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason, except as required by law or regulation.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release dated June 24, 2005 of the Registrant.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE, Calif.  June 24, 2005  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq:BRCM) today announced that it has reached an agreement in principle to settle the securities class action litigation currently pending against the company and certain of its current and former officers and directors.
The class action was brought on behalf of persons and entities who bought or acquired shares of Broadcom's common stock, or options on such shares, between July 31, 2000 and February 26, 2001. The proposed settlement remains subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, including negotiation and execution of a final stipulation of settlement, approval by the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California following notice to members of the class, and a commitment by the company's insurance carriers to fund a portion of the settlement payments.
Under the proposed settlement, the class action litigation will be dismissed in exchange for an aggregate cash payment of $150 million. Broadcom expects that approximately $40 million of that amount will be paid by its insurance carriers, with the balance of approximately $110 million to be paid by the company. The company expects to record its estimated portion of the settlement payment as a one-time charge in its statement of operations for the second quarter of 2005 and to pay that amount in cash into escrow in the third quarter of 2005.
Terms for distribution of the settlement fund to class members after final court approval of the settlement, and other terms of settlement, will be disclosed in a notice to be sent to class members after preliminary court approval. The court's preliminary approval hearing is scheduled for June 27, 2005.
The company and the other defendants have steadfastly maintained that the claims raised in the class action litigation were without merit, and have vigorously contested those claims. As part of the settlement, the company and other defendants continue to deny any liability or wrongdoing.
"We have agreed to settle this lawsuit so that we may put this longstanding matter behind us and focus Broadcom's energies and resources on our business objectives and the many market opportunities before us," said David A. Dull, Broadcom's Senior Vice President and General Counsel. "We have vigorously fought these charges for over four years, and we were fully prepared to take this matter to a trial on the merits. We believe we would have prevailed at trial. But, given the strength of our balance sheet and our future prospects, we concluded that this settlement provides a reasonable opportunity to avoid the continuing costs and distraction of this litigation, and eliminates the chance, however slight, of a substantially greater financial exposure that is inherent in a jury trial."
Broadcom Corporation is a global leader in wired and wireless broadband communications semiconductors. Our products enable the convergence of high-speed data, high definition video, voice and audio at home, in the office and on the go. Broadcom provides manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices with the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and software solutions. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
About Broadcom
Broadcom is one of the world's largest fabless semiconductor companies, with annual revenue of more than $2 billion. The company is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., with offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at 1-949-450-8700 or at .
www.broadcom.com
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward- looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and business, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement, including, but not limited to, the risks that the settlement will not be completed or approved by the court, that any court approval will be successfully reversed on appeal, or that the charges resulting from the settlement will be higher than anticipated due to our inability to obtain contributions to the settlement by any of our insurance carriers.
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release speak only as of this date. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU.


