FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20051121170238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(d) On November 15, 2005 the Board of Directors of Broadcom Corporation (the "Board"), acting pursuant to the authority granted to it by Broadcoms Bylaws, increased the size of the Board from seven to nine directors. Effective as of November 15, 2005 Maureen E. Grzelakowski was appointed to fill one of the vacancies created by such increase. The Board has not yet appointed Ms. Grzelakowski to any Board committee. Broadcom issued a related press release announcing the appointment of Ms. Grzelakowski to the Board on November 17, 2005. The full text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release dated November 17, 2005 of the Registrant.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE, Calif.  November 17, 2005  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today announced the appointment of Maureen E. "Moe" Grzelakowski to its Board of Directors.
Ms. Grzelakowski, 51, who is currently a Chicago-based consultant for companies in the Internet and telecommunications industries, held senior positions from 1996 to 1999 at Motorola, Inc., including Senior Vice President and General Manager of Strategic Marketing, Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the Cellular Systems Group, and Vice President and General Manager of the International Cellular Infrastructure Division. From 1992 to 1995, she held several executive positions at AT&T Corp., including Vice President and General Manager of the multi-billion dollar global Switching Systems business. In addition, during her career at AT&T she also served in several positions at Bell Labs, now a subsidiary of Lucent Technologies Inc. In 2000, Ms. Grzelakowski served briefly as Senior Vice President: Office of the Chairman at Dell Inc., where she worked with Founder and Chairman Michael Dell.
Earlier this year, Ms. Grzelakowski published a book entitled , which examines the positive impact motherhood can have on the leadership skills of senior executive women.
Mother Leads Best
Ms. Grzelakowski received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering, an M.S. in Computer Science and an M.B.A. from Northwestern University. She is a senior adviser at Investor Growth Capital, a venture capital and private equity firm, and currently serves as a member of the board of directors of Kemet Electronics Corporation, a manufacturer of solid-state tantalum, multilayer ceramic and aluminum capacitors.
"Moe is one of the most talented executives in the high tech industry, and we are extraordinarily fortunate to have her join our Board of Directors," said Scott A. McGregor, Broadcom's President and CEO. "Moe brings to Broadcom a wealth of experience and insight developed over many years of leading strategy and overseeing operations at major global technology companies."
With the new addition, Broadcom's Board of Directors now has eight members, including five independent directors. The members are Mr. McGregor; Ms. Grzelakowski; Dr. Henry Samueli, Broadcom's co-founder, Chairman and Chief Technical Officer; George L. Farinsky; John Major; Alan E. Ross; Robert E. Switz; and Werner F. Wolfen.
Broadcom Corporation is a global leader in wired and wireless broadband communications semiconductors. Our products enable the convergence of high-speed data, high definition video, voice and audio at home, in the office and on the go. Broadcom provides manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices with the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and software solutions. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
About Broadcom
Broadcom is one of the world's largest fabless semiconductor companies, with annual revenue of more than $2 billion. The company is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., with offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at 1-949-450-8700 or at www.broadcom.com.
:
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward- looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and business, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
Our Annual Report on
Form 10-K
, subsequent Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q
, recent Current Reports on
Form 8-K
, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release speak only as of this date. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.


