FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20060126161921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On January 26, 2006, Broadcom Corporation issued a press release announcing the unaudited financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
          99.1 Press Release dated January 26, 2006 of the Registrant.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE, Calif.  January 26, 2006  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today reported unaudited financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2005.
Net revenue for the fourth quarter of 2005 was $820.6 million, an increase of 18.1% from the $695.0 million reported for the third quarter of 2005 and an increase of 52.1% from the $539.4 million reported for the fourth quarter of 2004. Net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the fourth quarter of 2005 was $194.8 million, or $.50 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $132.7 million, or $.35 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2005, and GAAP net income of $71.1 million, or $.20 per share (diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2004.
Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $2.671 billion, an increase of 11.3% from the $2.401 billion reported for the year ended December 31, 2004. GAAP net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $411.7 million, or $1.10 per share (diluted). That amount compares with a GAAP net income of $218.7 million, or $.63 per share (diluted), for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Broadcom reports net income and basic and diluted net income per share in accordance with GAAP and supplementally on a non-GAAP basis, referred to in this release as "pro forma non-GAAP." Broadcom's presentation of pro forma non-GAAP financial information excludes certain charges related to acquisitions, stock-based compensation expense, employer payroll tax expense on certain stock option
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2005 Results Page 2
exercises, settlement costs, restructuring costs, gains or losses on strategic investments, non-operating gains, certain other non-cash charges, valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, and the related income tax effects of the foregoing adjustments, as well as income tax benefits from adjustments to tax reserves of foreign subsidiaries. Stock-based compensation expense includes the impact of restricted stock units and certain other equity compensation instruments issued by Broadcom as well as stock options and restricted stock assumed in acquisitions. Included in the calculation of weighted average shares outstanding used to compute both GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP net income per share are the dilutive effects of shares issued or issuable under Broadcom's stock-based compensation programs. Reconciliations of GAAP net income to pro forma non-GAAP net income for the three months and years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 appear in the financial statements portion of this release.
Pro forma non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of 2005, computed with the adjustments to GAAP reporting set forth in the attached reconciliation, was $196.8 million, or $.50 per share (diluted). Broadcom reported pro forma non-GAAP net income of $148.0 million, or $.39 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2005, and pro forma non-GAAP net income of $80.7 million, or $.23 per share (diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2004.
Pro forma non-GAAP net income for the year ended December 31, 2005, computed with the adjustments to GAAP reporting set forth in the attached reconciliation, was $548.6 million, or $1.47 per share (diluted). That amount compares with pro forma non-GAAP net income of $425.5 million, or $1.22 per share (diluted), for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Broadcom believes that pro forma non-GAAP reporting, giving effect to the adjustments shown in the attached reconciliation, provides meaningful information and therefore uses pro forma non-GAAP reporting to supplement its GAAP reporting and internally in evaluating operations, managing and benchmarking performance, and determining a portion of bonus compensation. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors, analysts and other interested parties to enable them to perform additional analyses of our operating results and to illustrate the results of operations giving effect to such pro forma non-GAAP adjustments. The pro forma non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2005 Results Page 3
"Trends in communications and convergence provided a one-two punch that drove Broadcom to record levels of revenue, net income, and cash and marketable securities in 2005," said Scott McGregor, Broadcom's President and Chief Executive Officer. "The continued migration to Gigabit Ethernet in the enterprise, the convergence of voice and Wi-Fi into broadband modems, the adoption of personal video recording and high definition video in cable, satellite and Internet Protocol (IP) set-top boxes, the convergence of video and audio in portable devices, and the adoption of Bluetooth into cell phones, headsets and PCs are just some of the communications and convergence trends occurring in our end markets. Broadcom is delivering solutions that enable these next generation products and networks."
"Our mission is to be the leading communications semiconductor company," Mr. McGregor continued. "The migration of cable, satellite, telephone, cellular, enterprise and even home networks to handle voice, video and data is happening today. These communication and convergence trends are real and literally occurring in our hands with cellular handsets that act as a camera or camcorder, handle email and surf the Internet, and portable media players that are able to play both audio and video. Broadcom combines the depth and breadth of our product line and intellectual property with superior execution to take advantage of these large and growing opportunities."
As previously announced, Broadcom will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its fourth quarter and year 2005 financial results and current financial prospects today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (4:45 p.m. Eastern Time). The company will broadcast the conference call via webcast over the Internet. To listen to the webcast, or to view the financial or other statistical information required by SEC Regulation G, please visit the Investors section of the Broadcom website at . The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time, Thursday, February 9, 2006.
www.broadcom.com/investors
The financial results included in this release are unaudited. The complete, audited financial statements of the company for the year ended December 31, 2005 will be included in Broadcom's Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about February 13, 2006.
Broadcom Corporation is a global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Our products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the
About Broadcom
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2005 Results Page 4
office and the mobile environment. Broadcom provides the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
Broadcom, one of the world's largest fabless semiconductor companies with annual revenue of more than $2.5 billion, is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., and has offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at 1-949-450-8700 or at .
www.broadcom.com
:
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
""""" """"""""" ""
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release and in the related conference call for analysts and investors, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and business, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as
anticipates,"
expects,"
intends,"
plans,"
predicts,"
believes,"
seeks,"
estimates,"
may,"
will,"
should,"
would,"
could,"
potential,"
continue,"
ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
Our future reported GAAP-based results will be negatively affected by the implementation of new accounting rules related to the expensing of stock options, commencing in the first quarter of 2006. Other important factors that may affect Broadcom's business, results of operations and financial condition include, but are not limited to, general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the broadband communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated, and possible disruption in commercial activities related to terrorist activity or armed conflict; our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products and services or demand for new products requested by our customers; intellectual property disputes and customer indemnification claims and other types of litigation risk; the gain or loss of a key customer, design win or order; our dependence on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner; the rate at which our present and future customers and end-users adopt Broadcom's technologies and products in our target markets; delays in the adoption and acceptance of industry standards in those markets; our ability to retain, recruit and hire key executives, technical personnel and other employees in the positions and numbers, with the experience and capabilities, and at the compensation levels needed to implement our business and product plans; the effectiveness of our expense and product cost control and reduction efforts; our ability to timely and accurately predict
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2005 Results Page 5
market requirements and evolving industry standards and to identify opportunities in new markets; the quality of our products and any remediation costs; competitive pressures and other factors such as the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; the availability and pricing of third party semiconductor foundry, assembly and test capacity and raw materials; problems or delays that we may face in shifting our products to smaller geometry process technologies and in achieving higher levels of design integration; the timing of customer-industry qualification and certification of our products and the risks of non-qualification or non-certification; changes in our product or customer mix; the volume of our product sales and pricing concessions on volume sales; fluctuations in the manufacturing yields of our third party semiconductor foundries and other problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products; the risks of producing products with new suppliers and at new fabrication and assembly and test facilities; the risks and uncertainties associated with our international operations, particularly in light of recent events; the effects of natural disasters, public health emergencies, international conflicts and other events beyond our control; the level of orders received that can be shipped in a fiscal quarter; and other factors.
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Wi-Fi is a trademark of the Wi-Fi Alliance. Bluetooth is a trademark of the Bluetooth SIG. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2005 Results Page 6
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2005 Results Page 7
     The following represents a reconciliation (unaudited) of GAAP net income to pro forma non-GAAP net income.
Pro Forma Non-GAAP Adjustments
The above pro forma non-GAAP adjustments are based upon our unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the periods shown. These adjustments are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The pro forma non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. However, Broadcom believes that pro forma non-GAAP reporting, giving effect to the adjustments shown in the above reconciliation, provides meaningful information and therefore uses it to supplement its GAAP reporting and internally in evaluating operations, managing and benchmarking performance, and determining a portion of bonus compensation. Included in the calculation of weighted average shares outstanding used to compute both GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP net income per share are the dilutive effects of shares issued or issuable under Broadcom's stock-based compensation programs. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors, analysts and other interested parties to enable them to perform additional analyses of operating results and to illustrate the results of operations giving effect to the pro forma non-GAAP adjustments shown in the above reconciliation.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2005 Results Page 8
Pro Forma Non-GAAP Statements
The above pro forma non-GAAP statements are based upon our unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the periods shown, giving effect to the adjustments shown in the attached reconciliation. This presentation is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The pro forma non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. However, Broadcom believes that pro forma non-GAAP reporting, giving effect to the adjustments shown in the attached reconciliation, provides meaningful information and therefore uses it to supplement its GAAP reporting and internally in evaluating operations, managing and benchmarking performance, and determining a portion of bonus compensation. Included in the calculation of weighted average shares outstanding used to compute both GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP net income per share are the dilutive effects of shares issued or issuable under Broadcom's stock-based compensation programs. Broadcom has chosen to provide this supplemental information to investors, analysts and other interested parties to enable them to perform additional analyses of operating results and to illustrate the results of operations giving effect to the pro forma non-GAAP adjustments shown in the attached reconciliation.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2005 Results Page 9
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2005 Results Page 10


