FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20060809215936.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01 Other Events.
As previously announced, on May 18, 2006 Broadcom Corporation commenced a voluntary review of our equity award practices. The review covers option grants and other equity awards since our initial public offering in 1998. At this time, the review has not been completed and is ongoing, and no final conclusions have been reached.
Although the review is ongoing, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has preliminarily concluded that we will have to restate our financial statements for each of the years ended December 31, 2000 through December 31, 2005 as well as for the first quarter of 2006.
Because our equity award review and the audit of the results of that review by Ernst & Young LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm have not been completed, we were not be able to file a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended June 30, 2006 (the "Second Quarter 10-Q") with the Securities and Exchange Commission in a timely manner. Consequently, on August 9, 2006 we filed a Notification of Late Filing on Form 12b-25 with the SEC.
We plan to file our Second Quarter 10-Q after we have concluded the equity award review, finalized restated financial statements for prior periods, and filed amended Reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q with the SEC for the periods ended December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2006, respectively.
In the interim, we have chosen to provide the following information that would have ordinarily been contained in the Second Quarter 10-Q. For the sake of convenience, references in this Report to specific item numbers correspond to the items normally found in Part II of the Form 10-Q.
Cautionary Statement
     
The information contained in this Current Report on
Form 8-K
is not a complete description of our business or the risks associated with an investment in our common stock. In addition, this Report contains only partial and incomplete information about our equity award review, which remains ongoing. Until that review is completed, we will not be able to precisely assess the extent and timing of the various adjustments that will be required as a result of the review; however, we currently believe that the aggregate non-cash adjustments for several of the affected reporting periods are likely to be substantial. Accordingly, pending completion of our restatements you should not rely on our financial statements and the related reports of Ernst & Young LLP, or any earnings press releases or similar communications issued by Broadcom, relating to periods after 1999.
     ,
This Report does not contain all of the information that would usually be found in a Form 10-Q. You should note that because we were not able to timely file our Second Quarter 10-Q
any decision you make to purchase, hold or sell our common stock will not be based on complete, current information about us. In particular, we have not yet been able to provide the financial information for the second quarter of 2006 contained in Part I of Form 10-Q or comparisons of that information with prior periods.
     
The section entitled "Risk Factors" set forth below, and similar discussions in our other SEC filings, describe some of the important risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully consider those risks, in addition to the other information in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock.
     
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this Report, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements
Table of Contents
include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our equity award review and the potential consequences that may result from that review; the impact of new accounting rules related to the expensing of stock options on our future reported results; our success in pending litigation; the demand for our products; the effect that seasonality and volume fluctuations in the demand for our customers' consumer-oriented products will have on our quarterly operating results; our dependence on a few key customers for a substantial portion of our revenue; our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for existing products and services or the demand for new products requested by our customers; the competitive nature of and anticipated growth in our markets; our ability to migrate to smaller process geometries; manufacturing, assembly and test capacity; our ability to consummate acquisitions and integrate their operations successfully; our potential needs for additional capital; inventory and accounts receivable levels; and the level of accrued rebates. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and business, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, some of which are listed under the section "Risk Factors" contained in Item 1A of this Report. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason, except as otherwise required by law.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
     
Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described in our other filings with the SEC, including our Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2005 and subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K*. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on Broadcom, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our Class A common stock will likely decline and you may lose all or part of your investment.
Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. As a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline.
     Our quarterly net revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our Class A common stock will likely decline.* Fluctuations in our operating results may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this "Risk Factors" section:
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
     We expect new product lines to continue to account for a high percentage of our future sales. Some of these markets are immature and/or unpredictable or are new markets for Broadcom, and we cannot assure you that these markets will develop into significant opportunities or that we will continue to derive significant revenue from these markets. Based on the limited amount of historical data available to us, it is difficult to anticipate our future revenue streams from, and the sustainability of, such newer markets.
     Additionally, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, such as desktop and notebook computers, cellular phones and other mobile communication devices, other wireless-enabled consumer electronics, and satellite and digital cable set-top boxes, we anticipate greater seasonality and fluctuations in the demand for our products, which may result in greater variations in our quarterly operating results.
Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the cyclical nature of and volatility in the semiconductor industry. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock may decline.
     We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories, and accelerated erosion of prices. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our revenue and in our results of operations. Any downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of the industry or wired and wireless communications markets to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our operating results may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause large fluctuations in our stock price.
     Additionally, in the last four years, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in the wired and wireless communications markets, the ongoing effects of the war in Iraq, recent international conflicts and terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. We have experienced a slowdown in orders in the current quarter of 2006 as well as a reduction in net revenue in the fourth quarter of 2004 that we believe were attributable in substantial part to excess inventory held by certain of our customers, and we may experience a similar slowdown in the future. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic recovery, worldwide, or in the wired and wireless communications markets. If the economy or the wired and wireless communications markets in which we operate do not continue at their present levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected.
Table of Contents
Our operating results for certain prior periods will be materially and adversely impacted by the results of the ongoing voluntary review of our past equity award practices. We will not be able to accurately quantify the magnitude of the additional stock-based compensation expense that we will need to record for those periods or assess any additional potential consequences to Broadcom until the review is concluded.
In connection with our previously announced equity award review, we expect to restate our financial statements for each of the years ended December 31, 2000 through December 31, 2005 as well as for the first quarter of 2006. Accordingly, pending completion of the restatements, you should not rely on our financial statements and the related reports of Ernst & Young, and all earnings press releases and similar communications issued by Broadcom, relating to periods after 1999. Although we are not yet in a position to quantify the expected adjustments, we expect the additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense that we will record for the periods in question to be substantial. These expenses will have the effect of decreasing income from operations, net income, and net income per share (basic and diluted) in periods in which we reported a profit, and increasing loss from operations, net loss, and net loss per share in periods in which we reported a loss.
In June 2006 we received an informal request for information from the staff of the Los Angeles regional office of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our option granting practices. We are cooperating with the SEC inquiry, but do not know when the inquiry will be resolved or what, if any, actions the SEC may require us to take as part of that resolution.
Because the equity award review has not been completed, it is possible that additional issues may be identified and additional adjustments may be required for one or more of the periods under review (1998 to present). In that event, the amount and timing of additional stock-based compensation expense and other additional expenses that we expect to record in connection with affected option grants could change. In addition, the anticipated accounting adjustments and other factors described above could have negative tax or other implications for the company. The review may also involve an assessment of our current internal controls as related to equity awards.
As a result of the ongoing review, Broadcom was not able to file a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended June 30, 2006 with the SEC on a timely basis. Accordingly, any decision you make to purchase, hold or sell our common stock will not be based on complete, current information about us. In particular, we have not yet been able to provide financial information for the second quarter of 2006 contained in Part I of Form 10-Q or comparisons of that information with prior periods.
Timely filing of periodic reports with the SEC is a requirement for continued listing of our shares on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. Accordingly, we expect to receive a notice from NASDAQ regarding the possible delisting of our shares. Although we intend to appeal the notice, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in those efforts.
Additionally, as discussed below, we currently are engaged in litigation with parties that claim, among other allegations, that certain of our current and former officers improperly dated stock option grants to enhance their own profits on the exercise of such options. Although we intend to defend these claims vigorously, the litigation could result in significant costs and a diversion of the attention of management and other key employees to defend.
We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and if we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margin, or, conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potentially in loss of market share and damaged customer relationships.
     We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. In the recent past, some of our customers have developed excess inventories of their own products and have, as
Table of Contents
a consequence, deferred purchase orders for our products. We currently do not have the ability to accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face volatile pricing and unpredictable demand for their own products, are increasingly focused more on cash preservation and tighter inventory management, and may be involved in legal proceedings that could affect their ability to buy our products. In addition, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, we anticipate greater fluctuations in demand for our products, which makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to, if at all. As a result, we would hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would forego revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. Furthermore, we generally recognize revenue upon shipment of products to a customer. If a customer refuses to accept shipped products or does not timely pay for these products, we could incur significant charges against our income. We have also recently entered into consigned or customer managed inventory arrangements with certain of our customers, although we have not shipped a significant amount of product under those arrangements as of June 30, 2006. Pursuant to these arrangements we deliver products to a warehouse of the customer or a designated third party based upon the customer's projected needs, but do not recognize product revenue unless and until the customer reports that it has removed our product from the warehouse to incorporate into its end products. If a customer does not take product under such an arrangement in accordance with the schedule it originally provided us, our predicted future revenue stream could vary substantially from our forecasts and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
Intellectual property risks and third party claims of infringement, misappropriation of proprietary rights or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties, and seriously harm our operating results. In addition, the defense of such claims could result in significant costs and divert the attention of our management or other key employees.
     Companies in and related to the semiconductor industry often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. There are often intellectual property risks associated with developing and producing new products and entering new markets, and we may not be able to obtain, at reasonable cost and upon commercially reasonable terms, licenses to intellectual property of others that is alleged to read on such new or existing products. From time to time, we have received, and may continue to receive, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties' proprietary rights. Moreover, in the past we have been and we currently are engaged in litigation with parties that claim that we infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets. In addition, we or our customers may be sued by other parties that claim that our products have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets, or which may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. An adverse determination in any of these types of disputes could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products, limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for Broadcom, increase our costs of revenue and expose us to significant liability. Any of these claims may materially and adversely affect our business, financial
Table of Contents
condition and results of operations. For example, in a patent or trade secret action, a court could issue a preliminary or permanent injunction that would require us to withdraw or recall certain products from the market, redesign certain products offered for sale or under development, or restrict employees from performing work in their areas of expertise. We may also be liable for damages for past infringement and royalties for future use of the technology, and we may be liable for treble damages if infringement is found to have been willful. In addition, governmental agencies may commence investigations or criminal proceedings against our employees, former employees and/or the company relating to claims of misappropriation or misuse of another party's proprietary rights. We may also have to indemnify some customers and strategic partners under our agreements with such parties if a third party alleges or if a court finds that our products or activities have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another party's proprietary rights. We have received requests from certain customers and strategic partners to include increasingly broad indemnification provisions in our agreements with them. These indemnification provisions may, in some circumstances, extend our liability beyond the products we provide to include liability for combinations of components or system level designs and for consequential damages and/or lost profits. Even if claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and a diversion of the attention of management and other key employees to defend. Additionally, we have sought and may in the future seek to obtain a license under a third party's intellectual property rights and have granted and may in the future grant a license to certain of our intellectual property rights to a third party in connection with a cross-license agreement or a settlement of claims or actions asserted against us. However, we may not be able to obtain such a license on commercially reasonable terms.
     Our products may contain technology provided to us by other parties such as contractors, suppliers or customers. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Our contractors, suppliers and licensors may not be required to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages.
We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could harm our competitive position.
     Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes. We hold more than 1,600 U.S. patents and have filed more than 3,600 additional U.S. patent applications. However, we cannot assure you that any additional patents will be issued. Even if a new patent is issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection. We may not have foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and patent applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Some or all of our patents have in the past been licensed and likely will in the future be licensed to certain of our competitors through cross-license agreements. Moreover, because we have participated in developing various industry standards, we may be required to license some of our patents to others, including competitors, who develop products based on those standards.
Table of Contents
     Certain of our software (as well as that of our customers) may be derived from so-called "open source" software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Such open source software is often made available to us under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License, or GPL, which impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license customarily used to protect our intellectual property. In addition, there is little or no legal precedent for interpreting the terms of certain of these open source licenses, including the determination of which works are subject to the terms of such licenses. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work. With respect to our proprietary software, we generally license such software under terms that prohibit combining it with open source software as described above. Despite these restrictions, parties may combine Broadcom proprietary software with open source software without our authorization, in which case we might nonetheless be required to release the source code of our proprietary software.
     We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. Also, current or former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Additionally, current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to penetrate our computer systems and networks to misappropriate our proprietary information and technology or interrupt our business. Because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate these techniques. As a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated, particularly in countries where laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States.
     In addition, some of our customers have entered into agreements with us that grant them the right to use our proprietary technology if we fail to fulfill our obligations, including product supply obligations, under those agreements, and if we do not correct the failure within a specified time period. Moreover, we often incorporate the intellectual property of strategic customers into our own designs, and have certain obligations not to use or disclose their intellectual property without their authorization.
     We cannot assure you that our efforts to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will succeed. We have in the past been and currently are engaged in litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, including our customers. Such litigation (and the settlement thereof) has been and will likely continue to be very expensive and time consuming. Additionally, any litigation can divert the attention of management and other key employees from the operation of the business, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations.
Table of Contents
The implementation of new accounting rules related to the expensing of stock-based awards will negatively impact our operating results in periods beginning with the first quarter of 2006. Any subsequent changes in accounting rules may also have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
     Effective January 1, 2006 we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123 (revised 2004), , SFAS 123R requires all share-based payment awards to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in our financial statements based on their grant date fair values and does not allow the previously permitted pro forma disclosure-only method as an alternative to financial statement recognition.
Share-Based Payment
     The adoption of SFAS 123R will have a significant adverse impact on our reported results of operations because the stock-based compensation expense is charged directly against our reported earnings. Stock-based compensation expense and unearned stock-based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions.
     Any other subsequent changes in the accounting rules applicable to Broadcom may also have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
If we fail to appropriately scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products and services or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, our business could be materially and adversely affected.
     To achieve our business objectives, we anticipate that we will need to continue to expand. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion in the past. Through internal growth and acquisitions, we significantly increased the scope of our operations and expanded our workforce from 2,580 employees, including contractors, as of December 31, 2002 to 4,854 employees, including contractors, as of June 30, 2006. Nonetheless, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products and services or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. In that event, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected.
     Conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expect, the rate of increase in our operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase, if any, in our revenue. Moreover, if we experience another slowdown in the broadband communications markets in which we operate, we may not be able to scale back our operating expenses in a sufficiently timely or effective manner. In that event, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.
     Our past growth has placed, and any future growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort. In the past we have implemented an enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system to help us improve our planning and management processes and a new human resources management, or HRM, system. More recently we have implemented a new equity administration system to support our more complex equity programs as well as the adoption of SFAS 123R. We anticipate that we will also need to continue to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, as well as additional procedures and other internal management systems. In general, the accuracy of information delivered by these systems may be subject to inherent programming quality. In addition, to support our growth we recently signed a $183.0 million lease agreement under which we will relocate our headquarters and Irvine operations to new, larger facilities that will enable us to centralize all of our Irvine employees and operations on one campus. This
Table of Contents
relocation is currently anticipated to occur in the first quarter of 2007. We may also engage in other relocations of our employees or operations from time to time. Such relocations could result in temporary disruptions of our operations or a diversion of our management's attention and resources. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our current or future business.
Because we depend on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of a key customer could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or to attract new significant customers, our future operating results could be adversely affected.
     We have derived a substantial portion of our past revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
     Sales to our five largest customers, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, represented approximately 45.9% and 50.5% of our net revenue in the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue during the balance of 2006 and for the foreseeable future. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period.
     We may not be able to maintain or increase sales to certain of our key customers for a variety of reasons, including the following:
     In addition, our longstanding relationships with some larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. We may have to offer the same lower prices to certain of our customers who have contractual "most favored nation" pricing arrangements. In that event, our average selling prices and gross margins would decline. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any key customer, or our inability to attract new significant customers could seriously impact our revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations.
Table of Contents
We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.
     To remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products as well as standard cells and other integrated circuit designs that we may use in multiple products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. Currently most of our products are manufactured in .25 micron, .22 micron, .18 micron, .13 micron and 90 nanometer geometry processes. In addition, we are now designing a number of new products in 65-nanometer process technology. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that the foundries that we use will be able to effectively manage the transition in a timely manner, or at all, or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If any of our foundry subcontractors or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our operating results, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip.
We may be unable to attract, retain or motivate key senior management and technical personnel, which could seriously harm our business.
     Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key senior management personnel, including our co-founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Technical Officer, Henry Samueli, Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer, Scott A. McGregor, and other senior executives. We do not have employment agreements with these executives, or any other key employees, that govern the length of their service, although we do have limited retention arrangements in place with certain executives. The loss of the services of Dr. Samueli, Mr. McGregor or certain other key senior management or technical personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For instance, if any of these individuals were to leave our company unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity during the search for and while any such successor is integrated into our business and operations.
     Furthermore, our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate senior management and qualified technical personnel, particularly software engineers, digital circuit designers, RF and mixed-signal circuit designers and systems applications engineers. Competition for these employees is intense. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate such personnel in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis, we
Table of Contents
will experience difficulty in implementing our current business and product plans. In that event, we may be unable to successfully meet competitive challenges or to exploit potential market opportunities, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
     Equity awards generally comprise a significant portion of our compensation packages for all employees. In April and May 2003 we conducted a stock option exchange offer to address the substantial decline in the price of our Class A common stock over the preceding two years and to improve our ability to retain key employees. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to attract, retain and motivate employees if our Class A common stock experiences another substantial price decline.
     We have also modified our compensation policies by increasing cash compensation to certain employees and instituting awards of restricted stock units, while simultaneously reducing awards of stock options. This modification of our compensation policies and the applicability of the SFAS 123R requirement to expense the fair value of stock options awarded to employees will increase our operating expenses. We cannot be certain that the changes in our compensation policies will improve our ability to attract, retain and motivate employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees and the increase in stock-based compensation expense could each have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If we are unable to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner or to achieve market acceptance of our new products, our operating results would be adversely affected.
     Our future success is dependent upon our ability to develop new semiconductor solutions for existing and new markets, introduce these products in a cost-effective and timely manner, and convince leading equipment manufacturers to select these products for design into their own new products. Our historical results have been, and we expect that our future results will continue to be, dependent on the introduction of a relatively small number of new products and the timely completion and delivery of those products to customers.* The development of new silicon devices is highly complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and lower than anticipated manufacturing yields in the early production of such products. If we were to experience any similar delays in the successful completion of a new product or similar reductions in our manufacturing yields for a new product in the future, our customer relationships, reputation and business could be seriously harmed.
     Our ability to develop and deliver new products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to:
Table of Contents
In some of our businesses, our ability to develop and deliver next-generation products successfully and in a timely manner may depend in part on access to information, or licenses of technology or intellectual property rights, from companies that are our competitors. We cannot assure you that such information or licenses will be made available to us on a timely basis, if at all, or at reasonable cost and on commercially reasonable terms.
     If we are not able to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner, we will be unable to attract new customers or to retain our existing customers, as these customers may transition to other companies that can meet their product development needs, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations.
We must keep pace with rapid technological change and evolving industry standards in the semiconductor industry and wired and wireless communications markets to remain competitive.
     Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards and our customers' changing demands. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. Our past sales and profitability have resulted, to a large extent, from our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products incorporating the new standards and technologies. Our ability to adapt to these changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. If new industry standards emerge, our products or our customers' products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. In addition, our target markets continue to undergo rapid growth and consolidation. A significant slowdown in any of these wired and wireless communications markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards make it difficult to formulate a long-term growth strategy because the semiconductor industry and wired and wireless communications markets may not continue to develop to the extent or in the time periods that we anticipate. We have invested substantial resources in emerging technologies that did not achieve the market acceptance that we had expected. If new markets do not
Table of Contents
develop as we anticipate, or if our products do not gain widespread acceptance in these markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
Sales of our products largely depend on whether customers choose to design our products into their product offerings and whether our customers' product offerings are commercially successful.
     Our products are generally incorporated into our customers' products at the design stage. As a result, we rely on equipment manufacturers to select our products to be designed into their products. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that an equipment manufacturer will select our product for design into its own product. Additionally, in some instances, we are dependent on third parties to obtain or provide information that we need to achieve a design win. Some of these third parties may be our competitors and, accordingly, may not supply this information to us on a timely basis, if at all. Once an equipment manufacturer designs a competitor's product into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer.
     Even if an equipment manufacturer designs one of our products into its product offering, we have no assurances that its product will be commercially successful or that we will receive any revenue from that product. Sales of our products largely depend on the commercial success of our customers' products. Our customers are typically not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if their own products are not commercially successful or for any other reason. We cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve design wins or that our customers' equipment incorporating our products will ever be commercially successful.
Our future success depends in significant part on strategic relationships with certain customers. If we cannot maintain these relationships or if these customers develop their own solutions or adopt a competitor's solutions instead of buying our products, our operating results would be adversely affected.
     In the past, we have relied in significant part on our strategic relationships with customers that are technology leaders in our target markets. We intend to pursue the formation of these strategic relationships but we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. These relationships often require us to develop new products that may involve significant technological challenges. Our customers frequently place considerable pressure on us to meet their tight development schedules. Accordingly, we may have to devote a substantial amount of our resources to our strategic relationships, which could detract from or delay our completion of other important development projects. Delays in development could impair our relationships with our strategic customers and negatively impact sales of the products under development. Moreover, it is possible that our customers may develop their own solutions or adopt a competitor's solution for products that they currently buy from us. If that happens, our sales would decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
If our internal controls over financial reporting do not comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business and stock price could be adversely affected.
     Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. Section 404 also requires our
Table of Contents
independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management's assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting.
     Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. In addition, over time controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
     We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price.
The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses and in undetected defects or bugs, which could damage our reputation with current or prospective customers, result in significant costs and claims, and adversely affect the market acceptance of new products.
     Highly complex products such as the products that we offer frequently contain defects and bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. Our products have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, these defects and bugs. If any of our products contains defects or bugs, or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales or shipment of our products to our customers. To alleviate these problems, we may have to invest significant capital and other resources. Although our products are tested by us and our suppliers and customers, it is possible that our new products will contain defects or bugs. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recall, repair or field replacement costs. These problems may divert our technical and other resources from other development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including possible claims for consequential damages and/or lost profits. In addition, system and handset providers that purchase components may require that we assume liability for defects associated with products produced by their manufacturing subcontractors and require that we provide a warranty for defects or other problems which may arise at the system level. Moreover, we would likely lose, or experience a delay in, market acceptance of the affected product or products, and we could lose credibility with our current and prospective customers.
Table of Contents
Our acquisition strategy may be dilutive to existing shareholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, and result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses.
     A key element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. Between January 1, 1999 and June 30, 2006, we acquired 33 companies and certain assets of one other business. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships, and the purchase or sale of assets, including tangible and intangible assets such as intellectual property.
     Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks, and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We have in the past and may in the future experience delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired company's technologies and product development through volume production, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Furthermore, these challenges would be even greater if we acquired a business or entered into a business combination transaction with a company that was larger and more difficult to integrate than the companies we have historically acquired.
     Acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, deferred compensation charges, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we may record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any of these charges could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline.
     Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves. We may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities. Any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. For example, as a consequence of the prior pooling-of-interests accounting rules, the securities issued in nine of our prior acquisitions were shares of Class B common stock, which have voting rights superior to our publicly traded Class A common stock.
     We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any pending or future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from these acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our Class A common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions.
Table of Contents
As our international business expands, we are increasingly exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with our international operations.
     We currently obtain substantially all of our manufacturing, assembly and testing services from suppliers located outside the United States. In addition, 29.4% and 29.6% of our net revenue in the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively, was derived from sales to independent customers outside the United States, excluding foreign subsidiaries or manufacturing subcontractors of customers that are headquartered in the United States. We also frequently ship products to our domestic customers' international manufacturing divisions and subcontractors. Products shipped to international destinations, primarily in Asia, represented 87.3% and 87.4% of our net revenue in the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively. We also undertake design and development activities in Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Greece, India, Israel, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Taiwan and the United Kingdom, among other locations. In addition, we undertake various sales and marketing activities through regional offices in a number of countries. We intend to continue to expand our international business activities and to open other design and operational centers abroad. The continuing effects of the war in Iraq and terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad, the resulting heightened security and the increasing risk of extended international military conflicts may adversely impact our international sales and could make our international operations more expensive. International operations are subject to many other inherent risks, including but not limited to:
Table of Contents
     Any of the factors described above may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales.
     We currently operate under tax holidays and favorable tax incentives in certain foreign jurisdictions. For instance, in Singapore we operate under tax holidays that reduce our taxes in that country on certain non-investment income. Such tax holidays and incentives often require us to meet specified employment and investment criteria in such jurisdictions. However, we cannot assure you that we will continue to meet such criteria or enjoy such tax holidays and incentives, or realize any net tax benefits from such tax holidays or incentives. If any of our tax holidays or incentives are terminated, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.
     The economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in Asia, may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. All of our international sales to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. We anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities.
We face intense competition in the semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets, which could reduce our market share in existing markets and affect our entry into new markets.
     The semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets are intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue to increase as industry standards become well known and as other competitors enter our target markets. We currently compete with a number of major domestic and international suppliers of integrated circuits and related applications in our target markets. We also compete with suppliers of system-level and motherboard-level solutions incorporating integrated circuits that are proprietary or sourced from manufacturers other than Broadcom. In all of our target markets we also may face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies, and customers who choose to develop their own semiconductor solutions. We also expect to encounter further consolidation in the markets in which we compete.
     Many of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Existing or new competitors may also develop technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that
Table of Contents
offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. Increased competition has resulted in and is likely to continue to result in declining average selling prices, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in certain markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against current or new competitors. If we do not compete successfully, we may lose market share in our existing markets and our revenues may fail to increase or may decline.
We depend on five independent foundry subcontractors to manufacture substantially all of our current products, and any failure to secure and maintain sufficient foundry capacity could materially and adversely affect our business.
     We do not own or operate a fabrication facility. Five third-party foundry subcontractors located in Asia manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor devices in current production. Availability of foundry capacity has at times in the past been reduced due to strong demand. In addition, a recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or the occurrence of a significant outbreak of avian influenza among humans or another public health emergency in Asia could further affect the production capabilities of our manufacturers by resulting in quarantines or closures. If we are unable to secure sufficient capacity at our existing foundries, or in the event of a quarantine or closure at any of these foundries, our revenues, cost of revenues and results of operations would be negatively impacted.
     In September 1999 two of our foundries' principal facilities were affected by a significant earthquake in Taiwan. As a consequence of this earthquake, they suffered power outages and equipment damage that impaired their wafer deliveries, which, together with strong demand, resulted in wafer shortages and higher wafer pricing industrywide. If any of our foundries experiences a shortage in capacity, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages, suffers an adverse outcome in pending or future litigation, or encounters financial difficulties or any other disruption of foundry capacity, we may need to qualify an alternative foundry. Even our current foundries need to have new manufacturing processes qualified if there is a disruption in an existing process. We typically require several months to qualify a new foundry or process before we can begin shipping products from it. If we cannot accomplish this qualification in a timely manner, we may experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products.
     Because we rely on outside foundries with limited capacity, we face several significant risks, including:
     In addition, the manufacture of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technologically demanding process. Although we work closely with our foundries to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, our foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start-up of new process technologies. Poor yields from our foundries could result in product shortages or delays in product shipments, which could seriously harm our relationships with our customers and materially and adversely affect our results of operations.
Table of Contents
     The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. Although we have entered into contractual commitments to supply specified levels of products to some of our customers, we do not have a long-term volume purchase agreement or a significant guaranteed level of production capacity with any of our foundries. Foundry capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. Availability of foundry capacity has in the recent past been reduced from time to time due to strong demand. Foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies' products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are, or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries, may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to them. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. Although we use five independent foundries to manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor products, each component is typically manufactured at only one or two foundries at any given time, and if any of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. Also, our third party foundries typically migrate capacity to newer, state-of-the-art manufacturing processes on a regular basis, which may create capacity shortages for our products designed to be manufactured on an older process. We cannot assure you that any of our existing or new foundries will be able to produce integrated circuits with acceptable manufacturing yields, or that our foundries will be able to deliver enough semiconductor devices to us on a timely basis, or at reasonable prices. These and other related factors could impair our ability to meet our customers' needs and have a material and adverse effect on our operating results.
     Although we may utilize new foundries for other products in the future, in using new foundries we will be subject to all of the risks described in the foregoing paragraphs with respect to our current foundries.
We depend on third-party subcontractors to assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test substantially all of our current products. If we lose the services of any of our subcontractors or if these subcontractors are unable to obtain sufficient packaging materials, shipments of our products may be disrupted, which could harm our customer relationships and adversely affect our net sales.
     We do not own or operate an assembly or test facility. Seven third-party subcontractors located in Asia assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test substantially all of our current products. Because we rely on third-party subcontractors to perform these functions, we cannot directly control our product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control has resulted, and could in the future result, in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments of our products or increase our manufacturing, assembly or testing costs.
     In the past we and others in our industry experienced a shortage in the supply of packaging substrates that we use for our products. If our third-party subcontractors are unable to obtain sufficient packaging materials for our products in a timely manner, we may experience a significant product shortage or delay in product shipments, which could seriously harm our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our net sales.
     We do not have long-term agreements with any of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. If any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. Due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or
Table of Contents
testers for our components. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are continuing to develop relationships with additional third-party subcontractors to assemble and test our products. However, even if we use these new subcontractors, we will continue to be subject to all of the risks described above.
Our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. A customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to lose anticipated sales. In addition, our average product life cycles tend to be short and, as a result, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory that could adversely affect our operating results.
     After we have developed and delivered a product to a customer, the customer will usually test and evaluate our product prior to designing its own equipment to incorporate our product. Our customers may need three to more than six months to test, evaluate and adopt our product and an additional three to more than nine months to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our product. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we increase our operating expenses and make investments in inventory until the time that we generate revenue from these products. It is possible that we may never generate any revenue from these products after incurring such expenditures. Even if a customer selects our product to incorporate into its equipment, we have no assurances that the customer will ultimately market and sell its equipment or that such efforts by our customer will be successful. The delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle also increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or curtail, reduce or delay its product plans. Such a cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause us to lose sales that we had anticipated.
     While our sales cycles are typically long, our average product life cycles tend to be short as a result of the rapidly changing technology environment in which we operate. As a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not generate material revenue for us, and from time to time, we may need to write off excess and obsolete inventory. If we incur significant marketing expenses and investments in inventory in the future that we are not able to recover, and we are not able to compensate for those expenses, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, if we sell our products at reduced prices in anticipation of cost reductions but still hold higher cost products in inventory, our operating results would be harmed.
Our stock price is highly volatile. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them.
     The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Since January 1, 2002 our Class A common stock has traded at prices as low as $6.35 and as high as $50.00 per share. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control, including:
Table of Contents
     In addition, the market prices of securities of Internet-related, semiconductor and other technology companies have been volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. In the past, we and other companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been, and in the future we may be, the subject of securities class action litigation.
The independent foundries upon which we rely to manufacture substantially all of our current products, as well as and our California and Singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters.
     Two of the five third-party foundries upon which we rely to manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor devices are located in Taiwan. Taiwan has experienced significant earthquakes in the past and could be subject to additional earthquakes. Any earthquake or other natural disaster, such as a tsunami, in a country in which any of our foundries is located could significantly disrupt our foundries' production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of wafers and possibly in higher wafer prices.
     Our California facilities, including our principal executive offices and major design centers, are located near major earthquake fault lines. Our international distribution center is located in Singapore, which could also be subject to an earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster. If there is a major earthquake or any other natural disaster in a region where one or more of our facilities are located, our operations could be significantly disrupted. Although we have established business interruption plans to prepare for any such event, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to effectively address all interruptions that such an event could cause.
Table of Contents
Changes in current or future laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations by federal or state agencies or foreign governments could impede the sale of our products or otherwise harm our business.
     Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere could materially and adversely affect our business.
     The effects of regulation on our customers or the industries in which they operate may materially and adversely impact our business. For example, the Federal Communications Commission has broad jurisdiction over each of our target markets in the United States. Although current FCC regulations and the laws and regulations of other federal or state agencies are not directly applicable to our products, they do apply to much of the equipment into which our products are incorporated. FCC regulatory policies that affect the ability of cable or satellite operators or telephone companies to offer certain services to their customers or other aspects of their business may impede sales of our products in the United States. For example, in the past we have experienced delays when products incorporating our chips failed to comply with FCC emissions specifications.
     In addition, we and our customers are subject to various import and export regulations of the United States government. These regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, various government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. We have made numerous filings and applied for and received a number of export licenses under these regulations. However, if we fail to continue to receive licenses or otherwise comply with these regulations, we may be unable to manufacture the affected products at our foreign foundries or to ship these products to certain customers located outside of the United States.
     We and our customers may also be subject to regulation by countries other than the United States. Foreign governments may impose tariffs, duties and other import restrictions on components that we obtain from non-domestic suppliers and may impose export restrictions on products that we sell internationally. These tariffs, duties or restrictions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
     Due to environmental concerns, the use of lead and other hazardous substances in electronic components and systems is receiving increased attention. In response, the European Union passed the Restriction on Hazardous Substances ("RoHS") Directive, legislation that limits the use of lead and other hazardous substances in electrical equipment. The RoHS Directive became effective July 1, 2006. We believe that, absent any unforeseen delays, our current product designs and material supply chains will allow production to continue in compliance with the RoHS Directive and without interruption. However, it is possible that unanticipated supply shortages or delays may occur as a result of these new regulations.
Our co-founders, directors, executive officers and their affiliates can control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders, and accordingly we will not be able to engage in certain transactions without their approval.
     As of June 30, 2006 our co-founders, directors, executive officers and their respective affiliates beneficially owned 14.3% of our outstanding common stock and held 60.3% of the total voting power held by our shareholders. Accordingly, these shareholders currently have enough voting power to control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders. These matters include the election of our Board of
Table of Contents
Directors, the issuance of additional shares of Class B common stock, and the approval of most significant corporate transactions, including certain mergers and consolidations and the sale of substantially all of our assets. In particular, as of June 30, 2006 our two founders, Dr. Henry T. Nicholas III, who is no longer an officer or director of Broadcom, and Dr. Henry Samueli, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Technical Officer, beneficially owned a total of 13.4% of our outstanding common stock and held 59.4% of the total voting power held by our shareholders. Because of their significant voting stock ownership, we will not be able to engage in certain transactions, and our shareholders will not be able to effect certain actions or transactions, without the approval of one or both of these shareholders. These actions and transactions include changes in the composition of our Board of Directors, certain mergers, and the sale of control of our company by means of a tender offer, open market purchases or other purchases of our Class A common stock, or otherwise. Repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock under our share repurchase program will result in an increase in the total voting power of our co-founders, directors, executive officers and their affiliates, as well as other continuing shareholders.
Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us.
     Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, we have in the past issued and may in the future issue shares of Class B common stock in connection with certain acquisitions, upon exercise of certain stock options, and for other purposes. Class B shares have superior voting rights entitling the holder to ten votes for each share held on matters that we submit to a shareholder vote (as compared to one vote per share in the case of our Class A common stock) as well as the right to vote separately as a class (i) as required by law and (ii) in the case of a proposed issuance of additional shares of Class B common stock, unless such issuance is approved by at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Directors then in office. Our Board of Directors also has the authority to fix the rights and preferences of shares of our preferred stock and to issue shares of common or preferred stock without a shareholder vote. It is possible that the provisions in our charter documents, the exercise of supervoting rights by holders of our Class B common stock, our co-founders', directors' and officers' ownership of a majority of the Class B common stock, or the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock or additional shares of Class B common stock may prevent or discourage third parties from acquiring us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, these factors may discourage third parties from bidding for our Class A common stock at a premium over the market price for our stock. These factors may also materially and adversely affect voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock and the market price of our Class A common stock.
 
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
     In May 2005 Broadcom filed a complaint in the U.S. International Trade Commission ("ITC") asserting that Qualcomm Incorporated ("Qualcomm") has engaged in unfair trade practices by importing integrated circuits and other products that infringe, both directly and indirectly, five of our patents relating generally to wired and wireless communications. The complaint seeks an exclusion order to bar importation of those Qualcomm products into the United States and a cease and desist order to bar further sales of infringing Qualcomm products that have already been imported. In June 2005 the ITC instituted an investigation of Qualcomm based upon the allegations made in our complaint. The investigation was later limited to asserted infringement of three Broadcom patents. The hearing on the liability portion of the case concluded in March 2006. In February 2006 the administrative law judge granted the motions of various third parties to intervene to contest the application of any exclusion order to downstream
Intellectual Property Proceedings.
Table of Contents
products. The hearing on the remedy portion of the case concluded in July 2006. An Initial Determination is expected in August 2006.
     In May 2005 Broadcom filed two complaints against Qualcomm in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The first complaint asserts that Qualcomm has infringed, both directly and indirectly, the same five patents asserted by us in the ITC complaint. The District Court complaint seeks preliminary and permanent injunctions against Qualcomm and the recovery of monetary damages, including treble damages for willful infringement, and attorneys' fees. In July 2005 Qualcomm answered the complaint and asserted counterclaims seeking a declaratory judgment that Broadcom's patents are invalid and not infringed. In December 2005 the court transferred the causes of action relating to two of the patents to the United States District Court for the Southern District of California. Pursuant to statute, the court has stayed the remainder of this action pending the outcome of the ITC action.
     The second District Court complaint asserts that Qualcomm has infringed, both directly and indirectly, five other Broadcom patents relating generally to wired and wireless communications and multimedia processing technologies. The complaint seeks preliminary and permanent injunctions against Qualcomm and the recovery of monetary damages, including treble damages for willful infringement, and attorneys' fees. In July 2005 Qualcomm answered the second complaint and asserted counterclaims seeking a declaratory judgment that our patents are invalid and not infringed. The court denied Qualcomm's motion to stay the second action pending the outcome of the ITC action, and discovery is now proceeding. The court completed a claims construction hearing in July 2006. Trial has been set for February 2007.
     In July 2005 Qualcomm filed a complaint against Broadcom in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California alleging that certain of our products infringe, both directly and indirectly, seven Qualcomm patents relating generally to the transmission, reception and processing of communication signals, including radio signals and/or signals for wireless telephony. The complaint seeks a preliminary and permanent injunction against Broadcom as well as the recovery of monetary damages and attorneys' fees. We filed an answer in September 2005 denying the allegations in Qualcomm's complaint and asserting counterclaims. The counterclaims seek a declaratory judgment that the seven Qualcomm patents are invalid and not infringed, and assert that Qualcomm has infringed, both directly and indirectly, six of our patents relating generally to wired and wireless communications. The counterclaims seek preliminary and permanent injunctions against Qualcomm and the recovery of monetary damages, including treble damages for willful infringement, and attorneys' fees. In January 2006 Qualcomm amended its complaint to seek treble damages for willful infringement. Discovery is ongoing, but no trial date has been set. The court conducted claims construction hearings in the first half of 2006 and has scheduled further claims construction hearings in August and September 2006.
     In August 2005 Qualcomm filed a second complaint against Broadcom in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California alleging that we breached a contract relating to Bluetooth development and seeking a declaration that two of our patents are invalid and not infringed. In March 2006 Qualcomm filed an amended complaint providing further details concerning the same causes of action. We filed an answer in April 2006 denying the allegations in the complaint and asserting counterclaims. The counterclaims assert that Qualcomm has infringed, both directly and indirectly, the same two Broadcom patents, and also allege breach of the Bluetooth contract by Qualcomm. Broadcom is seeking preliminary and permanent injunctions against Qualcomm and the recovery of monetary damages, including treble damages for willful infringement, and attorneys' fees. Discovery is ongoing, and trial has been set for March 2007.
Table of Contents
     In October 2005 Qualcomm filed a third complaint against Broadcom in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California alleging that certain of our products infringe, both directly and indirectly, two Qualcomm patents relating generally to the processing of digital video signals. The complaint seeks preliminary and permanent injunctions against us as well as the recovery of monetary damages and attorneys' fees. We filed an answer in December 2005 denying the allegations in Qualcomm's complaint and asserting counterclaims seeking a declaratory judgment that the two Qualcomm patents are invalid and not infringed. A claims construction hearing was held in March 2006. Discovery in the action is ongoing, and trial has been set for January 2007.
     In March 2006 Qualcomm filed a fourth complaint against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California alleging that we had misappropriated certain Qualcomm trade secrets and that certain of Broadcom's products infringe, both directly and indirectly, a patent related generally to orthogonal frequency division multiplexing. The complaint seeks preliminary and permanent injunctions against us as well as the recovery of monetary damages, including double damages, and attorneys' fees. We filed an answer in May 2006 denying the allegations in Qualcomm's complaint and asserting counterclaims. The counterclaims seek a declaratory judgment that the Qualcomm patent is invalid and not infringed, and assert that Qualcomm has infringed, both directly and indirectly, two of our patents relating generally to video technology. The counterclaims seek preliminary and permanent injunctions against Qualcomm and the recovery of monetary damages, including treble damages for willful infringement, and attorneys' fees. In June 2006 Qualcomm filed a motion for preliminary injunction against Broadcom. The court has not yet ruled on Qualcomm's motion. In July 2006 we filed a motion to amend our answer to add a counterclaim asserting that Qualcomm has misappropriated certain Broadcom trade secrets, and Qualcomm filed a motion to amend its complaint to add three individual Broadcom employees as defendants and include additional allegations of trade secret misappropriation. The court has not yet ruled on either motion. Discovery is ongoing, and trial has been set for October 2007.
     In July 2005 Broadcom filed a complaint against Qualcomm in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey asserting that Qualcomm's licensing and other practices related to cellular technology and products violate federal and state antitrust laws. The complaint also asserts causes of action based on breach of contract, promissory estoppel, fraud, and tortious interference with prospective economic advantage. In September 2005 we filed an amended complaint in the action also challenging Qualcomm's proposed acquisition of Flarion Technologies, Inc. under the antitrust laws and asserting violations of various state unfair competition and unfair business practices laws. In December 2005 Qualcomm filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. The court has not yet ruled on the motion. Discovery has commenced, but a trial date has not been set.
Antitrust Proceedings.
     In October 2005 we and five other leading mobile wireless technology companies filed complaints with the European Commission requesting that the Commission investigate Qualcomm's anticompetitive conduct related to the licensing of its patents and the sale of its chipsets for mobile wireless devices and systems. The Commission has commenced a preliminary investigation, and is determining whether to institute a formal investigation, of Qualcomm.
     In June 2006 Broadcom and another leading mobile wireless technology company filed complaints with the Korean Fair Trade Commission requesting that the Commission investigate Qualcomm's anticompetitive conduct related to the licensing of its patents and the sale of its chipsets for mobile wireless devices and systems. The Commission is determining whether to institute a formal investigation of Qualcomm.
Table of Contents
     In March 2006 a purported class action lawsuit was filed in the Superior Court of California, County of Orange, by a plaintiff who claims to be a shareholder of Broadcom. The lawsuit, entitled (Case No. 06 CC00057), names as defendants Broadcom, each of the members of our Board of Directors, certain Broadcom officers, and Henry T. Nicholas III, our co-founder. In May 2006 the plaintiff amended her complaint and added two plaintiffs, both purportedly Broadcom shareholders. The principal claims asserted in the amended complaint are that (a) disclosures in our March 27, 2006 proxy statement concerning the Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (the "Second Amended Articles"), which, among other things, increased the number of authorized shares of Broadcom's Class A common stock, are incorrect and/or misleading; (b) Broadcom's recent stock split, the recent amendment to our share repurchase program, and recent and proposed changes in the compensation of our non-employee directors constitute breaches of the defendants' fiduciary duties; and (c) the defendants improperly dated Broadcom's stock option grants to enhance defendants' own profits on the exercise of such options. Plaintiff contends, among other things, that the proposed increase in the number of authorized Class A shares is part of an alleged scheme to allow our insiders to sell Class B stock and nevertheless retain voting control over Broadcom's affairs, and that the alleged manipulation of stock option grants was a breach of the defendants' fiduciary duties, resulted in defendants' unjust enrichment, and caused errors in our financial statements. The complaint seeks, among other things, a declaration that the Second Amended Articles are invalid, an injunction against the continuation and expansion of a plan to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock, rescission of certain changes to non-employee director compensation, and unspecified damages and disgorgement of profits from the alleged conduct.
Securities Litigation.
Jin v. Broadcom Corporation, et al.
     The plaintiff filed a motion for a temporary restraining order enjoining us from holding a vote on the approval of the Second Amended Articles at our 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and from filing the Second Amended Articles with the California Secretary of State. The court denied that motion in April 2006. In June 2006 defendants removed the action to the United States District Court for the Central District of California (where it was assigned Case No. 06CV00573), the plaintiffs filed a motion to remand the case to the Superior Court, and the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. The motion to remand is currently set for hearing in September 2006. The parties have agreed to postpone further briefing on defendants' motion to dismiss until after that hearing. We intend to defend the lawsuit vigorously.
     From May 2006 through July 2006, a number of purported Broadcom shareholders brought four putative shareholder derivative actions (the "Options Derivative Actions") against Broadcom, our entire Board of Directors, certain current or former officers, and Henry T. Nicholas, our co-founder, alleging that the defendants improperly dated certain Broadcom employee stock option grants. Two of those cases, (Case No. CV06-3252) and (Case No. SACV06-663) are pending in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The remaining two actions, (Case No. 06CC0124) and (Case No. 06CC0142), are pending in the California Superior Court for the County of Orange. The plaintiffs in the Options Derivative Actions contend, among other things, that the defendants' conduct violated the United States and California securities laws, breached defendants' fiduciary duties, wasted corporate assets, unjustly enriched the defendants, and caused errors in our financial statements. The plaintiffs seek, among other things, unspecified damages and disgorgement of profits from the alleged conduct, to be paid to Broadcom. In July 2006 the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint on the grounds that the plaintiff lacks standing to bring the action on behalf of the company. In response to that motion, the and plaintiffs agreed to file a consolidated amended complaint. The defendants' responses to the complaints in the Options Derivative
Murphy v. McGregor, et al.
Shei v. McGregor, et al.
Pirelli Armstrong Tire Corp. Retiree Med. Benefits Trust v. Samueli, et al.
Servais v. Samueli, et al.
Murphy
Murphy
Shei
Table of Contents
Actions (including the consolidated amended complaint in and ) are due beginning in August 2006. We intend to defend these actions vigorously.
Murphy
Shei
     We have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our present and former directors and officers. Under these agreements, Broadcom is required to indemnify each such director or officer against expenses, including attorney's fees, judgments, fines and settlements, paid by such individual in connection with the lawsuit and the Options Derivative Actions (other than indemnified liabilities arising from willful misconduct or conduct that is knowingly fraudulent or deliberately dishonest).
Jin
     In June 2005 the United States Attorney's Office for the Northern District of California commenced an investigation into the possible misuse of proprietary competitor information by certain Broadcom employees. In December 2005 one former employee was indicted for fraud and related activity in connection with computers and trade secret misappropriation. The former employee had been immediately suspended in June 2005, after just two months' employment, when we learned about the government investigation. Following an internal investigation, his employment was terminated, nearly two months prior to the indictment. The indictment does not allege any wrongdoing by Broadcom, which is cooperating fully with the ongoing investigation and the prosecution.
United States Attorney's Office Investigation and Prosecution.
     The foregoing discussion includes material developments that occurred during the three months ended June 30, 2006 or thereafter in material legal proceedings in which Broadcom and/or our subsidiaries are involved. For additional information regarding certain of these legal proceedings, see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.
General.
     We and our subsidiaries are also involved in other legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business.
     The pending proceedings involve complex questions of fact and law and will require the expenditure of significant funds and the diversion of other resources to prosecute and defend. The results of legal proceedings are inherently uncertain, and material adverse outcomes are possible. The resolution of any future intellectual property litigation may require us to pay damages for past infringement or one-time license fees or running royalties, which could adversely impact gross profit and gross margins in future periods, or could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products or limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for Broadcom. From time to time we may enter into confidential discussions regarding the potential settlement of pending litigation or other proceedings; however, there can be no assurance that any such discussions will occur or will result in a settlement. The settlement of any pending litigation or other proceeding could require us to incur substantial settlement payments and costs. In addition, the settlement of any intellectual property proceeding may require us to obtain a license under the other party's intellectual property rights that could require one-time license fees and/or royalty payments in the future and/or to grant a license to certain of our intellectual property rights to the other party under a cross-license agreement. If any of those events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
     In the three months ended June 30, 2006, we issued an aggregate of 1.9 million shares of our Class A common stock upon conversion of a like number of shares of our Class B common stock. Each share of our
Table of Contents
Class B common stock is convertible at the option of the holder into one share of Class A common stock, and in most instances will automatically convert into one share of Class A common stock upon sale or other transfer. The offer and sale of the securities were effected without registration in reliance on the exemption from registration proved by Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act.
     
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
     In February 2005 our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock. The Board approved the repurchase of shares having an aggregate value of up to $250 million from time to time over a period of one year, depending on market conditions. In January 2006 the Board approved an amendment to the share repurchase program extending the program through January 27, 2007 and authorizing the repurchase of additional shares of our Class A common stock having a total market value of up to $500 million from time to time during the period beginning January 26, 2006 and ending January 26, 2007. The following table details the repurchases that were made under the program during the three months ended June 30, 2006:
     From the time the program was first implemented through June 30, 2006, we repurchased 11.8 million shares of our Class A common stock at a weighted average price of $33.94 per share.
     On July 24, 2006 we decided to suspend purchasing shares of Class A common stock under the share repurchase program. The suspension will be in effect until after we have filed restated financial statements and amended periodic reports with the SEC.
Item 3. Defaults upon Senior Securities
     None.
Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
     (a) Our 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "2006 Annual Meeting") was held April 27, 2006.
Table of Contents
     (b) At the 2006 Annual Meeting, the shareholders elected each of the following nominees as directors, to serve on our Board of Directors until the next annual meeting of shareholders and/or until their successors are duly elected and qualified. The vote for each director was as follows:
     (c) At the 2006 Annual Meeting, the Shareholders also voted on the following four proposals and cast their votes as follows:
     (1) To approve Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Broadcom to (i) increase the aggregate number of authorized shares of Class A common stock from 800,000,000 shares to 2,500,000,000 shares, and (ii) eliminate all statements referring to the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of Series A preferred stock, Series B preferred stock, Series C preferred stock, Series D preferred stock and Series E preferred stock.
     (2) To approve an amendment to our Bylaws, as previously amended and restated, to increase the authorized number of directors from a range of five (5) to nine (9) to a range of six (6) to eleven (11) directors.
Table of Contents
     (3) To approve an amendment and restatement of Broadcom's 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as previously amended and restated, which revises the automatic equity grant program in effect for new and continuing non-employee Board members and makes certain technical revisions and improvements.
     (4) To ratify the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2006.
Item 5. Other Information
     
Committee Composition
     In April 2006 and August 2006 our Board of Directors reconstituted its committees. The current members of each committee and the respective committee chairs are identified in the following table:
Table of Contents
     (1) Mr. Wolfen also continues to serve as Lead Independent Director.
     The Board has determined that each member of the Audit Committee (i) qualifies as an "audit committee financial expert" under applicable SEC rules and regulations governing composition of the Audit Committee and (ii) satisfies the "financial sophistication" requirements of the Nasdaq listing standards.
     
Stock Ownership Policy
     On August 2, 2006 our Board of Directors amended and restated its Policy on Stock Ownership by Members of the Board of Directors and Section 16 Officers (the "Stock Ownership Policy"). Under the Stock Ownership Policy, each Broadcom officer subject to the short-swing trading restrictions of the federal securities laws (a "Section 16 Officer") as of October 31, 2005 and each director who was serving on the Board as of October 31, 2005 shall be required to own at least the following number of shares of Broadcom common stock as of each respective date indicated below and to hold the respective indicated number of shares continuously after that date:
     A director or Section 16 Officer first elected to such capacity after October 31, 2005 will be expected to own 1,000 shares of Broadcom common stock by the first anniversary of the date he/she commences service in that capacity, increasing to 2,000 shares by the second anniversary of that date, and thereafter increasing in annual increments of 1,000 shares as of each ensuing anniversary, to a total of 5,000 shares after five years of service in that capacity, and to hold the respective indicated number of shares continuously after that date.
Item 3.02 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
     The information from Item 2 of Item 8.01 above is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01.
Exhibits
     The following Exhibits are attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference:
Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 3.1
The undersigned Scott A. McGregor and David A. Dull hereby certify that:
They are the duly elected and acting President and Secretary, respectively, of said corporation.
ONE:
The Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of said corporation shall be further amended and restated to read in full as follows:
TWO:
     The purpose of this corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the General Corporation Law of California other than the banking business, the trust company business or the practice of a profession permitted to be incorporated by the California Corporations Code.
A.
Classes of Stock
     This corporation is authorized to issue three classes of stock to be designated, respectively, "Class A Common Stock," "Class B Common Stock" and "Preferred Stock." The Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock are hereinafter referred to collectively as "" The total number of shares of stock that the corporation is authorized to issue is Two Billion Nine Hundred Six Million Four Hundred Thirty-Two Thousand One Hundred Sixty-One (2,906,432,161) shares. Two Billion Five Hundred Million (2,500,000,000) shares shall be Class A Common Stock, par value $.0001 per share, Four Hundred Million (400,000,000) shares shall be Class B Common Stock, par value $.0001 per share, and Six Million Four Hundred Thirty-Two Thousand One Hundred Sixty-One (6,432,161) shares shall be Preferred Stock, par value $.0001 per share.
Common Stock.
B.
Common Stock
     The Board of Directors of the corporation may authorize the issuance of shares of Class A Common Stock and shares of Class B Common Stock from time to time. Shares of Common Stock that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the corporation may be reissued except as otherwise provided by law.
     1. . Subject to the preferences applicable to Preferred Stock outstanding at any time, the holders of shares of Class A Common Stock and the holders of shares of Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to receive such dividends, payable in cash or otherwise, as may be declared thereon by the Board of Directors from time to time out of assets or funds of the corporation legally available therefor, that the holders of shares of Class A Common Stock and shares of Class B Common
Dividends and Distributions
provided
 
Stock shall be entitled to share equally, on a per share basis, in such dividends, subject to the limitations described below. If dividends or other distributions are declared that are payable in shares of Class A Common Stock or shares of Class B Common Stock, including distributions pursuant to stock subdivisions or combinations of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, only shares of Class A Common Stock shall be distributed with respect to Class A Common Stock and only shares of Class B Common Stock shall be distributed with respect to Class B Common Stock, unless the Board of Directors of the corporation determines in its discretion that it is more desirable to distribute shares of Class A Common Stock with respect to Class B Common Stock, in which case shares of Class A Common Stock shall be distributed with respect to Class B Common Stock, that the number of shares of Class A Common Stock that shall be distributed with respect to Class B Common Stock shall be equal to the number of shares of Class B Common Stock that otherwise would have been distributed. If the corporation shall in any manner subdivide or combine the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, the outstanding shares of the other such series of Common Stock shall be proportionately subdivided or combined in the same manner and on the same basis as the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, as the case may be, which have been subdivided or combined. Subject to the prior rights of holders of all classes of stock at that time outstanding having prior rights as to liquidation, upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation, the assets and funds of the corporation legally available for distribution shall be distributed ratably among the holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock in proportion to the amount of such stock owned by each such holder.
provided
     2. . The holders of shares of Class A Common Stock and of Class B Common Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights
     a. Each share of Class A Common Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to one (1) vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the corporation.
     b. Each share of Class B Common Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to ten (10) votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the corporation.
     c. The holders of shares of Class A Common Stock and the holders of shares of Class B Common Stock shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of the corporation, except (i) as otherwise required by applicable law; and (ii) in the case of a proposed issuance of shares of Class B Common Stock, which issuance shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock voting separately as a class; that such approval shall not be required if the proposed issuance of Class B Common Stock has been approved by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the Board of Directors then in office.
provided, however,
     3. .
Transfer of Class B Common Stock to Permitted Transferee
     a. Except as provided in Section 3(b) or Section 4 of this Article III.B, no person holding shares of Class B Common Stock or any beneficial interest therein (a "") may voluntarily or involuntarily transfer (including without limitation the power to vote such shares of Class B Common Stock by proxy or otherwise except for proxies given to any Permitted Transferee of the Class B Holder), sell, assign, devise or bequeath any of such Class B Holder's interest in his Class B Common Stock, and the corporation and the transfer agent for the Class B Common Stock, if any (the ""), shall not register the transfer of such shares of Class B Common Stock, whether by sale, grant of proxy, assignment, gift, devise, bequest, appointment or otherwise, except to a "" of such Class B Holder, which term shall include the corporation and shall have the following additional meanings in the following cases:
Class B Holder
Transfer Agent
Permitted Transferee
 
     (i) In the case of a Class B Holder who is a natural person holding record and beneficial ownership of the shares of Class B Common Stock in question, "" means: (a) the spouse of such Class B Holder (the ""); (b) a lineal descendant, or the spouse of such lineal descendant (collectively, ""), of such Class B Holder or of the Spouse; (c) the trustee of a trust (including a voting trust) for the benefit of such Class B Holder, the Spouse, other Descendants, or an organization contributions to which are deductible for federal income, estate or gift tax purposes (a ""), and for the benefit of no other person; that such trust may grant a general or special power of appointment to the Spouse or to the Descendants and may permit trust assets to be used to pay taxes, legacies and other obligations of the trust or of the estate of such Class B Holder payable by reason of the death of such Class B Holder or the death of the Spouse or a Descendant, and that such trust (subject to the grant of a power of appointment as provided above) must prohibit transfer of shares of Class B Common Stock or a beneficial interest therein to persons other than Permitted Transferees as defined in subparagraph (ii) of this Section 3(a) (a ""); (d) a Charitable Organization established by such Class B Holder or a Descendant; (e) an Individual Retirement Account, as defined in Section 408(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, of which such Class B Holder is a participant or beneficiary, that such Class B Holder is vested with the power to direct the investment of funds deposited into such Individual Retirement Account and to control the voting of securities held by such Individual Retirement Account (an ""); (f) a pension, profit sharing, stock bonus or other type of plan or trust of which such Class B Holder is a participant or beneficiary and which satisfies the requirements for qualification under Section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code, that such Class B Holder is vested with the power to direct the investment of funds deposited into such plan or trust and to control the voting of securities held by such plan or trust, (a ""); (g) a corporation all of the outstanding capital stock of which is owned by, or a partnership all of the partners of which are, such Class B Holder, his or her Spouse, his or her Descendants, any Permitted Transferee of the Class B Holder and/or any other Class B Holder or its Permitted Transferee determined pursuant to this subparagraph (i) of this Section 3(a), that if any share (or any interest in any share) of capital stock of such a corporation (or of any survivor of a merger or consolidation of such corporation), or any partnership interest in such a partnership, is acquired by any person who is not within such class of persons, all shares of Class B Common Stock then held by such corporation or partnership, as the case may be, shall be deemed without further act on anyone's part to be converted into shares of Class A Common Stock and stock certificates formerly representing such shares of Class B Common Stock shall thereupon and thereafter be deemed to represent the like number of shares of Class A Common Stock in the manner set forth in Section 4(b) of this Article IIIB; (h) another Class B Holder or such Class B Holder's Permitted Transferee determined pursuant to this subparagraph (i) of this Section 3(a); and (i) in the event of the death of such Class B Holder, such Class B Holder's estate.
Permitted Transferee
Spouse
Descendants
Charitable Organization
provided
Trust
provided
IRA
provided
Plan
provided
     (ii) In the case of a Class B Holder holding the shares of Class B Common Stock in question as trustee of an IRA, a Plan or a Trust other than a Trust described in subparagraph (iii) of this Section 3(a), "" means: (a) any participant in or beneficiary of such IRA, such Plan or such Trust, or the person who transferred such shares of Class B Common Stock to such IRA, such Plan or such Trust, and (b) a Permitted Transferee of any such person or persons determined pursuant to subparagraph (i) of this Section 3(a).
Permitted Transferee
     (iii) In the case of a Class B Holder holding the shares of Class B Common Stock in question as trustee pursuant to a Trust which was irrevocable on the Record Date (as defined below), "" means any person as of the Record Date to whom or for whose benefit principal may be distributed either during or at the end of the term of such Trust whether by power of appointment or otherwise. For purposes of these Articles of Incorporation, there shall be one "," which
Permitted Transferee
Record Date
 
date shall be the date that is the record date for determining the persons to whom the Class B Common Stock is first distributed by the corporation.
     (iv) In the case of a Class B Holder holding record (but not beneficial) ownership of the shares of Class B Common Stock in question as nominee for the person who was the beneficial owner thereof on the Record Date, "" means such beneficial owner and a Permitted Transferee of such beneficial owner determined pursuant to subparagraph (i), (ii), (iii), (v) or (vi) of this Section 3(a), as the case may be.
Permitted Transferee
     (v) In the case of a Class B Holder that is a partnership holding record and beneficial ownership of the shares of Class B Common Stock in question, "Permitted Transferee" means any partner of such partnership, provided that such partner was a partner in the partnership at the time it first became a Class B Holder, or any Permitted Transferee of such partner determined pursuant to subparagraph (i) of this Section 3(a).
     (vi) In the case of a Class B Holder that is a corporation, other than a Charitable Organization described in clause (d) of subparagraph (i) of this Section 3(a), holding record and beneficial ownership of the shares of Class B Common Stock in question (a ""), "" means (a) any shareholder of such Corporate Holder, provided that such shareholder was a shareholder of the Corporate Holder at the time it first became a Class B Holder, or any Permitted Transferee of any such shareholder determined pursuant to subparagraph (i) of this Section 3(a); and (b) the survivor (the "") of a merger or consolidation of such Corporate Holder, so long as such Survivor is controlled, directly or indirectly, by those shareholders of the Corporate Holder who were shareholders of the Corporate Holder at the time the Corporate Holder first became a Class B Holder or any Permitted Transferees of such shareholders determined pursuant to subparagraph (i) of this Section 3(a).
Corporate Holder
Permitted Transferee
Survivor
     (vii) In the case of a Class B Holder that is the estate of a deceased Class B Holder, or that is the estate of a bankrupt or insolvent Class B Holder, and provided such deceased, bankrupt or insolvent Class B Holder, as the case may be, held record and beneficial ownership of the shares of Class B Common Stock in question, "" means a Permitted Transferee of such deceased, bankrupt or insolvent Class B Holder as determined pursuant to subparagraphs (i), (v) or (vi) of this Section 3(a), as the case may be.
Permitted Transferee
     (viii) In the case of any Class B Holder who desires to make a bona fide gift, "" means any other Class B Holder or its Permitted Transferee determined pursuant to subparagraph (i) of this Section 3(a).
Permitted Transferee
     (ix) In the case of any Class B Holder, "" means any person or entity that will hold record (but not beneficial) ownership of the shares of Class B Stock in question as nominee for the Class B Holder or its Permitted Transferee determined pursuant to subparagraph (i), (ii), (iii), (v) or (vi) of this Section 3(a), as the case may be.
Permitted Transferee
     b. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, any Class B Holder may pledge such holder's shares of Class B Common Stock to a pledgee pursuant to a bona fide pledge of such shares as collateral security for indebtedness due to the pledgee, provided that such shares shall not be transferred to, registered in the name of or voted by the pledgee and shall remain subject to this Section 3. In the event of foreclosure or other similar action by the pledgee, such pledged shares of Class B Common Stock may only be transferred to a Permitted Transferee of the pledgor or converted into shares of Class A Common Stock, as the pledgee may elect.
 
     c. For purposes of this Section 3:
     (i) The relationship of any person that is derived by or through legal adoption shall be considered a natural relationship.
     (ii) Each joint owner of shares (if a Permitted Transferee) or owner of a community property interest in shares (if a Permitted Transferee) of Class B Common Stock shall be considered a "Class B Holder" of such shares.
     (iii) A minor for whom shares of Class B Common Stock are held pursuant to a Uniform Transfer to Minors Act or similar law shall be considered a Class B Holder of such shares.
     (iv) Unless otherwise specified, the term "" means and includes natural persons, corporations, partnerships, unincorporated associations, firms, joint ventures, trusts and all other entities.
person
     (v) The conversion of Class B Common Stock into securities of another corporation in connection with a merger effected for the purpose of reincorporating the corporation in another state shall not constitute a transfer of such Class B Common Stock.
     d. Except as otherwise provided in Section 4(b), any purported transfer of shares of Class B Common Stock not permitted hereunder shall be void and of no effect, and the purported transferee shall have no rights as a shareholder of the corporation and no other rights against or with respect to the corporation. The corporation may, as a condition to the transfer or the registration of transfer of shares of Class B Common Stock to a purported Permitted Transferee, require the furnishing of such affidavits or other proof as it deems necessary to establish that such transferee is a Permitted Transferee. The corporation may require that each certificate representing shares of Class B Common Stock shall be endorsed with a legend that states that shares of Class B Common Stock are not transferable other than to certain transferees and are subject to certain restrictions as set forth in the Articles of Incorporation filed by the corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of California.
     4. .
Transfer of Class B Common Stock to Person Other than Permitted Transferee; Conversion and Exchange of Class B Common Stock
     a. Each share of Class B Common Stock, at the option of its holder, may at any time be converted into one (1) fully paid and nonassessable share of Class A Common Stock. Such right shall be exercised by the surrender of the certificate representing such share of Class B Common Stock to be converted to the corporation at any time during normal business hours at the principal executive offices of the corporation or at the office of the Transfer Agent, accompanied by a written notice of the election by the holder thereof to convert and (if so required by the corporation or the Transfer Agent) by instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the corporation and to the Transfer Agent, duly executed by such holder or such holder's duly authorized attorney, and transfer tax stamps or funds therefor, if required pursuant to Section 4(e).
     b. If the beneficial ownership (as determined under Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) of any share or any interest in any share of Class B Common Stock changes, voluntarily or involuntarily, such that each new beneficial owner of such share is not a "Permitted Transferee" (as defined in Section 3(a) of this Article IIIB) of the beneficial owner of such share of Class B Common Stock immediately prior to such change in beneficial ownership, then each such share shall thereupon be converted automatically into one (1) fully paid and nonassessable share of Class A Common Stock. The Secretary of the
 
corporation shall determine whether a change in beneficial ownership requires conversion under this paragraph. Upon making such determination, the Secretary of the corporation shall promptly request of the holder of record of each such share that each such holder promptly deliver, and each such holder shall promptly deliver, the certificate representing each such share to the corporation for documentation of such conversion, together with instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the corporation and Transfer Agent, duly executed by such holder or such holder's duly authorized attorney, and together with transfer tax stamps or funds therefor, if required pursuant to Section 4(e) of this Article IIIB.
     c. As promptly as practicable following the surrender for conversion of a certificate representing shares of Class B Common Stock in the manner provided in paragraphs a or b, as applicable, of this Section 4 and the payment in cash of any amount required by the provisions of Section 4(e) of this Article IIIB, the corporation will deliver or cause to be delivered at the office of the Transfer Agent to or upon the written order of the holder of such certificate, a certificate or certificates representing the number of full shares of Class A Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, issued in such name or names as such holder may direct. In the case of a conversion under Section 4(a) of this Article IIIB, such conversion shall be deemed to have been made immediately prior to the close of business on the date of the surrender of the certificate representing shares of Class B Common Stock. In the case of a conversion under Section 4(b), such conversion shall be deemed to have been made on the date that the beneficial ownership of such share has changed as set forth in Section 4(b). Upon the date any conversion under Section 4(a) is made, all rights of the holder of such shares as such holder shall cease, and the person or persons in whose name or names the certificate or certificates representing the shares of Class A Common Stock are to be issued shall be treated for all purposes as having become the record holder or holders of such shares of Class A Common Stock; that any such surrender and payment on any date when the stock transfer books of the corporation shall be closed shall constitute the person or persons in whose name or names the certificate or certificates representing shares of Class A Common Stock are to be issued as the record holder or holders thereof for all purposes immediately prior to the close of business on the next succeeding day on which stock transfer books are open. Upon the date any conversion under Section 4(b) is made, all rights of the holder of such share as such holder shall cease, and the new beneficial owner or owners of such shares shall be treated for all purposes as having become the record holder or holders of such shares of Class A Common Stock.
provided, however,
     d. The corporation covenants that it will at all times reserve and keep available, solely for the purpose of issue upon conversion of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock, such number of shares of Class A Common Stock as shall be issuable upon the conversion of all such outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock. The corporation covenants that if any shares of Class A Common Stock required to be reserved for purposes of conversion hereunder require registration with or approval of any governmental authority under any federal or state law before such shares of Class A Common Stock may be issued upon conversion, the corporation will cause such shares to be duly registered or approved, as the case may be. The corporation will endeavor to list the shares of Class A Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion prior to such delivery upon each national securities exchange or automated quotation system upon which the outstanding Class A Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery. The corporation covenants that all shares of Class A Common Stock that shall be issued upon conversion of the shares of fully paid and nonassessable Class B Common Stock will, upon issue, be fully paid and nonassessable.
     e. The issuance of certificates for shares of Class A Common Stock upon conversion of shares of Class B Common Stock shall be made without charge for any stamp or other similar tax in respect of such issuance. However, if any such certificate is to be issued in a name other than that of the holder of the share or shares of Class B Common Stock converted, then the person or persons requesting the
 
issuance thereof shall pay to the corporation the amount of any tax that may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in such issuance or shall establish to the satisfaction of the corporation that such tax has been paid.
     5. . The Common Stock is not redeemable.
Redemption
     6. . In connection with repurchases by this corporation of its Common Stock pursuant to agreements with certain of the holders thereof, Sections 502 and 503 of the California Corporations Code shall not apply in whole or in part with respect to such repurchases.
Repurchase of Shares
     C. . The Preferred Stock authorized by these Articles of Incorporation may be issued from time to time in one or more series. The Board of Directors is hereby authorized to fix or alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imposed upon any wholly unissued series of Preferred Stock, and the number of shares constituting any such series and the designation thereof, or of any of them. Subject to compliance with applicable protective voting rights that may be granted to the Preferred Stock or any series thereof in Certificates of Determination or the corporation's Articles of Incorporation (""), but notwithstanding any other rights of the Preferred Stock or any series thereof, the rights, privileges, preferences and restrictions of any such series may be subordinated to, with (including, without limitation, inclusion in provisions with respect to liquidation and acquisition preferences, redemption and/or approval of matters by vote or written consent), or senior to any of those of any present or future class or series of Preferred or Common Stock. Subject to compliance with applicable Protective Provisions, the Board of Directors is also authorized to increase or decrease the number of shares of any series, prior or subsequent to the issuance of shares of that series, but not below the number of shares of such series then outstanding. In case the number of shares of any series shall be so decreased, the shares constituting such decrease shall resume the status that they had prior to the adoption of the resolutions originally fixing the number of shares of such series.
Preferred Stock
Protective Provisions
pari passu
     A. The liability of the directors of this corporation for monetary damages shall be eliminated to the fullest extent permissible under California law.
     B. This corporation is authorized to provide indemnification of agents (as defined in Section 317 of the California Corporations Code) through bylaw provisions, agreements with the agents, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors, or otherwise in excess of the indemnification otherwise permitted by Section 317 of the California Corporations Code, subject only to applicable limits set forth in Section 204 of the California Corporations Code with respect to actions for breach of duty to the corporation and its shareholders.
     : The foregoing amendment has been approved by the Board of Directors of said corporation.
THREE
     : The foregoing amendment was approved by the holders of the requisite number of shares of said corporation in accordance with Sections 902 and 903 of the General Corporation Law of California; the total number of outstanding shares of each class entitled to vote with respect to the foregoing amendment was 465,813,596 shares of Class A common stock and 77,029,173 shares of Class B common stock. The number of shares voting in favor of the foregoing amendment equaled or exceeded the vote required, such required vote being (i) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of the outstanding shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock, voting together as a single class, and (ii) more than 50% of the outstanding shares of the Class A common stock, voting separately as a single class.
FOUR
 
     The undersigned further declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the matters set forth in this certificate are true and correct of their own knowledge.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this certificate on June 7, 2006.

 
Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
     1.1
PRINCIPAL OFFICE
     The Board of Directors shall fix the location of the principal executive office of the corporation at any place within or outside the State of California. If the principal executive office is located outside California and the corporation has one or more business offices in California, then the Board of Directors shall fix and designate a principal business office in California.
     1.2
OTHER OFFICES
     The Board of Directors may at any time establish branch or subordinate offices at any place or places.
     2.1
PLACE OF MEETINGS
     Meetings of shareholders shall be held at any place within or outside the State of California designated by the Board of Directors. In the absence of any such designation, shareholders' meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation or any place consented to in writing by all persons entitled to vote at such meeting, given before or after the meeting and filed with the Secretary of the corporation.
     2.2
ANNUAL MEETING
     An annual meeting of shareholders shall be held each year on a date and at a time designated by the Board of Directors. At that meeting, directors shall be elected. Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting of shareholders.
     2.3
SPECIAL MEETINGS
     Special meetings of the shareholders may be called at any time, subject to the provisions of Sections 2.4 and 2.5 of these Bylaws, by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or the holders of shares entitled to cast not less than ten percent (10%) of the votes at that meeting.
 
     If a special meeting is called by anyone other than the Board of Directors or the President or the Chairman of the Board, then the request shall be in writing, specifying the time of such meeting and the general nature of the business proposed to be transacted, and shall be delivered personally or sent by registered mail or by other written communication to the Secretary of the corporation. The Board of Directors shall determine whether such shareholder or shareholders have satisfied the requirements for calling a special meeting of the shareholders and shall notify the requesting party or parties in writing of its finding. The Secretary of the corporation shall cause notice to be given to the shareholders entitled to vote, in accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.4 and 2.5 of these Bylaws, that a meeting will be held at the time requested by the person or persons calling the meeting, so long as that time is not less than thirty-five (35) nor more than sixty (60) days after the receipt of the request. If the notice is not given within twenty (20) days after receipt of the request, then the person or persons requesting the meeting may give the notice. Nothing contained in this paragraph of this Section 2.3 shall be construed as limiting, fixing or affecting the time when a meeting of shareholders called by action of the Board of Directors may be held.
     2.4
NOTICE OF SHAREHOLDERS MEETINGS
     All notices of meetings of shareholders shall be sent or otherwise given in accordance with Section 2.5 of these Bylaws not less than ten (10) (or, if sent by third-class mail pursuant to Section 2.5 of these Bylaws, not less than thirty (30)) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each shareholder entitled to vote thereat. Such notice shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting and (i) in the case of a special meeting, the general nature of the business to be transacted and that no business other than that specified in the notice may be transacted, or (ii) in the case of the annual meeting, those matters which the Board of Directors at the time of the mailing of the notice, intends to present for action by the shareholders, but, subject to the provisions of the next paragraph of this Section 2.4, any proper matter may be presented at such annual meeting for such action. The notice of any meeting at which directors are to be elected shall include the names of nominees intended at the time of the notice to be presented by the Board of Directors for election.
     If action is proposed to be taken at any meeting for approval of (i) a contract or transaction in which a director has a direct or indirect financial interest, pursuant to Section 310 of the California Corporations Code (the "Code"), (ii) an amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, pursuant to Section 902 of the Code, (iii) a reorganization of the corporation, pursuant to Section 1201 of the Code, (iv) a voluntary dissolution of the corporation, pursuant to Section 1900 of the Code or (v) a distribution in dissolution other than in accordance with the rights of any outstanding preferred shares, pursuant to Section 2007 of the Code, then the notice shall also state the general nature of that proposal.
     2.5
MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE; AFFIDAVIT OF NOTICE
     Notice of a shareholders' meeting shall be given (i) personally, in writing, (ii) by first-class mail or, if the corporation has outstanding shares held of record by five hundred (500) or more persons (determined as provided in Section 605 of the Code) on the record date for the shareholders' meeting, by third-class mail, in writing addressed to the shareholder at the address of the shareholder appearing on the books of the corporation or given by the shareholder to the
 
corporation for the purpose of notice, or if no such address appears or is given, at the place where the principal executive office of the corporation is located or (iii) by publication of a written notice at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the principal executive office is located. The notice shall be deemed to have been given at the time when delivered personally, deposited in the mail, published in an appropriate newspaper or sent by other means of written communication.
     If any notice (or any report referenced in Article VII of these Bylaws) addressed to a shareholder at the address of such shareholder appearing on the books of the corporation is returned to the corporation by the United States Postal Service marked to indicate that the United States Postal Service is unable to deliver the notice to the shareholder at that address, all future notices or reports shall be deemed to have been duly given without further mailing if the same shall be available to the shareholder upon written demand of the shareholder at the principal executive office of the corporation for a period of one (1) year from the date of the giving of the notice.
     An affidavit of mailing of any notice or report in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.5, executed by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the corporation, or any transfer agent, shall be prima facie evidence of the giving of the notice or report.
     2.6
QUORUM
     Unless otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation of the corporation, shares entitled to vote and holding a majority of the voting power, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of shareholders. The shareholders present at a duly called or held meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact business until adjournment notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum, if any action taken (other than adjournment) is approved by shares holding at least a majority of the voting power required to constitute a quorum.
     In the absence of a quorum, any meeting of shareholders may be adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the shares represented either in person or by proxy, but no other business may be transacted, except as provided in the last sentence of the preceding paragraph.
     2.7
ADJOURNED MEETING NOTICE
     Any shareholders' meeting, annual or special, whether or not a quorum is present, may be adjourned from time to time by the shares entitled to vote and holding a majority of the voting power, represented in person or by proxy, at that meeting, but in the absence of a quorum, no other business may be presented at such meeting for action or otherwise transacted at such meeting.
     When any meeting of shareholders, either annual or special, is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if its time and place are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. However, if the adjournment is for more than forty-five (45) days from the date set for the original meeting or if a new record date for the adjourned meeting is fixed, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each
 
shareholder of record entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting in accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.4 and 2.5 of these Bylaws. At any adjourned meeting the corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
     2.8
VOTING
     The shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.11 of these Bylaws, subject to the provisions of Sections 702 through 704 of the Code (relating to voting shares held by a fiduciary, in the name of a corporation, or in joint ownership).
     Elections for directors and voting on any other matter at a shareholders' meeting need not be by ballot unless a shareholder demands election by ballot at the meeting and before the voting begins.
     Except as provided in the last paragraph of this Section 2.8, each outstanding share shall be entitled to that number of votes set forth in the Articles of Incorporation on each matter submitted to a vote of the shareholders. Any holder of shares entitled to vote on any matter may vote part of the shares in favor of the proposal and refrain from voting the remaining shares or may vote them against the proposal other than elections to office, but, if the shareholder fails to specify the number of shares such shareholder is voting affirmatively, it will be conclusively presumed that the shareholder's approving vote is with respect to all shares which the shareholder is entitled to vote.
     The affirmative vote of shares holding a majority of the voting power, represented and voting at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present (which shares voting affirmatively also constitute at least a majority of the voting power required to constitute a quorum), shall be the act of the shareholders, unless the vote of a greater number of voting by classes is required by the Code or by the Articles of Incorporation.
     The shareholders of the corporation shall not have the right to cumulate their votes for the election of directors of the corporation.
     2.9
VALIDATION OF MEETINGS; WAIVER OF NOTICE CONSENT
     The transactions of any meeting of shareholders, either annual or special, however called and noticed, and whenever held, are as valid as though they had been taken at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum be present either in person or by proxy, and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the persons entitled to vote, not present in person or by proxy, signs a written waiver of notice or a consent to the holding of the meeting or an approval of the minutes thereof. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of shareholders need be specified in any written waiver of notice or consent to the holding of the meeting or approval of the minutes thereof, except that if action is taken or proposed to be taken for approval of any of those matters specified in the second paragraph of Section 2.4 of these Bylaws, the waiver of notice or consent or approval shall state the general nature of the proposal. All such waivers, consents, and approval shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
 
     Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of and presence at that meeting, except when the person objects, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened, and except that attendance at a meeting is not a waiver of any right to object to the consideration of matters required by the Code to be included in the notice of such meeting and not so included, if such objection is expressly made at the meeting.
     2.10
SHAREHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
     Any action which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting and without prior notice, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding shares having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, directors may not be elected by written consent except by unanimous written consent of all shares entitled to vote for the election of directors; provided that the shareholders may elect a director to fill any vacancy not filled by the Board of Directors, other than a vacancy created by removal, by the written consent of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote.
     All such consents shall be maintained in the corporate records. Any shareholder giving a written consent, or the shareholder's proxy holders, or a transferee of the shares, or a personal representative of the shareholder, or their respective proxy holders, may revoke the consent by a writing received by the Secretary of the corporation before written consents of the number of shares required to authorize the proposed action have been filed with the Secretary of the corporation.
     If the consents of all shareholders entitled to vote have not been solicited in writing, the Secretary of the corporation shall give prompt notice of any corporate action approved by the shareholders without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent to those shareholders entitled to vote who have not consented in writing. Such notice shall be given in the manner specified in Section 2.5 of these Bylaws. In the case of approval of (i) a contract or transaction in which a director has a direct or indirect financial interest, pursuant to Section 310 of the Code, (ii) indemnification of a corporate "agent," pursuant to Section 317 of the Code, (iii) a reorganization of the corporation, pursuant to Section 1201 of the Code and (iv) a distribution in dissolution other than in accordance with the rights of outstanding preferred shares, pursuant to Section 2007 of the Code, the notice shall be given at least ten (10) days before the consummation of any action authorized by that approval, unless the consents of all shareholders entitled to vote have been solicited in writing.
     2.11
RECORD DATE FOR SHAREHOLDER NOTICE; VOTING; GIVING CONSENTS
     In order that the corporation may determine the shareholders entitled to notice of any meeting or to vote, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not
 
be more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days prior to the date of such meeting nor more than sixty (60) days before any other action. Shareholders at the close of business on the record date are entitled to notice and to vote, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date, except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation or the Code.
     A determination of shareholders or record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting, but the Board of Directors shall fix a new record date if the meeting is adjourned for more than forty-five (45) days from the date set for the original meeting.
     If the Board of Directors does not so fix a record date:
     (a) The record date for determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall be at the close of business on the business day next preceding the day on which notice is given or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the business day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
     (b) The record date for determining shareholders entitled to give consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, (i) when no prior action by the Board of Directors has been taken, shall be the day on which the first written consent is given, or (ii) when prior action by the Board of Directors has been taken, shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto, or the sixtieth (60th) day prior to the date of such other action, whichever is later.
     The record date for any other purpose shall be as provided in Section 8.1 of these Bylaws.
     2.12
PROXIES
     Every person entitled to vote for directors, or on any other matter, shall have the right to do so either in person or by one or more agents authorized by a written proxy signed by the person and filed with the Secretary of the corporation. A proxy shall be deemed signed if the shareholder's name or other authorization is placed on the proxy (whether by manual signature, typewriting, telegraphic or electronic transmission or otherwise) by the shareholder or the shareholder's attorney-in-fact. A validly executed proxy which does not state that it is irrevocable shall continue in full force and effect unless (i) the person who executed the proxy revokes it prior to the time of voting by delivering a writing to the corporation stating that the proxy is revoked or by executing a subsequent proxy and presenting it to the meeting or by attendance at such meeting and voting in person or (ii) written notice of the death or incapacity of the maker of that proxy is received by the corporation before the vote pursuant to that proxy is counted; provided, however, that no proxy shall be valid after the expiration of eleven (11) months from the date thereof, unless otherwise provided in the proxy. The dates contained on the forms of proxy presumptively determine the order of execution, regardless of the postmark dates on the envelopes in which they are mailed. The revocability of a proxy that states on its face that it is irrevocable shall be governed by the provisions of Sections 705(e) and 705(f) of the Code.
 
     2.13
INSPECTORS OF ELECTION
     In advance of any meeting of shareholders, the Board of Directors may appoint inspectors of election to act at the meeting and any adjournment thereof. If inspectors of election are not so appointed or designed or if any persons so appointed fail to appear or refuse to act, then the Chairman of the meeting may, and on the request of any shareholder or a shareholder's proxy shall, appoint inspectors of election (or persons to replace those who so fail to appear) at the meeting. The number of inspectors shall be either one (1) or three (3). If appointed at a meeting on the request of one (1) or more shareholders or proxies, shares holding a majority of the voting power, represented in person or by proxy, shall determine whether one (1) or three (3) inspectors are to be appointed.
     The inspectors of election shall determine the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, the shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, and the authenticity, validity, and effect of proxies, receive votes, ballots or consents, hear and determine all challenges and questions in any way arising in connection with the right to vote, count and tabulate all votes or consents, determine when the polls shall close, determine the result and do any other acts that may be proper to conduct the election or vote with fairness to all shareholders.
     3.1
POWERS
     Subject to the provisions of the Code, any limitations in the Articles of Incorporation and these Bylaws relating to action required to be approved by the shareholders or by the outstanding shares, the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may delegate the management of the day-to-day operation of the business of the corporation to a management company or other person provided that the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised under the ultimate direction of the Board of Directors.
     3.2
NUMBER OF DIRECTORS
     The authorized number of directors of the corporation shall be not less than six (6) nor more than eleven (11), and the exact number of directors shall be set from time to time within the limits specified above, by a resolution amending such exact number, duly adopted by the Board of Directors or by the shareholders. The minimum and maximum number of directors may be changed, or a definite number may be fixed without provision for an indefinite number, by a duly adopted amendment to the Articles of Incorporation or by an amendment to this Bylaw duly adopted by vote or written consent of holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares entitled to vote.
     No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director before that director's term of office expires.
 
     3.3
ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE OF DIRECTORS
     At each annual meeting of shareholders, directors shall be elected to hold office until the next annual meeting. Each director, including a director elected to fill a vacancy, shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which elected and until a successor has been elected and qualified, except in the case of the death, resignation or removal of such a director. Directors need not be shareholders.
     3.4
REMOVAL
     The entire Board of Directors or any individual director may be removed from office without cause by the affirmative vote of shares holding a majority of the voting power that are entitled to vote on such removal; provided, however, that unless the entire Board of Directors is removed, no individual director may be removed when the votes cast against such director's removal, or not consenting in writing to such removal, would be sufficient to elect that director if voted cumulatively at an election at which the same total number of votes cast were cast (or, if such action is taken by written consent, all shares entitled to vote were voted) and the entire number of directors authorized at the same time of such director's most recent election were then being elected.
     3.5
RESIGNATION AND VACANCIES
     Any director may resign effective upon giving oral or written notice to the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Secretary or the Board of Directors of the corporation, unless the notice specifies a later time for the effectiveness of such resignation. If the resignation of a director is effective at a future time, the Board of Directors may elect a successor to take office when the resignation becomes effective.
     Vacancies on the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, or if the number of directors then in office is less than a quorum by (i) unanimous written consent of the directors then in office, (ii) the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office at a meeting held pursuant to notice or waiver of notice or (iii) a sole remaining director; however, a vacancy created by the removal of a director by the vote or written consent of the shareholders or by court order may be filled only by the affirmative vote of shares holding a majority of the voting power represented and voting at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present (which shares voting affirmatively also constitute at least a majority of the voting power required to constitute a quorum), or by the unanimous written consent of all shares entitled to vote thereon. Each director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the shareholders and until a successor has been elected and qualified, or until his or her death, resignation or removal.
     A vacancy or vacancies in the Board of Directors shall be deemed to exist (i) in the event of the death, resignation or removal of any director, (ii) if the Board of Directors resolution declares vacant the office of a director who has been declared of unsound mind by an order of court of convicted or a felony, (iii) if the authorized number of directors is increased or (iv) if the shareholders fail, at any meeting of shareholders at which any director or directors are elected, to elect the full number of directors to be elected at that meeting.
 
     The shareholders may elect a director or directors at any time to fill any vacancy or vacancies not filled by the directors, but any such election by written consent, other than to fill a vacancy created by removal, shall require the consent of shares holding a majority of the voting power that are entitled to vote thereon. A director may not be elected by written consent to fill a vacancy created by removal except by unanimous consent of all shares entitled to vote for the election of directors.
     3.6
PLACE OF MEETINGS; MEETINGS BY TELEPHONE
     Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any place within or outside the State of California that has been designated from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. In the absence of such a designation, regular meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any place within or outside the State of California that has been designated in the notice of the meeting or, if not stated in the notice or if there is no notice, at the principal executive office of the corporation.
     Members of the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting through the use of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment, so long as all directors participating in such meeting can hear one another. Participation in a meeting pursuant to this paragraph constitutes presence in person at such meeting.
     3.7
REGULAR MEETINGS
     Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice if the time and place of such meetings are fixed by the Board of Directors.
     3.8
SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE
     Subject to the provisions of the following paragraph, special meetings of the Board of Directors for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary or any two (2) directors of the corporation.
     Notice of the time and place of special meetings shall be delivered personally or by telephone to each director or sent by first class mail or telegram (charges prepaid) or facsimile transmission, in each case addressed to each director at the director's address or facsimile telephone number as it is shown on the records of the corporation, or by electronic mail or other electronic means to the director at the director's electronic address as it is shown on the records of the corporation. If the notice is mailed, it shall be deposited in the United States mail at least four (4) days before the time of the holding of the meeting. If the notice is delivered personally or by telephone, facsimile, telegram, electronic mail or other electronic means, it shall be delivered personally or by telephone, by facsimile, to the telegraph company or by electronic mail or other electronic means at least twenty-four (24) hours before the time of the holding of the meeting. An oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated either to the director or to a person at the office of the director who the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director. The notice need not specify the purpose of the meeting.
 
     3.9
QUORUM
     A majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except to adjourn as provided in Section 3.11 of these Bylaws. Every act or decision done or made by a majority of the directors present at a meeting duly held at which a quorum is present is the act of the Board of Directors, subject to the provisions of Section 310 of the Code (as to the approval of contracts or transactions in which a director has a direct or indirect material financial interest), Section 311 of the Code (as to the appointment of committees), Section 317(a) of the Code (as to the indemnification of directors), the Articles of Incorporation, and other applicable law.
     A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action taken is approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for such meeting.
     3.10
WAIVER OF NOTICE
     Notice of a meeting need not be given to any director who signs a waiver of notice or a consent to holding the meeting or an approval of the minutes thereof, whether before or after the meeting, or who attends the meeting without protesting, prior thereto or at its commencement, the lack of notice to such director. All such waivers, consents and approval shall be filed with the corporate records or be made a part of the minutes of the meeting. A waiver of notice need not specify the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors.
     3.11
ADJOURNMENT
     A majority of the directors present, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn any meeting to another time and place.
     3.12
NOTICE OF ADJOURNMENT
     If the meeting is adjourned for over twenty-four (24) hours, notice of any adjournment to another time and place shall be given prior to the time of the adjourned meeting to the directors who were not present at the time of the adjournment.
     3.13
BOARD ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
     Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board of Directors individually or collectively consent in writing to such action. Such written consent or consents shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board of Directors. Such action by written consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote of the Board of Directors.
     3.14
FEES AND COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
     Directors and members of committees may receive such compensation, if any, for their services and such reimbursement of expenses as may be fixed or determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. This Section 3.14 shall not be construed to preclude any director from
 
serving the corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee or otherwise and from receiving compensation for those services.
     3.15
APPROVAL OF LOANS TO OFFICERS
     The corporation may, upon the approval of the Board of Directors alone, make loans of money or property to, or guarantee the obligations of, any officer of the corporation or of its parent, if any, or adopt an employee benefit plan or plans authorizing such loans or guaranties provided that (i) the Board of Directors determines that such a loan or guaranty or plan may reasonably be expected to benefit the corporation, (ii) the corporation has outstanding shares of record by 100 or more persons (determined as provided in Section 605 of the Code) on the date of approval of the Board of Directors and (iii) the approval of the Board of Directors is by a vote sufficient without counting the vote of any interested director or directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the corporation's ability to make loans to its officers shall be subject to all other limitations and requirements set forth in the Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
     4.1
COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS
     The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the authorized number of directors, designate one or more committees, each consisting of two (2) or more directors, to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent member at any meeting of the committee. The appointment of members or alternate members of a committee requires the vote of a majority of the authorized number of the directors. Any such committee shall have authority to act in the manner and to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors and may have all the authority of the Board of Directors, except with respect to:
     (a) The approval of any action which, under the Code, also requires shareholders' approval or approval of the outstanding shares.
     (b) The filling of vacancies on the Board of Directors or on any committee.
     (c) The fixing of compensation of the directors for serving on the Board of Directors or on any committee.
     (d) The amendment or repeal of these Bylaws or the adoption of new Bylaws.
     (e) The amendment or repeal of any resolution of the Board of Directors which by its express terms is not so amendable or repealable.
 
     (f) A distribution to the shareholders of the corporation, except at a rate, in a periodic amount or within a price range set forth in the Articles of Incorporation or determined by the Board of Directors.
     (g) The appointment or designation of any other committee of the Board of Directors or the members thereof.
     4.2
MEETINGS AND ACTIONS OF COMMITTEES
     Meetings and actions of committee shall be governed by, and held and taken in accordance with, the provisions of Article III of these Bylaws, Section 3.6 (place of meetings), Section 3.7 (regular meetings), Section 3.8 (special meetings and notice), Section 3.9 (quorum), Section 3.10 (waiver of notice), Section 3.11 (adjournment), Section 3.12 (notice of adjournment), and Section 3.13 (action without meeting), with such changes in the context of those Bylaws as are necessary to substitute the committee and its members for the Board of Directors and its members; provided, however, that the time of regular meetings of committees may be determined either by resolution of the Board of Directors or by resolution of the committee, that special meetings of the Committees may also be called by resolution of the Board of Directors, and that notice of special meetings of committees shall also be given to all alternate members, who shall have the right to attend all meetings of the committee. The Board of Directors may adopt rules for the government of any committee not inconsistent with the provisions of these Bylaws.
     5.1
OFFICERS
     The officers of a corporation shall be a President, a Secretary and a Chief Financial officer. The corporation may also have, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, a Chairman of the Board, one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, one or more Assistant Treasurers and such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 of these Bylaws. Any number of officers may be held by the same person.
     5.2
APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS
     The officers of the corporation, except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 of these Bylaws, shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors, subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment.
     5.3
SUBORDINATE OFFICERS
     The Board of Directors may appoint, or may empower the Chairman of the Board or the President to appoint, such other officers as the business of the corporation may require,
 
each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority and perform such duties as are provided in these Bylaws or as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
     5.4
REMOVAL OR RESIGNATION OF OFFICERS
     Subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment, all officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or, except in case of an officer chosen by the Board of Directors, by any officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the Board of Directors.
     Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the corporation. Any resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of that notice or at any later time specified in that notice, and, unless otherwise specified in that notice, the acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Any resignation is without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the corporation under any contract to which the officer is a party.
     5.5
VACANCY IN OFFICES
     A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause shall be filled in the manner prescribed by these Bylaws for regular appointments to that office.
     5.6
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
     The Chairman of the Board, if such an officer be elected, shall, if present, preside at meetings of the Board of Directors and exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Board of Directors or as may be prescribed by these Bylaws. If there is no President, then the Chairman of the Board shall also be the chief executive officer of the corporation and shall have the powers and duties prescribed in Section 5.7 of these Bylaws.
     5.7
PRESIDENT
     Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the Board of Directors to the Chairman of the Board, if there be such an officer, the President shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation and shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction and control of the business and the officers of the corporation. The President shall preside over all meetings of the shareholders and, in the absence or nonexistence of a Chairman of the Board, at all meetings of the Board of Directors. The President shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of President of a corporation, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws.
     5.8
VICE PRESIDENTS
     In the absence or disability of the President, the Vice Presidents, if any, in order of their rank as fixed by the Board of Directors or, if not ranked, a Vice President designated by
 
the Board of Directors, shall perform all the duties of the President and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the President. The Vice Presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors, these Bylaws, the President or the Chairman of the Board.
     5.9
SECRETARY
     The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the corporation or other such place as the Board of Directors may direct, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of directors, committees of directors and shareholders. The minutes shall show the time and place of each meeting, whether regular or special (and, if special, how authorized and the notice given), the names of those present at directors' meetings or committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at shareholders' meetings, and the proceedings thereof.
     The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the corporation or at the office of the corporation's transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the Board of Directors, a share register, or a duplicate share register, showing the names of all shareholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and dates of certificates evidencing such shares, and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.
     The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meeting of shareholders and of the Board of Directors required to be given by law or by these Bylaws. The Secretary shall keep the seal of the corporation, if one be adopted, in safe custody and shall have such other powers and perform other such duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by these Bylaws.
     5.10
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
     The Chief Financial Officer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings and shares. The books of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director.
     6.1
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
     The corporation shall, to the maximum extent and in the manner permitted by the Code, indemnify each of its directors against expenses (as defined in Section 317(a) of the Code), judgment, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceeding (as defined in Section 317(a) of the Code), arising by reason of
 
     the fact that such person is or was a director of the corporation. For purposes of this Article VI, a "director" of the corporation includes any person (i) who is or was a director of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or (iii) who was a director of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.
     6.2
INDEMNIFICATION OF OTHERS
     The corporation shall have the power, to the extent and in the manner permitted by the Code, to indemnify each of its employees, officers and agents (other than directors) against expenses (as defined in Section 317(a) of the Code), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceeding (as defined in Section 317(a) of the Code), arising by reason of the fact that such person is or was an employee, officer or agent of the corporation. For purposes of this Article VI, an "employee" or "officer" or "agent" of the corporation (other than a director) includes any person (i) who is or was an employee, officer or agent of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as an employee, officer or agent of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or (ii) who was an employee, officer or agent of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.
     6.3
PAYMENT OF EXPENSES IN ADVANCE
     Expenses and attorneys' fees incurred in defending any civil or criminal action or proceeding for which indemnification is required pursuant to Section 6.1, or if otherwise authorized by the Board of Directors, shall be paid by the corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the indemnified party to repay such an amount if it shall ultimately be determined that the indemnified party is not entitled to be indemnified as authorized in this Article VI.
     6.4
INDEMNITY NOT EXCLUSIVE
     The indemnification provided by this Article VI shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification may be entitled under any Bylaw, agreement, vote of shareholders or directors or otherwise, both as to action in an official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office. The rights to indemnity hereunder shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of the person.
     6.5
INSURANCE INDEMNIFICATION
     The corporation shall have the power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation against any liability asserted against or incurred by such person in such capacity or arising out of that person's status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify that person against such liability under the provisions of this Article VI.
 
     6.6
CONFLICTS
     No indemnification or advance shall be made under this Article VI, except where such indemnification or advance is mandated by law or the order, judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, in any circumstance where it appears:
     (1) That it would be inconsistent with the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation, these Bylaws, a resolution of the shareholders or an agreement in effect at the time of the accrual of the alleged cause of the action asserted in the proceeding in which the expenses were incurred or other amounts were paid, which prohibits or otherwise limits indemnification; or
     (2) That it would be inconsistent with any condition expressly imposed by a court in approving a settlement.
     6.7
RIGHT TO BRING SUIT
     If a claim under this Article VI is not paid in full by the corporation within 90 days after a written claim has been received by the corporation (either because the claim is denied or because no determination is made), the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall also be entitled to be paid the expenses of prosecuting such claim. The corporation shall be entitled to raise as a defense to any such action that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct that make it permissible under the Code for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the claim. Neither the failure of the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its shareholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is permissible in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct, if any, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including the Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its shareholders) that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to such action or create a presumption for the purposes of such action that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
     6.8
INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS
     The Board of Directors is authorized to enter into a contract with any director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or any person who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including employee benefit plans, or any person who was a director, officer, employee or agent of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation, providing for indemnification rights equivalent to or, if the Board of Directors so determines and to the extent permitted by applicable law, greater than, those provided for in this Article VI.
 
     6.9
AMENDMENT, REPEAL OR MODIFICATION
     Any amendment, repeal or modification of any provision of this Article VI shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director, employee, officer or agent of the corporation existing at the time of such amendment, repeal or modification.
     7.1
MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF SHARE REGISTER
     The corporation shall keep either at its principal executive office or at the office of its transfer agent or registrar (if either be appointed), as determined by resolution of the Board of Directors, a record of its shareholders listing the names and addresses of all shareholders and the number and class of shares held by each shareholder.
     A shareholder or shareholders of the corporation holding at least five percent (5%) in the aggregate of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation or who held at least one percent (1%) of such voting shares and have filed a Schedule 14A with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, shall have an absolute right to do either or both of the following (i) inspect and copy the record of shareholders' names, addresses, and shareholdings during usual business hours upon five (5) days' prior written demand upon the corporation or (ii) obtain from the transfer agent of the corporation, upon written demand and upon the tender of such transfer agent's usual charges for such list (the amount of which charges shall be stated to the shareholder by the transfer agent upon request), a list of the shareholders' names and addresses who are entitled to vote for the election of the directors, and their shareholdings, as of the most recent record date for which it has been compiled or as of the date specified by the shareholder subsequent to the date of demand. The list shall be made available on or before the later of five (5) business days after the demand is received or the date specified therein as the date as of which the list is to be compiled.
     The record of shareholders shall also be open to inspection or copying by any shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate at any time during usual business hours upon written demand on the corporation, for a purpose reasonably related to the holder's interests as a shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate.
     Any inspection and copying under this Section 7.1 may be made in person or by an agent or attorney of the shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate making the demand.
     7.2
MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF BYLAWS
     The corporation shall keep at its principal executive office or, if its principal executive office is not in the State of California, at its principal business office in California, the original or a copy of these Bylaws as amended to date, which shall be open to inspection by the shareholders at all reasonable times during business hours. If the principal executive office is outside the State of California and the corporation has no principal business office in such state,
 
then it shall, upon the written request of any shareholder, furnish to such shareholder a copy of these Bylaws as amended to date.
     7.3
MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF OTHER CORPORATE RECORDS
     The accounting books and records and the minutes of proceedings of the shareholders and the Board of Directors, and committees of the Board of Directors, shall be kept at such place or places as are designated by the Board of Directors or, in absence of such designation, at the principal executive office of the corporation. The minutes shall be kept in written form or in any other form capable of being converted into written form.
     The minutes and accounting books and records shall be open to inspection upon the written demand on the corporation of any shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate at any reasonable time during usual business hours, for a purpose reasonably related to such holder's interests as a shareholder or as a holder of a voting trust certificate. Such inspection by a shareholder or a holder of a voting trust certificate may be made in person or by an agent or attorney and the right of inspection includes the right to copy and make extracts. Such rights of inspections shall extend to the records of each subsidiary corporation of the corporation.
     7.4
INSPECTION BY DIRECTORS
     Every director shall have the absolute right at any reasonable time to inspect and copy all books, records and documents of every kind and to inspect the physical properties of the corporation and each of its subsidiary corporations, domestic or foreign. Such inspection by a director may be made in person or by an agent or attorney and the right of inspection includes the right to copy and make extracts.
     7.5
ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS; WAIVER
     The Board of Directors shall cause an annual report to be sent to the shareholders not later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the close of the fiscal year adopted by the corporation. Such report shall be sent to the shareholders at least fifteen (15) (or, if sent by third class mail, thirty-five (35)) days prior to the annual meeting of shareholders to be held in the next fiscal year and in the manner specified in Section 2.5 of these Bylaws for giving notice to shareholders of the corporation.
     The annual report shall contain a balance sheet as of the end of the fiscal year and an income statement and statement of changes in financial position for the fiscal year, accompanied by any report thereon of independent accountants or, if there is no such report, the certificate of an authorized officer of the corporation that the statements were prepared without audit from the books and records of the corporation.
     The foregoing requirement of an annual report shall be waived so long as the shares of the corporation are held by fewer than one hundred (100) holders of record.
 
     7.6
REPRESENTATION OF SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS
     The Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of this corporation, or any other person authorized by the Board of Directors or the President or a Vice President, is authorized to vote, represent, and exercise on behalf of this corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name of this corporation. The authority herein granted may be exercised either by such person directly or by any other person authorized to do so by proxy or by power of attorney duly executed by such person having the authority.
     8.1
RECORD DATE FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN NOTICE AND VOTING
     For purposes of determining the shareholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other lawful action (other than with respect to notice or voting at a shareholders' meeting or action by shareholders by written consent without a meeting), the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) days prior to any such action. Only shareholders of record at the close of business on the record date are entitled to receive the dividend, distribution or allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date, except as otherwise provided for in the Articles of Incorporation or the Code.
     If the Board of Directors does not so fix a record date, then the record date for determining shareholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto or the sixtieth (60th) day prior to the date of that action, whichever is later.
     8.2
CHECKS; DRAFTS; EVIDENCE OF INDEBTEDNESS
     From time to time, the Board of Directors shall determine by resolution which person or persons may sign or endorse all checks, drafts, other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness that are issued in the name of or payable to the corporation, and only the persons so authorized shall sign or endorse those instruments.
     8.3
CORPORATE CONTRACTS AND INSTRUMENTS; HOW EXECUTED
     The Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, may authorize any officer or officers, or agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of or on behalf of the corporation; such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Unless so authorized or ratified by the Board of Directors or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or
 
authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.
     8.4
CERTIFICATE FOR SHARES
     A certificate or certificates for shares of the corporation shall be issued to each shareholder when any such shares are fully paid. The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of certificates for shares partly paid provided that these certificates shall state the total amount of the consideration to be paid for them and the amount actually paid. All certificates shall be signed in the name of the corporation by the Chairman of the Board or the Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or a Vice President and by the Chief Financial Officer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the corporation, certifying the number of shares and the class and series of shares owned by the shareholder. Any or all of the signatures on the certificates may be by facsimile.
     In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed on, a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if that person were an officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
     8.5
LOST CERTIFICATES
     Except as provided in this Section 8.5, no new certificate for shares shall be issued to replace a previously issued certificate unless the latter is surrendered to the corporation or its transfer agent or registrar and cancelled at the same time. The Board of Directors may, in case any share certificate or certificate for any other security is lost, stolen or destroyed (as evidenced by a written affidavit or affirmation of such fact), authorize the issuance of replacement certificates on such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors may require. The Board of Directors may require indemnification of the corporation secured by a bond or other adequate security sufficient to protect the corporation against any claim that may be made against it, including any expense or liability, on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of the certificate or the issuance of the replacement certificate.
     8.6
CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS
     Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction and definitions in the Code shall govern the construction of these Bylaws. Without limiting the generality of the provision, the singular number includes the plural, the plural number includes the singular, and the term "person" includes both a corporation and a natural person.
 
     9.1
AMENDMENT BY SHAREHOLDERS
     New bylaws may be adopted or these Bylaws may be amended or repealed by the vote or written consent of holders of a majority of outstanding shares entitled to vote; provided, however, that if the Articles of Incorporation of the corporation set forth the number of authorized directors of the corporation, then the authorized number of directors may be changed only by an amendment of the Articles of Incorporation.
     9.2
AMENDMENT BY DIRECTORS
     Subject to the rights of the shareholders as provided by Section 9.1 of these Bylaws, bylaws, other than a bylaw or an amendment of a bylaw changing the authorized number of directors (except to fix the authorized number of directors pursuant to a bylaw providing for a variable number of directors), may be adopted, amended or repealed by the Board of Directors.
     9.3
RECORD OF AMENDMENTS
     Whenever an amendment or new bylaw is adopted, it shall be copied in the book of minutes with the original Bylaws. If any bylaw is repealed, the face of repeal, with the date of the meeting at which the repeal was enacted or written consent was filed, shall be stated in said book of minutes.
     Reference in the Bylaws to any provision of the California Corporations Code shall be deemed to include all amendments thereof.

 
Exhibit 10.1
      This amended and restated 1998 Stock Incentive Plan is intended to promote the interests of Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation, by providing eligible persons in the Corporation's service with the opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest, or otherwise increase their proprietary interest, in the Corporation as an incentive for them to remain in such service.
      Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the attached Appendix.
      All share numbers in this restatement reflect the three-for-two stock split that was effected on February 21, 2006 through the payment of a dividend of one additional share of Class A common stock for every two shares of Class A common stock outstanding, and one additional share of Class B common stock for every two shares of Class B common stock outstanding, as of the record date of February 6, 2006.
      A.     The Plan as hereby amended and restated is divided into three equity incentive programs:
      B. The provisions of Articles One and Five shall apply to all equity programs under the Plan and shall govern the interests of all persons under the Plan.
      A. The Primary Committee shall have sole and exclusive authority to administer the Discretionary Grant and Stock Issuance Programs with respect to Section 16 Insiders. Administration of the Discretionary Grant and Stock Issuance Programs with respect to all other persons eligible to participate in those programs may, at the Board's discretion, be vested in the Primary Committee or a Secondary Committee, or the Board may retain the power to administer those programs with respect to all such persons. However, any discretionary Awards to members of the Primary Committee must be authorized and approved by a disinterested majority of the Board.
      B. Members of the Primary Committee or any Secondary Committee shall serve for such period as the Board may determine and may be removed by the Board at any time. The Board may also at any time terminate the functions of any Secondary Committee and reassume all powers and authority previously delegated to such committee.
      C. Each Plan Administrator shall, within the scope of its administrative functions under the Plan, have full power and authority (subject to the provisions of the Plan) to establish such rules and regulations as it may deem appropriate for proper administration of the Discretionary Grant and Stock Issuance Programs and to make such determinations
 
under, and issue such interpretations of, the provisions of those programs and any outstanding Awards thereunder as it may deem necessary or advisable. Decisions of the Plan Administrator within the scope of its administrative functions under the Plan shall be final and binding on all parties who have an interest in the Discretionary Grant and Stock Issuance Programs under its jurisdiction or any Award thereunder.
      D. Service on the Primary Committee or the Secondary Committee shall constitute service as a Board member, and members of each such committee shall accordingly be entitled to full indemnification and reimbursement as Board members for their service on such committee. No member of the Primary Committee or the Secondary Committee shall be liable for any act or omission made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award under the Plan.
      E. Administration of the Director Automatic Grant Program shall be self-executing in accordance with the terms of that program, and no Plan Administrator shall exercise any discretionary functions with respect to any Award under that program.
      A. The persons eligible to participate in the Discretionary Grant and Stock Issuance Programs are as follows:
      B. Each Plan Administrator shall, within the scope of its administrative jurisdiction under the Plan, have full authority to determine (i) with respect to Awards made under the Discretionary Grant Program, which eligible persons are to receive such Awards, the time or times when those Awards are to be made, the number of shares to be covered by each such Award, the status of any awarded option as either an Incentive Option or a Non-Statutory Option, the exercise price per share in effect for each Award (subject to the limitations set forth in Article Two), the time or times when each Award is to vest and become exercisable and the maximum term for which the Award is to remain outstanding, and (ii) with respect to Awards under the Stock Issuance Program, which eligible persons are to receive such Awards, the time or times when the Awards are to be made, the number of shares subject to each such Award, the vesting schedule (if any) applicable to the shares subject to such Award, and the cash consideration (if any) payable for such shares.
      C. The Plan Administrator shall have the absolute discretion to grant options or stock appreciation rights in accordance with the Discretionary Grant Program and to effect stock issuances or other stock-based awards in accordance with the Stock Issuance Program.
      D. Eligible Directors for purposes of the Director Automatic Grant Program shall be limited to members of the Board who are not, at the time of such determination, employees of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary). However, a Board member who has previously been in the employ of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) shall not be eligible to receive an Award under the Director Automatic Grant Program at the time he or she first becomes a non-employee Board member, but shall be eligible to receive periodic Awards under the Director Automatic Grant Program while he or she continues to serve as an Eligible Director.
      A. The stock issuable under the Plan shall be shares of authorized but unissued or reacquired Common Stock, including shares repurchased by the Corporation on the open market. Subject to the automatic share increase provisions of Section V.B. of this Article One and any additional shares authorized by the vote of the Board and approved by the shareholders, as of February 24, 2006 the number of shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance over the term of the Plan shall not exceed 394,180,488 shares. To the extent any unvested shares of Common Stock outstanding under
(1)
 
1 The Common Stock issuable under the Plan shall be Class A Common Stock, except to the extent such stock is to be issued upon the exercise of outstanding options incorporated from the Predecessor Plans. For those options, the issuable stock shall be Class B Common Stock. As of February 24, 2006, 47,689,368 shares of Class B Common Stock have been reserved for issuance over the remaining term of the Plan.
 
the Predecessor Plans as of the Plan Effective Date are subsequently repurchased by the Corporation, at the option exercise price paid per share, in connection with the holder's termination of Service prior to vesting in those shares, the repurchased shares shall be added to the reserve of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan, but in no event shall such addition exceed 27,000,000 shares.
      B. The number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan shall automatically increase on the first trading day of January each calendar year during the term of the Plan (beginning with calendar year 2000) by an amount equal to four and one-half percent (4.5%) of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B Common Stock outstanding on the last trading day in December of the immediately preceding calendar year, but in no event shall any such annual increase exceed 37,500,000 shares.
      C. No one person participating in the Plan may be granted Awards for more than 9,000,000 shares of Common Stock in the aggregate per calendar year.
      D. Shares of Common Stock subject to outstanding Awards under the Plan (including options incorporated into this Plan from the Predecessor Plans) shall be available for subsequent issuance under the Plan to the extent (i) those Awards expire or terminate for any reason prior to the issuance of the shares of Common Stock subject to those Awards or (ii) the Awards are cancelled in accordance with the cancellation-regrant provisions of Article Two. Unvested shares issued under the Plan and subsequently cancelled or repurchased by the Corporation at the original exercise or issue price paid per share pursuant to the Corporation's repurchase rights under the Plan shall be added back to the number of shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan and shall accordingly be available for subsequent reissuance under the Plan. All shares that become available for reissuance under the Plan, including the shares of Class B Common Stock subject to the outstanding options incorporated into this Plan from the Predecessor Plans that expire or terminate unexercised and any unvested shares of Class B Common Stock repurchased by the Corporation pursuant to its repurchase rights, shall be issuable solely as Class A Common Stock. In addition, should the exercise price of an option under the Plan be paid with shares of Common Stock, the authorized reserve of Common Stock under the Plan shall be reduced only by the net number of shares issued under the exercised stock option. Should shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable under the Plan be withheld by the Corporation in satisfaction of the withholding taxes incurred in connection with the issuance, exercise or vesting of an Award under the Plan, the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced only by the net number of shares issued with respect to that Award.
      E. If any change is made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation's receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made by the Plan Administrator to (i) the maximum number and/or class of securities issuable under the Plan, (ii) the maximum number and/or class of securities for which any one person may be granted Awards under the Plan per calendar year, (iii) the number and/or class of securities for which stock option grants and restricted stock unit awards are subsequently to be made under the Director Automatic Grant Program to new and continuing Eligible Directors, (iv) the number and/or class of securities and the exercise or base price per share (or any other cash consideration payable per share) in effect under each outstanding Award under the Discretionary Grant Program and the Director Automatic Grant Program, (v) the number and/or class of securities and exercise price per share in effect under each outstanding option incorporated into this Plan from the Predecessor Plans, (vi) the number and/or class of securities subject to each outstanding Award under the Stock Issuance Program and the cash consideration (if any) payable per share thereunder, (vii) the maximum number and/or class of securities by which the share reserve may increase automatically each calendar year pursuant to the provisions of Section V.B of this Article One and (viii) the maximum number and/or class of securities that may be added to the Plan through the repurchase of unvested shares issued under the Predecessor Plans. Similar adjustments shall be made to the number of shares of Class B Common Stock issuable under the Plan and the number of shares subject to outstanding stock options for Class B shares and exercise price per share in effect under those options in the event of any similar changes to the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock. To the extent such adjustments are to be made to outstanding Awards, those adjustments shall be effected in a manner that shall preclude the enlargement or dilution of rights and benefits under those Awards. The adjustments determined by the Plan Administrator shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
      Each option shall be evidenced by one or more documents in the form approved by the Plan Administrator; , that each such document shall comply with the terms specified below. Each document evidencing an Incentive Option shall, in addition, be subject to the provisions of the Plan applicable to such options.
provided, however
      A. .
Exercise Price
      1. The exercise price per share shall be fixed by the Plan Administrator but shall not be less than eighty-five percent (85%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the option grant date.
      2. The exercise price shall become immediately due upon exercise of the option and shall be payable in one or more of the forms specified below:
      Except to the extent such sale and remittance procedure is utilized, payment of the exercise price for the purchased shares must be made on the Exercise Date.
      B. . Each option shall be exercisable at such time or times, during such period and for such number of shares as shall be determined by the Plan Administrator and set forth in the documents evidencing the option. However, no option shall have a term in excess of ten (10) years measured from the option grant date.
Exercise and Term of Options
      C. .
Effect of Termination of Service
      1. The following provisions shall govern the exercise of any options held by the Optionee at the time of cessation of Service or death:
 
2 With respect to Section 16 Insiders, the brokerage firm need only be reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation for purposes of administering such procedure.
 
      2. The Plan Administrator shall have complete discretion, exercisable either at the time an option is granted or at any time while the option remains outstanding, to:
      D. . The holder of an option shall have no shareholder rights with respect to the shares subject to the option until such person shall have exercised the option, paid the exercise price and become a holder of record of the purchased shares.
Shareholder Rights
      E. . The Plan Administrator shall have the discretion to grant options that are exercisable for unvested shares of Common Stock. Should the Optionee cease Service while holding such unvested shares, the Corporation shall have the right to repurchase, at the exercise price paid per share, any or all of those unvested shares. The terms upon which such repurchase right shall be exercisable (including the period and procedure for exercise and the appropriate vesting schedule for the purchased shares) shall be established by the Plan Administrator and set forth in the document evidencing such repurchase right.
Repurchase Rights
      F. . The transferability of options granted under the Plan shall be governed by the following provisions:
Transferability of Options
      The terms specified below, together with any additions, deletions or changes thereto imposed from time to time pursuant to the provisions of the Code governing Incentive Options, shall be applicable to all Incentive Options. Except
 
as modified by the provisions of this Section II, all the provisions of Articles One, Two and Five shall be applicable to Incentive Options. Options that are specifically designated as Non-Statutory Options when issued under the Plan shall be subject to the terms of this Section II.
not
      A. . Incentive Options may only be granted to Employees.
Eligibility
      B. . The exercise price per share shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the option grant date.
Exercise Price
      C. . The aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock (determined as of the respective date or dates of grant) for which one or more options granted to any Employee under the Plan (or any other option plan of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary) may for the first time become exercisable as Incentive Options during any one calendar year shall not exceed the sum of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000). To the extent the Employee holds two (2) or more such options which become exercisable for the first time in the same calendar year, then for purposes of the foregoing limitation on the exercisability of those options as Incentive Options, such options shall be deemed to become first exercisable in that calendar year on the basis of the chronological order in which they were granted, except to the extent otherwise provided under applicable law or regulation.
Dollar Limitation
      D. . If any Employee to whom an Incentive Option is granted is a 10% Shareholder, then the exercise price per share shall not be less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the option grant date, and the option term shall not exceed five (5) years measured from the option grant date.
10% Shareholder
      A. . The Plan Administrator shall have full power and authority, exercisable in its sole discretion, to grant stock appreciation rights in accordance with this Section III to selected Optionees or other individuals eligible to receive option grants under the Discretionary Grant Program.
Authority
      B. . Three types of stock appreciation rights shall be authorized for issuance under this Section III: (i) tandem stock appreciation rights ("Tandem Rights"), (ii) standalone stock appreciation rights ("Standalone Rights") and (iii) limited stock appreciation rights ("Limited Rights").
Types
      C. . The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant and exercise of Tandem Rights.
Tandem Rights
      D. . The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant and exercise of Standalone Rights under this Article Two:
Standalone Rights
 
      E. . The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant and exercise of Limited Rights under this Article Two:
Limited Rights
      F. . The provisions governing the exercise of Tandem, Standalone and Limited Stock Appreciation Rights following the cessation of the recipient's Service or the recipient's death shall be substantially the same as those set forth in Section I.C of this Article Two for the options granted under the Discretionary Grant Program.
Post-Service Exercise
      G. . Upon the exercise of any Tandem, Standalone or Limited Right under this Section III, the share reserve under Section V of Article One shall only be reduced by the net number of shares actually issued by the Corporation upon such exercise, and not by the gross number of shares as to which such Tandem, Standalone or Limited Right is exercised.
Net Counting
 
      A. No Award outstanding under the Discretionary Grant Program at the time of a Change in Control shall vest and become exercisable on an accelerated basis if and to the extent that: (i) such Award is, in connection with the Change in Control, assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or otherwise continued in full force and effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction, (ii) such Award is replaced with a cash retention program of the successor corporation that preserves the spread existing at the time of the Change in Control on the shares of Common Stock as to which the Award is not otherwise at that time vested and exercisable and provides for subsequent payout of that spread in accordance with the same exercise/vesting schedule applicable to those shares, or (iii) the acceleration of such Award is subject to other limitations imposed by the Plan Administrator. However, if none of the foregoing conditions are satisfied, each Award outstanding under the Discretionary Grant Program at the time of the Change in Control but not otherwise vested and exercisable as to all the shares at the time subject to that Award shall automatically accelerate so that each such Award shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control, vest and become exercisable as to all the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to that Award and may be exercised as to any or all of those shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock.
      B. All outstanding repurchase rights under the Discretionary Grant Program shall also terminate automatically, and the shares of Common Stock subject to those terminated rights shall immediately vest in full, in the event of any Change in Control, except to the extent: (i) those repurchase rights are assigned to the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or otherwise continue in full force and effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction or (ii) such accelerated vesting is precluded by other limitations imposed by the Plan Administrator.
      C. Immediately following the consummation of the Change in Control, all outstanding Awards under the Discretionary Grant Program shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or otherwise expressly continued in full force and effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction.
      D. Each option that is assumed in connection with a Change in Control or otherwise continued in effect shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Change in Control, to apply to the number and class of securities that would have been issuable to the Optionee in consummation of such Change in Control had the option been exercised immediately prior to such Change in Control. In the event outstanding Standalone Rights are to be assumed in connection with a Change in Control transaction or otherwise continued in effect, the shares of Common Stock underlying each such Standalone Right shall be adjusted immediately after such Change in Control to apply to the number and class of securities into which those shares of Common Stock would have been converted in consummation of such Change in Control had those shares actually been outstanding at that time. Appropriate adjustments to reflect such Change in Control shall also be made to (i) the exercise price payable per share under each outstanding option, the aggregate exercise price payable for such securities shall remain the same, (ii) the base price per share in effect under each outstanding Standalone Right, the aggregate base price shall remain the same, (iii) the maximum number and/or class of securities available for issuance over the remaining term of the Plan, (iv) the maximum number and/or class of securities for which any one person may be granted Awards under the Plan per calendar year, (v) the maximum number and/or class of securities by which the share reserve is to increase automatically each calendar year pursuant to the automatic share increase provisions of the Plan, (vi) the number and/or class of securities for which stock option grants and restricted stock unit awards are subsequently to be made under the Director Automatic Grant Program to new and continuing Eligible Directors and (vii) the maximum number and class of securities that may be added to the Plan through the repurchase of unvested shares issued under the Predecessor Plans. To the extent the actual holders of the Corporation's outstanding Common Stock receive cash consideration for their Common Stock in consummation of the Change in Control, the successor corporation may, in connection with the assumption or continuation of the outstanding Awards under the Discretionary Grant Program, substitute, for the securities underlying those assumed Awards, one or more shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in Control transaction.
provided
provided
      E. The Plan Administrator shall have the discretionary authority to structure one or more outstanding Awards under the Discretionary Grant Program so that those Awards shall, immediately prior to the effective date of a Change in Control or a Hostile Take-Over, vest and become exercisable as to all the shares at the time subject to those Awards and may be exercised as to any or all of those shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock, whether or not those Awards are to be assumed or otherwise continued in full force and effect pursuant to the express terms of such transaction. In addition, the Plan Administrator shall have the discretionary authority to structure one or more of the
 
Corporation's repurchase rights under the Discretionary Grant Program so that those rights shall immediately terminate at the time of such Change in Control or consummation of such Hostile Take-Over and shall not be assignable to successor corporation (or parent thereof), and the shares subject to those terminated rights shall accordingly vest in full at the time of such Change in Control or consummation of such Hostile Take-Over.
      F. The Plan Administrator shall have full power and authority to structure one or more outstanding Awards under the Discretionary Grant Program so that those Awards shall immediately vest and become exercisable as to all of the shares at the time subject to those Awards in the event the Optionee's Service is subsequently terminated by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a designated period (not to exceed eighteen (18) months) following the effective date of any Change in Control or a Hostile Take-Over in which those Awards do not otherwise vest on an accelerated basis. Any Awards so accelerated shall remain exercisable as to fully vested shares until the expiration or sooner termination of their term. In addition, the Plan Administrator may structure one or more of the Corporation's repurchase rights under the Discretionary Grant Program so that those rights shall immediately terminate with respect to any shares held by the Optionee at the time of his or her Involuntary Termination, and the shares subject to those terminated repurchase rights shall accordingly vest in full at that time.
      G. The portion of any Incentive Option accelerated in connection with a Change in Control shall remain exercisable as an Incentive Option only to the extent the applicable One Hundred Thousand Dollar ($100,000) limitation is not exceeded. To the extent such dollar limitation is exceeded, the accelerated portion of such option shall be exercisable as a Non-Statutory Option under the Federal tax laws.
      H. Awards outstanding under the Discretionary Grant Program shall in no way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.
      A. The Plan Administrator shall have the authority to effect, at any time and from time to time, with the consent of the affected holders, the cancellation of any or all outstanding options or stock appreciation rights under the Discretionary Grant Program (including outstanding options transferred from the Predecessor Plan) and to grant in exchange one or more of the following: (i) new options or stock appreciation rights covering the same or a different number of shares of Common Stock but with an exercise or base price per share not less than the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the new grant date or (ii) cash or shares of Common Stock, whether vested or unvested, equal in value to the value of the cancelled options or stock appreciation rights.
      B. The Plan Administrator shall also have the authority, exercisable at any time and from time to time, with the consent of the affected holders, to reduce the exercise or base price of one or more outstanding stock options or stock appreciation rights to a price not less than the then current Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock or issue new stock options or stock appreciation rights with a lower exercise or base price in immediate cancellation of outstanding stock options or stock appreciation rights with a higher exercise or base price.
 
      A. . Shares of Common Stock may be issued under the Stock Issuance Program through direct and immediate issuances without any intervening option grants. Each such stock issuance shall be evidenced by a Stock Issuance Agreement that complies with the terms specified below. Shares of Common Stock may also be issued under the Stock Issuance Program pursuant to share right awards or restricted stock units, awarded by and at the discretion of the Plan Administrator, that entitle the recipients to receive the shares underlying those awards or units upon the attainment of designated performance goals and/or the satisfaction of specified Service requirements or upon the expiration of a designated time period following the vesting of those awards or units.
Issuances
      B. .
Issue Price
      1. The price per share at which shares of Common Stock may be issued under the Stock Issuance Program shall be fixed by the Plan Administrator, but shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the issuance date.
      2. Shares of Common Stock may be issued under the Stock Issuance Program for any of the following items of consideration that the Plan Administrator may deem appropriate in each individual instance:
      C. .
Vesting Provisions
      1. Shares of Common Stock issued under the Stock Issuance Program may, in the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be fully and immediately vested upon issuance or may vest in one or more installments over the Participant's period of Service and/or upon attainment of specified performance objectives. The elements of the vesting schedule applicable to any unvested shares of Common Stock issued under the Stock Issuance Program shall be determined by the Plan Administrator and incorporated into the Stock Issuance Agreement. Shares of Common Stock may also be issued under the Stock Issuance Program pursuant to share right awards or restricted stock units that entitle the recipients to receive the shares underlying those awards and/or units upon the attainment of designated performance goals or the satisfaction of specified Service requirements or upon the expiration of a designated time period following the vesting of those awards or units, including (without limitation) a deferred distribution date following the termination of the Participant's Service.
      2. The Plan Administrator shall also have the discretionary authority, consistent with Code Section 162(m), to structure one or more Awards under the Stock Issuance Program so that the shares of Common Stock subject to those Awards shall vest (or vest and become issuable) upon the achievement of certain pre-established corporate performance goals based on one or more of the following criteria: (i) return on total shareholder equity; (ii) net income per share of Common Stock; (iii) net income or operating income; (iv) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and stock-compensation costs, or operating income before depreciation and amortization; (v) sales or revenue targets; (vi) return on assets, capital or investment; (vii) cash flow; (viii) market share; (ix) cost reduction goals; (x) budget comparisons; (xi) implementation or completion of projects or processes strategic or critical to the Corporation's business operations; (xii) measures of customer satisfaction; (xiii) any combination of, or a specified increase in, any of the foregoing; and (xiv) the formation of joint ventures, research and development collaborations, marketing or customer service collaborations, or the completion of other corporate transactions intended to enhance the Corporation's revenue or profitability or expand its customer base; , that for purposes of items (ii), (iii) and (vii) above, the Plan Administrator may, at the time the Awards are made, specify certain adjustments to such items as reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP"), which will exclude from the calculation of those performance goals one or more of the following: certain charges related to acquisitions, stock-based compensation, employer payroll tax expense on certain stock option exercises, settlement costs, restructuring costs, gains or losses on strategic investments, non-
provided, however
 
operating gains or losses, certain other non-cash charges, valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, and the related income tax effects, purchases of property and equipment, and any extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30, provided that such adjustments are in conformity with those reported by the Corporation on a non-GAAP basis. In addition, such performance goals may be based upon the attainment of specified levels of the Corporation's performance under one or more of the measures described above relative to the performance of other entities and may also be based on the performance of any of the Corporation's business groups or divisions thereof or any Parent or Subsidiary. Performance goals may include a minimum threshold level of performance below which no award will be earned, levels of performance at which specified portions of an award will be earned, and a maximum level of performance at which an award will be fully earned. The Plan Administrator may provide that, if the actual level of attainment for any performance objective is between two specified levels, the amount of the award attributable to that performance objective shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis.
      3. Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property (including money paid other than as a regular cash dividend) that the Participant may have the right to receive with respect to the Participant's unvested shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend, stock split, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation's receipt of consideration shall be issued subject to (i) the same vesting requirements applicable to the Participant's unvested shares of Common Stock and (ii) such escrow arrangements as the Plan Administrator shall deem appropriate.
      4. The Participant shall have full shareholder rights with respect to any shares of Common Stock issued to the Participant under the Stock Issuance Program, whether or not the Participant's interest in those shares is vested. Accordingly, the Participant shall have the right to vote such shares and to receive any regular cash dividends paid on such shares. The Participant shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the shares of Common Stock subject to a restricted stock unit or share right award until that award vests and the shares of Common Stock are actually issued thereunder. However, dividend-equivalent units may be paid or credited, either in cash or in actual or phantom shares of Common Stock, on outstanding restricted stock unit or share right awards, subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may deem appropriate.
      5. Should the Participant cease to remain in Service while holding one or more unvested shares of Common Stock issued under the Stock Issuance Program or should the performance objectives not be attained with respect to one or more such unvested shares of Common Stock, then those shares shall be immediately surrendered to the Corporation for cancellation, and the Participant shall have no further shareholder rights with respect to those shares. To the extent the surrendered shares were previously issued to the Participant for consideration paid in cash, cash equivalent or otherwise, the Corporation shall repay to the Participant the same amount and form of consideration as the Participant paid for the surrendered shares.
      6. The Plan Administrator may in its discretion waive the surrender and cancellation of one or more unvested shares of Common Stock that would otherwise occur upon the cessation of the Participant's Service or the non-attainment of the performance objectives applicable to those shares. Any such waiver shall result in the immediate vesting of the Participant's interest in the shares of Common Stock as to which the waiver applies. Such waiver may be effected at any time, whether before or after the Participant's cessation of Service or the attainment or non-attainment of the applicable performance objectives. However, no vesting requirements tied to the attainment of performance objectives may be waived with respect to shares that were intended at the time of issuance to qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m), except in the event of the Participant's Involuntary Termination or as otherwise provided in Section II.E of this Article Three.
      7. Outstanding share right awards or restricted stock units under the Stock Issuance Program shall automatically terminate, and no shares of Common Stock shall actually be issued in satisfaction of those awards or units, if the performance goals or Service requirements established for such awards or units are not attained or satisfied. The Plan Administrator, however, shall have the discretionary authority to issue vested shares of Common Stock under one or more outstanding share right awards or restricted stock units as to which the designated performance goals or Service requirements have not been attained or satisfied. However, no vesting requirements tied to the attainment of performance goals may be waived with respect to awards or units which were at the time of grant intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m), except in the event of the Participant's Involuntary Termination or as otherwise provided in Section II.E of this Article Three.
 
      A. All of the Corporation's outstanding repurchase rights under the Stock Issuance Program shall terminate automatically, and all the shares of Common Stock subject to those terminated rights shall immediately vest in full, in the event of any Change in Control, except to the extent (i) those repurchase rights are to be assigned to the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or otherwise continued in full force and effect pursuant to the express terms of the Change in Control transaction or (ii) such accelerated vesting is precluded by other limitations imposed in the Stock Issuance Agreement.
      B. Each outstanding Award under the Stock Issuance Program that is assumed in connection with a Change in Control or otherwise continued in effect shall be adjusted immediately after the consummation of that Change in Control to apply to the number and class of securities into which the shares of Common Stock subject to the Award immediately prior to the Change in Control would have been converted in consummation of such Change in Control had those shares actually been outstanding at that time, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the cash consideration (if any) payable per share thereunder, the aggregate amount of such consideration shall remain the same. If any such Award is not so assumed or otherwise continued in effect or replaced with a cash retention program which preserves the Fair Market Value of the shares underlying the Award at the time of the Change in Control and provides for the subsequent payout of that value in accordance with the vesting schedule in effect for the Award at the time of such Change in Control, such Award shall vest, and the shares of Common Stock subject to that Award shall be issued as fully-vested shares, immediately prior to the consummation of the Change in Control.
provided
      C. The Plan Administrator shall have the discretionary authority to structure one or more unvested Awards under the Stock Issuance Program so that the shares of Common Stock subject to those Awards shall automatically vest (or vest and become issuable) in whole or in part immediately upon the occurrence of a Change in Control or upon the subsequent termination of the Participant's Service by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a designated period (not to exceed eighteen (18) months) following the effective date of that Change in Control transaction.
      D. The Plan Administrator shall also have the discretionary authority to structure one or more unvested Awards under the Stock Issuance Program so that the shares of Common Stock subject to those Awards shall automatically vest (or vest and become issuable) in whole or in part immediately upon the occurrence of a Hostile Take-Over or upon the subsequent termination of the Participant's Service by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a designated period (not to exceed eighteen (18) months) following the effective date of that Hostile Take-Over.
      E. The Plan Administrator's authority under Paragraphs C and D of this Section II shall also extend to any Award intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m), even though the automatic vesting of those Awards pursuant to Paragraph C or D of this Section II may result in their loss of performance-based status under Code Section 162(m).
 
      This Article Four of the Plan has been amended and restated effective as of February 24, 2006, subject to shareholder approval at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. All options and restricted stock units outstanding under the Director Automatic Grant Program on February 24, 2006 shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the existing terms of the agreements evidencing those options and restricted stock units, and no change in this amended and restated Article Four shall affect those options or restricted stock units. In the event the shareholders do not approve the restated provisions of this Article Four at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the provisions of Article Four as in effect immediately prior to this amendment and restatement shall remain in full force and effect.
      A. . Grants under this amended and restated Article Four shall be made on the dates specified below:
Grant Dates
      B. .
Exercise Price
      1. The exercise price per share for each option granted under this Article Four shall be equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the option grant date.
      2. The exercise price shall be payable in one or more of the alternative forms authorized under the Discretionary Grant Program. Except to the extent the sale and remittance procedure specified thereunder is utilized, payment of the exercise price for the purchased shares must be made on the Exercise Date.
      C. . Each option granted under this Article Four shall have a term of ten (10) years measured from the option grant date.
Option Term
      D. . Each option granted under this Article Four shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the option shares. However, any unvested shares purchased under the option shall be subject to repurchase by the Corporation, at the exercise price paid per share, upon the Optionee's cessation of Board service prior to vesting in those shares. The shares subject to each grant shall vest, and the Corporation's repurchase right shall lapse,
Exercise and Vesting of Options
 
in a series of one or more successive equal quarterly installments over the period measured from the date of the option grant. The quarterly vesting dates shall be the 5th day of February, May, August and November each year, with the first such quarterly vesting date to be at least thirty (30) days after the date of the option grant and the final vesting date to be the of (i) the last quarterly vesting date determined for such option in accordance with the foregoing specified dates or (ii) the day immediately preceding the date of the first annual meeting of shareholders following the grant date of such option. The Optionee shall not vest in any additional shares subject to such option following his or her cessation of service as a Board member; , that should such cessation of Board service occur by reason of the Optionee's death or Permanent Disability, all the shares purchased or purchasable under that option shall immediately vest.
earlier
provided, however
      E.  Each restricted stock unit award shall vest in a series of one or more successive equal quarterly installments over the period measured from the date of such award. The quarterly vesting dates shall be the 5th day of February, May, August and November each year, with the first such quarterly vesting date to be at least thirty (30) days after the date of the award and the final vesting date to be the of (i) the last quarterly vesting date determined for such award in accordance with the foregoing specified dates or (ii) the day immediately preceding the date of the first annual meeting of shareholders following the date of such award. The Board member shall not vest in any additional restricted stock units following his or her cessation of service as a Board member; , that each restricted stock unit award held by an Eligible Director under the Director Automatic Grant Program will immediately vest in full upon his or her cessation of Board service by reason of death or Permanent Disability. As the restricted stock units under the Director Automatic Grant Program vest in one or more installments, the shares of Common Stock underlying those vested units shall be promptly issued.
Vesting of Restricted Stock Units and Issuance of Shares.
earlier
provided, however
      F. . Each option granted under the Director Automatic Grant Program may be assigned in whole or in part during the Optionee's lifetime to one or more Family Members of the Optionee or to a trust established exclusively for Optionee and/or for one or more such Family Members, to the extent such assignment is in connection with the Optionee's estate plan or pursuant to a domestic relations order. The assigned portion may only be exercised by the person or persons who acquire a proprietary interest in the option pursuant to the assignment. The terms applicable to the assigned portion shall be the same as those in effect for the option immediately prior to such assignment and shall be set forth in such documents issued to the assignee as the Plan Administrator may deem appropriate. The Optionee may also designate one or more persons as the beneficiary or beneficiaries of his or her outstanding options under this Article Four, and those options shall, in accordance with such designation, automatically be transferred to such beneficiary or beneficiaries upon the Optionee's death while holding those options. Such beneficiary or beneficiaries shall take the transferred options subject to all the terms and conditions of the applicable agreement evidencing each such transferred option, including (without limitation) the limited time period during which the option may be exercised following the Optionee's death.
Limited Transferability of Options
      G. . The following provisions shall govern the exercise of any outstanding options under the Director Automatic Grant Program held by the Optionee at the time the Optionee ceases to serve as a Board member:
Termination of Board Service
 
      A. In the event of any Change in Control while the Eligible Director remains a Board member, the following provisions shall apply:
      B. In the event of a Hostile Take-Over while the Eligible Director remains a Board member, the following provisions shall apply:
      C. All outstanding repurchase rights under the Director Automatic Grant Program shall automatically terminate, and the shares of Common Stock subject to those terminated rights shall immediately vest in full, in the event of any Change in Control or Hostile Take-Over.
      D. Upon the occurrence of a Hostile Take-Over, the Eligible Director shall have a thirty (30)-day period in which to surrender to the Corporation each of his or her outstanding option grants under the Director Automatic Grant Program. Such Eligible Director shall in return be entitled to a cash distribution from the Corporation in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the Take-Over Price of the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to each surrendered option (whether or not the Eligible Director is otherwise at the time vested in those shares) over (ii) the aggregate exercise price payable for such shares. Such cash distribution shall be paid within five (5) days following the surrender of the option to the Corporation. No approval or consent of the Board or any Plan Administrator shall be required at the time of the actual option surrender and cash distribution.
 
      E. Each option that is assumed in connection with a Change in Control or otherwise continued in full force and effect shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Change in Control, to apply to the number and class of securities that would have been issuable to the Optionee in consummation of such Change in Control had the option been exercised immediately prior to such Change in Control. Appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the exercise price payable per share under each outstanding option, the aggregate exercise price payable for such securities shall remain the same. To the extent the actual holders of the Corporation's outstanding Common Stock receive cash consideration for their Common Stock in consummation of the Change in Control transaction, the successor corporation may, in connection with the assumption of the outstanding options under the Director Automatic Grant Program, substitute one or more shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in Control transaction.
provided
      F. The existence of outstanding Awards under the Director Automatic Grant Program shall in no way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.
      The remaining terms of each option granted under the Director Automatic Grant Program shall be the same as the terms in effect for option grants made under the Discretionary Grant Program.
 
      A. The Corporation's obligation to deliver shares of Common Stock upon the issuance, exercise or vesting of Awards under the Plan shall be subject to the satisfaction of all applicable federal, state and local income and employment tax withholding requirements.
      B. The Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, provide any or all Optionees or Participants to whom Awards are made under the Plan (other than the Awards made under the Director Automatic Grant Program) with the right to utilize either or both of the following methods to satisfy all or part of the Withholding Taxes to which those holders may become subject in connection with the issuance, exercise or vesting of those Awards.
      Unvested shares issued under the Plan may, in the Plan Administrator's discretion, be held in escrow by the Corporation until the Participant's interest in such shares vests or may be issued directly to the Participant with restrictive legends on the certificates evidencing those unvested shares.
      A. The Plan became effective immediately on the Plan Effective Date. Awards may be granted under the Discretionary Grant Program, the Stock Issuance Program and the Director Automatic Grant Program at any time on or after the Plan Effective Date.
      B. The Plan shall serve as the successor to the Predecessor Plans, and no further option grants or direct stock issuances shall be made under the Predecessor Plans after April 16, 1998. All options outstanding under the Predecessor Plans on April 16, 1998 were incorporated into the Plan at that time and are treated as outstanding options under the Plan. However, each outstanding option so incorporated shall continue to be governed solely by the terms of the documents evidencing such option, and no provision of the Plan shall be deemed to affect or otherwise modify the rights or obligations of the holders of such incorporated options with respect to their acquisition of shares of Common Stock.
      C. One or more provisions of the Plan, including (without limitation) the option/vesting acceleration provisions of Article Two relating to Changes in Control and Hostile Take-Overs, may, in the Plan Administrator's discretion, be extended to one or more options incorporated from the Predecessor Plans that do not otherwise contain such provisions.
      D. The Plan was amended and restated by the Board on February 24, 2006 (the "2006 Restatement"), subject to shareholder approval at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to (i) restructure the Director Automatic Grant Program in effect for new and continuing Eligible Directors to revise the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the combined stock option grant and restricted stock unit award made to each continuing Eligible Director, provide for a pro-rated annual grant of options and restricted stock units for Eligible Directors who first commence Service as such on a date that is not the day of an annual meeting of shareholders, and eliminate the automatic four-year renewal grants for continuing Board members and (ii) allow for certain adjustments to be made to any cash flow performance goals established under the Stock Issuance Program. The revisions to the Director Automatic Grant Program and Stock
 
Issuance Program shall not become effective unless the shareholders approve the 2006 Restatement at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Should shareholder approval not be obtained at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the proposed revisions to the Director Automatic Grant and Stock Issuance Programs will not be implemented. The Plan will, however, continue in effect, and Awards will continue to be made under the Plan until all the shares available for issuance under the Plan have been issued pursuant to Awards made under the Plan. In addition, the Director Automatic Option Grant Program for Eligible Directors will continue in effect in accordance with the provisions of that program as they existed immediately prior to the February 24, 2006 revisions.
      E. The Plan shall terminate upon the to occur of (i) February 28, 2014, (ii) the date on which all shares available for issuance under the Plan shall have been issued as fully-vested shares or (iii) the termination of all outstanding Awards in connection with a Change in Control. Should the Plan terminate February 28, 2014, all Awards outstanding at that time shall continue to have force and effect in accordance with the provisions of the documents evidencing such Awards.
earliest
      A. The Board shall have complete and exclusive power and authority to amend or modify the Plan in any or all respects. However, no such amendment or modification shall adversely affect the rights and obligations with respect to Awards at the time outstanding under the Plan unless the Optionee or the Participant consents to such amendment or modification. In addition, shareholder approval will be required for any amendment to the Plan that (i) materially increases the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan, (ii) materially expands the class of individuals eligible to receive option grants or other awards under the Plan, (iii) materially increases the benefits accruing to the Optionees and Participants under the Plan or materially reduces the price at which shares of Common Stock may be issued or purchased under the Plan, (iv) materially extends the term of the Plan or (v) expands the types of awards available for issuance under the Plan.
      B. Awards may be made under the Plan that involve shares of Common Stock in excess of the number of shares then available for issuance under the Plan, provided no shares shall actually be issued pursuant to those Awards until the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan is sufficiently increased either by (1) the automatic annual share increase provisions of Section V.B. of Article One or (2) shareholder approval of an amendment of the Plan sufficiently increasing the share reserve. If shareholder approval is required and is not obtained within twelve (12) months after the date of the first such excess Award, then all Awards made on the basis of such excess shares shall terminate and cease to be outstanding.
      Any cash proceeds received by the Corporation from the sale of shares of Common Stock under the Plan shall be used for general corporate purposes.
      A. The implementation of the Plan, the grant of any Award and the issuance of shares of Common Stock in connection with the issuance, exercise or vesting of any Award made under the Plan shall be subject to the Corporation's procurement of all approvals and permits required by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over the Plan, the Awards made under the Plan and the shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to those Awards.
      B. No shares of Common Stock or other assets shall be issued or delivered under the Plan unless and until there shall have been compliance with all applicable requirements of Federal and state securities laws, including the filing and effectiveness of the Form  registration statement for the shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan, and all applicable listing requirements of any stock exchange (or the NASDAQ National Market, if applicable) on which Common Stock is then listed for trading.
S-8
      Nothing in the Plan shall confer upon the Optionee or the Participant any right to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining such person) or of the Optionee or the Participant, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate such person's Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause.
 
      The following definitions shall be in effect under the Plan:
 
 
 


