FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20070315171209.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(c) On March 11, 2007 Broadcom Corporation entered into a letter agreement with Eric K. Brandt (the "Agreement"), pursuant to which Mr. Brandt will serve as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Broadcom, reporting to its President and Chief Executive Officer. The company currently anticipates that Mr. Brandt will commence employment on a full-time basis in this role on or about March 29, 2007, and will continue to be employed on an at-will basis until either party gives notice of termination. Mr. Brandt served as Chief Executive Officer of Avanir Pharmaceuticals from September 2005 until March 2007. Prior to joining Avanir, Mr. Brandt served as Executive Vice President  Finance and Technical Operations and Chief Financial Officer of Allergan, Inc. in Irvine, Calif., where he also held a number of other senior positions following his arrival there in 1999. Previously, Mr. Brandt spent 10 years with The Boston Consulting Group in Boston, Mass., most recently serving in the rol e of Vice President and Partner and as a senior member of the firms heath care practice. Mr. Brandt currently serves as a director of Dentsply International, Inc. and of Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., where he chairs the audit committee. On March 14, 2007 Broadcom announced that Mr. Brandt will be joining the company as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The full text of the press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. (e) Under the Agreement, Mr. Brandt will receive a base salary at an annual rate of $350,000. Mr. Brandt will also be eligible to participate in the companys annual cash bonus program, with his initial target bonus under that program to be 40% of his base salary. In the event Mr. Brandts commencement of services on a full-time basis for Broadcom (the "Start Date ") occurs after April 2, 2007, Mr. Brandts target and actual cash bonus for 2007 will be prorated to take into account the portion of the calendar year that he was actually employed by the company. If his Start Date occurs on or before April 2, 2007, Mr. Brandts target and actual cash bonus for 2007 will not be prorated. Within the first 30 days after the Start Date, Mr. Brandt will also receive a sign-on bonus from Broadcom in the amount of $150,000. Such bonus is subject to repayment in the event that Mr. Brandt voluntarily terminates his employment, other than for good reason (as defined in the Agreement), within 24 months after the Start Date. The Agreement also provides for benefits commensurate with those offered to other executive employees of Broadcom. Pursuant to the Agreement, Mr. Brandt will be granted an option to purchase 175,000 shares of Broadcoms Class A Common Stock with an exercise price per share equal to the closing selling price per share of Broadcoms Class A Common Stock as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the date of grant. The option will vest and become ex ercisable with respect to twenty-five percent (25%) of the underlying shares upon the first anniversary of the Start Date, and the remaining seventy-five percent (75%) of the underlying shares will vest and become exercisable in a series of 36 successive equal monthly installments upon Mr. Brandts completion of each additional month of service with Broadcom following such anniversary date. In addition, Mr. Brandt will receive an award of 87,500 restricted stock units to acquire an equal number of shares of Broadcoms Class A Common Stock with no cash payment on his part other than applicable income and employment taxes. The restricted stock units will vest in 16 successive equal quarterly installments over the 48-month period of service following the date of such award. The stock option and restricted stock units will be granted on or about May 5, 2007, provided that the trading window for stock trades by executives as determined under the companys policies is open on that date. If Broadcom terminates Mr. Brandts employment other than for cause or disability (each as defined in the Agreement) or if Mr. Brandt terminates his employment with Broadcom for good reason within nine months following either the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer or a change in control (each an "Event"), then he will receive (i) one years additional salary at his then current rate; (ii) continuation of certain employee benefits for one year after the date of termination; (iii) a prorated portion of any cash bonus for which he would otherwise be eligible for the year in which such termination occurs; and (iv) accelerated vesting of his outstanding stock options, RSUs and any other equity awards as if he had completed an additional 24 months of service with the company, which options and other awards will remain exercisable for 24 months from the date of termination (but not beyond the expiration of their respective maximum terms). The Agreement also provides that if Mr. Brandt 9;s employment is terminated at any time during its term by reason of his death or disability, his outstanding unvested stock options and any other unvested equity awards will immediately vest in full. The terms of the Agreement apply to all Broadcom stock options, RSUs or other equity awards made to Mr. Brandt.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. 99.1Press Release dated March 14, 2007 of the Registrant.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE, Calif.  March 14, 2007  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM), a global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications, today announced that veteran financial executive Eric K. Brandt will join the company later this month as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Mr. Brandt, a former chief financial officer of Allergan, Inc. and most recently chief executive officer of Avanir Pharmaceuticals, was selected after an extensive global search following the retirement last September of former CFO William J. Ruehle. Since that time, Bruce E. Kiddoo, Broadcom's Vice President and Corporate Controller, has served as Acting Chief Financial Officer.
"Eric Brandt brings a unique perspective to the senior financial position at Broadcom, having served both as an award-winning CFO of multibillion dollar specialty pharmaceutical leader Allergan and as CEO of an entrepreneurial enterprise like Avanir," said Scott A. McGregor, Broadcom's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Eric possesses extensive experience in research and development and intellectual property-intensive industries  a perfect complement to our own engineering-driven organization. We look forward to leveraging his unique background to help shape the long-term strategic direction of Broadcom and to lead our strong financial team."
Prior to joining Avanir in September 2005, Mr. Brandt served as Executive Vice President  Finance and Technical Operations and Chief Financial Officer of Allergan in Irvine, Calif., where he also held a number of other senior positions following his arrival there in 1999. While at Allergan, Mr. Brandt was twice named one of the "Best CFOs in America" in magazine's annual survey of portfolio managers and brokerage firm research analysts.
Institutional Investor
Previously, Mr. Brandt spent 10 years with The Boston Consulting Group in Boston, Mass., most recently serving in the role of Vice President and Partner and as a senior member of the firm's heath care practice, where he worked with several of the largest global pharmaceutical companies on issues such as business and market strategy, acquisitions, manufacturing strategy, and optimizing research and development processes. In addition, while at BCG he led the North American operations practice and had experience advising computer and telecommunications clients.
Mr. Brandt, 44, holds a B.S. in Chemical Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. He is a director of Dentsply International, Inc. and of Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., where he chairs the audit committee.
"I'm very excited to join an industry-leading company that is fast moving, driven to succeed and has tremendous opportunity ahead of it," said Mr. Brandt. "Having spent numerous years working with large, global companies as well as in more entrepreneurial settings, I look forward to bringing my experience and skills to a company that combines both, while at the same time working with a world-class team of individuals whose innovative technology and products are changing the way the world communicates."
Mr. McGregor also noted Mr. Kiddoo's significant contribution to Broadcom in the role of Acting Chief Financial Officer. "Bruce has done an amazing job of seamlessly stepping into the Acting CFO position and leading our entire finance and investor relations team over the last several months," he said. "The Board and I extend our deep gratitude to Bruce for the time and effort he has put into this critical responsibility and look forward to his continuing contributions as we move forward."
Mr. Kiddoo will continue to serve as Acting Chief Financial Officer until Mr. Brandt's arrival and thereafter will continue as Vice President and Corporate Controller.
About Broadcom
Broadcom Corporation is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Broadcom
products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. We provide the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art, system-on-a-chip and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything
.
Broadcom is one of the world's largest fabless semiconductor companies, with 2006 revenue of $3.67 billion, and holds over 1,950 U.S. and 750 foreign patents, more than 5,900 additional pending patent applications, and one of the broadest intellectual property portfolios addressing both wired and wireless transmission of voice, video and data.
Broadcom is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., and has offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at +1.949.926.5900 or at .
www.broadcom.com
:
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release speak only as of this date. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason.
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward- looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.


