FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20080520162454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On May 14, 2008, Henry Samueli, Ph.D., Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Technical Officer of Broadcom Corporation, and David A. Dull, Senior Vice President, Business Affairs and General Counsel, decided to take leaves of absence as executive officers of Broadcom pending resolution of a civil complaint filed against them by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), as described more fully below. Dr. Samueli and Mr. Dull will continue to serve as non-officer employees of the company, reporting to President and Chief Executive Officer, Scott A. McGregor, in their respective areas of expertise. While on their leaves of absence, they will not be involved in matters dealing with corporate governance, the company's financial reporting or public disclosures; they will no longer have the power to bind the company under agreements and they will not have any other powers or authority of an executive officer. Also pending resolution of the civil action, effective as of May 14, 20 08, Dr. Samueli has resigned as a member of the Board of Directors (the "Board") and as Chairman of the Board of Broadcom. Dr. Samueli will no longer be standing for election to the Board at the company's 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Annual Meeting") and, as a result, there will only be seven nominees for election to the Board at the Annual Meeting. The Board has named John E. Major, an independent director of the company since January 2003, to serve as non-executive Chairman of the Board. On May 20, 2008 Broadcom filed a supplement to its proxy statement for the Annual Meeting to notify shareholders of the change in the composition of the companys Board and the fact that Dr. Samueli will not be standing for re-election to the Board at the Annual Meeting.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On May 19, 2008 the Board of Directors of Broadcom elected Alvin G. Segel, a senior partner of the law firm of Irell & Manella, LLP, as Acting General Counsel and Secretary of the company. Mr. Segels practice focuses on mergers and acquisitions, public offerings and private placements of securities, securities law and corporate governance, business, and related fields. Mr. Segel joined Irell & Manella in 1970. From 1982 through 1988, he served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Wickes Companies, Inc., a multi-billion dollar diversified manufacturer and retailer. Mr. Segel has served as a member of Irell & Manella's Executive Committee since 1990. He received his J.D. from Columbia Law School. ************ On May 14, 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Central District of California (Case No. SACV08-539 CJC (RNBx)) against Dr. Samueli, Mr. Dull and two other former executive officers of Broadcom, relating to the Commissions previously-disclosed investigation of the companys historical stock option granting practices. The Commissions civil complaint alleges that Dr. Samueli and Mr. Dull, along with the other defendants, violated the anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities laws, falsified books and records, and caused the company to report false financial results. The Commissions complaint seeks to: (1) enjoin the defendants from future violations of the securities laws; (2) require Mr. Dull and another defendant to disgorge any ill-gotten gains and pay prejudgment interest; (3) require all defendants to pay civil monetary penalties; (4) require two defendants to disgorge bonuses and stock sales profits pursuant to Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; (5) bar all defendants from serving as officers or directors of a public company; and (6) provide other appropriate relief. As previously disclosed, in April 2008, Broadcom entered into a settlemen t with the Commission relating to its historical stock option granting practices. Without admitting or denying the Commission's allegations, Broadcom agreed to pay a civil penalty of $12 million. The U.S. District Court for the Central District of California approved the settlement at the end of April 2008, thus concluding the SEC's investigation of this matter with respect to Broadcom. The U.S. Attorneys Office for the Central District of California continues to evaluate whether it will bring criminal charges against Dr. Samueli and Mr. Dull, among others, in connection with its investigation, and has not yet made a final decision. The company continues to cooperate with the Department of Justice in its investigation.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


