FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20080124161237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
On January 24, 2008 Broadcom Corporation issued a press release announcing unaudited financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to our GAAP results, Broadcom reports adjusted net income and net income per share, referred to respectively as "non-GAAP net income" and "non-GAAP net income per share." Non-GAAP net income consists of net income excluding stock-based compensation expense, as well as charges related to acquisitions and charges and gains that are driven primarily by discrete events that management does not consider to be directly related to our core operating performance. Non-GAAP net income per share is calculated by dividing non-GAAP net income by non-GAAP weighted average shares outstanding (diluted). For purposes of calculating non-GAAP net income per share, the calculation of GAAP weighted average shares outstanding (diluted) is adjusted to exclude the benefits of compensation costs attributable to future services and not yet recognized in the financial statements that are treated as proceeds assumed to be used to repurchase shares under the GAAP treasury stock method, as described in greater detail below.
Broadcom believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share provides important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports, and also facilitates comparisons with other companies in our industry, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results. Management has historically used non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that non-GAAP net income continues to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and the valuation of our company.
Internally, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
Table of Contents
Non-GAAP net income reflects net income adjusted for the following items:
The calculation of non-GAAP net income per share is adjusted for the following item:
Table of Contents
Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share are not calculated in accordance with GAAP, and should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the costs associated with the operations of our business as determined in accordance with GAAP. As a result, you should not consider these measures in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of Broadcom's results as reported under GAAP. Broadcom expects to continue to incur expenses similar to the non-GAAP adjustments described above, and exclusion of these items from our non-GAAP net income should not be construed as an inference that these costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Some of the limitations in relying on non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share are:
Item 9.01 Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE, Calif.  January 24, 2008  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today reported unaudited financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2007.
Net revenue for the fourth quarter of 2007 was $1.027 billion, an increase of 8.1% compared with the $950.0 million reported for the third quarter of 2007 and an increase of 11.2% compared with the $923.5 million reported for the fourth quarter of 2006. Net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the fourth quarter of 2007 was $90.3 million, or $.16 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $27.8 million, or $.05 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2007, and GAAP net income of $45.1 million, or $.08 per share (diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2006.
Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $3.78 billion, an increase of 3.0% compared with the $3.67 billion reported for the year ended December 31, 2006. Net income computed in accordance with GAAP for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $213.3 million, or $.37 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $379.0 million, or $.64 per share (diluted), for the year ended December 31, 2006.
In addition to GAAP results, Broadcom reports adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share, referred to respectively as "non-GAAP net income" and "non-GAAP
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2007 Results Page 2
net income per share." A discussion of Broadcom's use of these non-GAAP financial measures is set forth below, and reconciliations of GAAP net income to non-GAAP net income for the three months and years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, appear in the financial statements portion of this release.
Non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of 2007, computed with the adjustments to GAAP reporting set forth in the attached reconciliation, was $200.8 million, or $.34 per share (diluted), compared with non-GAAP net income of $164.5 million, or $.27 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2007, and $184.9 million, or $.31 per share (diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2006.
Non-GAAP net income for the year ended December 31, 2007, computed with the adjustments to GAAP reporting set forth in the attached reconciliation, was $702.5 million, or $1.17 per share (diluted), compared with non-GAAP net income of $822.5 million, or $1.35 per share (diluted), for the year ended December 31, 2006.
Net revenue for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2007 includes royalties in the amount of $31.8 million from a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007.
"2007 ended strongly as Broadcom generated record revenue for the fourth quarter and the full year, driven by the ramp in new product cycles occurring in the Bluetooth, wireless LAN and digital TV markets," said Scott McGregor, Broadcom's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Broadcom remains a product cycle driven company, and to continue this product cycle momentum into the future, we made a number of strategic acquisitions and significant internal investments in 2007. We believe that as the convergence of technologies, products and markets continues, the winners will be the companies that possess all of the communication technologies required to build these next generation products. Broadcom remains well positioned to benefit from this trend."
"As we look into 2008, we believe that Bluetooth, wireless LAN and digital TV will continue to be key revenue drivers, plus we look forward to the emergence of new product areas such as HD DVD, cellular and GPS, in addition to continued growth opportunities within our
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2007 Results Page 3
traditional end markets, such as switching and set-top boxes. While Broadcom will continue to invest to bring these and other new products to market, we have tightened our processes and made additional strategic portfolio management decisions in the fourth quarter to help moderate expense growth across 2008, with the goal of trending back towards our long-term business model."
Conference Call Information
As previously announced, Broadcom will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its fourth quarter and year 2007 financial results and current financial prospects today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (4:45 p.m. Eastern Time). The company will broadcast the conference call via webcast over the Internet. To listen to the webcast, or to view the financial or other statistical information required by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation G, please visit the Investors section of the Broadcom website at . The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time, Thursday, February 7, 2008.
www.broadcom.com/investors
The financial results included in this release are unaudited. The complete, audited financial statements of the company for the year ended December 31, 2007 will be included in Broadcom's Annual Report on Form 10-K, to be filed with the SEC later this month.
Discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP net income consists of net income excluding stock-based compensation expense as well as charges related to acquisitions and charges and gains that are driven primarily by discrete events that management does not consider to be directly related to the company's core operating performance. Non-GAAP net income per share is calculated by dividing non-GAAP net income by non-GAAP weighted average shares outstanding (diluted). For purposes of calculating non-GAAP net income per share, the calculation of GAAP weighted average shares outstanding (diluted) is adjusted to exclude the benefits of compensation costs attributable to future services and not yet recognized in the financial statements that are treated as proceeds assumed to be used to repurchase shares under the GAAP treasury stock method.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2007 Results Page 4
Broadcom believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share provides important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to the company's financial condition and results of operations. For further information regarding why Broadcom believes that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors, the specific manner in which management uses these measures, and some of the limitations associated with the use of these measures, please refer to the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC. The Form 8-K is available on the SEC's website at or under the "Financial Information" tab of the Investors section of the Broadcom website described above.
www.sec.gov
About Broadcom
Broadcom Corporation is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Broadcom products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. We provide the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art, system-on-a-chip and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
Broadcom is one of the world's largest fabless semiconductor companies, with unaudited 2007 revenue of $3.78 billion, and holds over 2,500 U.S. and 1,000 foreign patents, more than 7,400 additional pending patent applications, and one of the broadest intellectual property portfolios addressing both wired and wireless transmission of voice, video and data.
Broadcom is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., and has offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at +1.949.926.5000 or at .
www.broadcom.com
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2007 Results Page 5
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risk that the unaudited results reported in this press release could be modified as the audit of our 2007 financial statements is completed; general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, trends in the broadband communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated, and possible disruption in commercial activities related to terrorist activity or armed conflict; the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; the gain or loss of a key customer, design win or order; the rate at which our present and future customers and end-users adopt Broadcom's technologies and products in our target markets; our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products and services or demand for new products requested by our customers; our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner; our dependence on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue; intellectual property disputes and customer indemnification claims and other types of litigation risk; risks and uncertainties resulting from Broadcom's recent equity award review, including potential claims and proceedings related to such matters, such as shareholder litigation and any action by the SEC, U.S. Attorney's Office or other governmental agency that could result in civil or criminal sanctions against the company and/or certain of our current or former officers, directors or employees, or other actions taken or required as a result of the review; our ability to retain, recruit and hire key executives, technical personnel and other employees in the positions and numbers, with the experience and capabilities, and at the compensation levels needed to implement our business and product plans; the quality of our products and any potential remediation costs; the availability and pricing of third party semiconductor foundry, assembly and test capacity and raw materials; the risks of producing products with new suppliers and at new fabrication and assembly and test facilities; problems or delays that we may face in shifting our products to smaller geometry process technologies and in achieving higher levels of design integration; our ability to timely and accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards and to identify opportunities in new markets; delays in the adoption and
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2007 Results Page 6
acceptance of industry standards in our target markets; changes in our product or customer mix; the volume of our product sales and pricing concessions on volume sales; the effectiveness of our expense and product cost control and reduction efforts; competitive pressures and other factors such as the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; the timing of customer-industry qualification and certification of our products and the risks of non-qualification or non-certification; fluctuations in the manufacturing yields of our third party semiconductor foundries and other problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products; the risks and uncertainties associated with our international operations, particularly in light of terrorist activity, armed conflict or political unrest; the effects of natural disasters, public health emergencies, international conflicts and other events beyond our control; and the level of orders received that can be shipped in a fiscal quarter; and other factors.
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason.
Broadcom
, the pulse logo, Connecting everything
and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Bluetooth
is a trademark of the Bluetooth SIG. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2007 Results Page 7
(a) Includes royalties in the amount of $31.8 million from a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2007 Results Page 8
Listed below are the items included in net income that management excludes in computing the unaudited non-GAAP financial measures referred to in the text and tables of this press release and further described under "Discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures."
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2007 Results Page 9
Non-GAAP net income per share is calculated by dividing non-GAAP net income by non-GAAP weighted average shares outstanding (diluted). For purposes of calculating non-GAAP net income per share, the calculation of GAAP weighted average shares outstanding (diluted) is adjusted to exclude the benefits of compensation costs attributable to future services and not yet recognized in the financial statements that are treated as proceeds assumed to be used to repurchase shares under the GAAP treasury stock method.
Broadcom believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share provides important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to the company's financial condition and results of operations. For further information regarding why Broadcom believes that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors, the specific manner in which management uses these measures, and some of the limitations associated with the use of these measures, please refer to the company's Current Report on Form 8-K regarding this earnings press release filed today with the SEC.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2007 Results Page 10
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Year 2007 Results Page 11


