FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20081021161625.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
On October 21, 2008 Broadcom Corporation issued a press release announcing unaudited financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE, Calif.  October 21, 2008  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today reported unaudited financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2008.
Net revenue for the third quarter of 2008 was $1.298 billion, an increase of 8.1% compared with the $1.201 billion reported for the second quarter of 2008 and an increase of 36.7% compared with the $950.0 million reported for the third quarter of 2007. Net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the third quarter of 2008 was $164.9 million, or $.31 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $134.8 million, or $.25 per share (diluted), for the second quarter of 2008, and GAAP net income of $27.8 million, or $.05 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2007.
Net revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 was $3.532 billion, an increase of 28.5% from the $2.749 billion reported for the nine months ended September 30, 2007. Net income computed in accordance with GAAP for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 was $374.0 million, or $.70 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $123.0 million, or $.21 per share (diluted), for the nine months ended September 30, 2007.
Net revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 included royalties of $109.2 million received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. The
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results Page 2
royalty received in the second and third quarters of 2008 was $35.6 million and $38.0 million, respectively.
"The third quarter was a great quarter for Broadcom. We achieved record revenue and cash flow from operations, and demonstrated our commitment to deliver profitable growth," said Scott A. McGregor, Broadcom's President & Chief Executive Officer. "As in prior economic slowdowns, we expect to enhance our competitive positioning and drive the next wave of communications convergence. The widespread acceptance of our combination solutions validates our strategy, and together with our rapid transition to 65nm process technology, should enable us to emerge in a much stronger position when the economy recovers."
Conference Call Information
As previously announced, Broadcom will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its third quarter 2008 financial results and current financial prospects today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (4:45 p.m. Eastern Time). The company will broadcast the conference call via webcast over the Internet. To listen to the webcast, or to view the financial or other statistical information required by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation G, please visit the Investors section of the Broadcom website at . Please note that we have added additional information to this presentation regarding our revenue, gross margin and operating expenses. The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time, Tuesday, November 4, 2008.
www.broadcom.com/investors
About Broadcom
Broadcom Corporation is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Broadcom products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. We provide the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices.
These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results Page 3
Broadcom is one of the world's largest fabless semiconductor companies, with 2007 revenue of $3.78 billion, and currently holds more than 2,900 U.S. and 1,300 foreign patents, more than 7,600 additional pending patent applications, and one of the broadest intellectual property portfolios addressing both wired and wireless transmission of voice, video, data and multimedia.
Broadcom is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., and has offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at +1.949.926.5000 or at .
www.broadcom.com
Cautions regarding Forward Looking Statements:
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, guidance provided on future revenue, gross margin and operating expense targets for the fourth quarter of 2008 and references to our ability to emerge in a stronger position when the economy recovers. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to:
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results Page 4
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results Page 5
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement, except as required by law.
Broadcom
, the pulse logo, Connecting everything
and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results Page 6
 
     The following table presents details of total stock-based compensation expense in each functional line item in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income above:
included
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results Page 7
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results Page 8
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results Page 9
     The following table presents details of supplementary financial data in each functional line item in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income:
included
 
 
Broadcom Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results Page 10
 
Broadcom has based the preceding guidance for the three months ending December 31, 2008 on expectations, assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable given our assessment of historical trends and other information reasonably available as of October 21, 2008. Our guidance consists of predictions only, however, and is subject to a wide range of known and unknown business risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. The forecasts and projections contained in the table above should not be regarded as representations by Broadcom that the estimated results will be achieved. Projections and estimates are necessarily speculative in nature and actual results may vary materially from the guidance we provide today.
The guidance set forth in the table above should be read together with the information under the caption, "Cautions regarding Forward Looking Statements" above, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, including the guidance set forth herein.


