FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20080722161513.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
On July 22, 2008 Broadcom Corporation issued a press release announcing unaudited financial results for the first quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE, Calif.  July 22, 2008  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today reported unaudited financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2008.
Net revenue for the second quarter of 2008 was $1.201 billion, an increase of 16.3% compared with the $1.032 billion reported for the first quarter of 2008 and an increase of 33.7% compared with the $897.9 million reported for the second quarter of 2007. Net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the second quarter of 2008 was $134.8 million, or $.25 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $74.3 million, or $.14 per share (diluted), for the first quarter of 2008, and GAAP net income of $34.3 million, or $.06 per share (diluted), for the second quarter of 2007.
Net revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2008 was $2.233 billion, an increase of 24.1% from the $1.799 billion reported for the six months ended June 30, 2007. Net income computed in accordance with GAAP for the six months ended June 30, 2008 was $209.1 million, or $.39 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $95.2 million, or $.16 per share (diluted), for the six months ended June 30, 2007.
Net revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2008 included royalties of $71.2 million received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. The royalty received in each quarter was $35.6 million.
 
"Despite continued economic turmoil, demand for Broadcom's wired and wireless communications products strengthened in the second quarter," said Scott A. McGregor, Broadcom's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Our quarterly product revenue, excluding royalties, surpassed the $1.0 billion milestone for the first time in our history in the second quarter, highlighting the growing role that communications plays within our everyday lives at home, at work or while on-the-go. Broadcom excels at integrating multiple forms of communications into a single piece of silicon and is positioned to continue leading this convergence in communications."
Conference Call Information
As previously announced, Broadcom will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its second quarter 2008 financial results and current financial prospects today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (4:45 p.m. Eastern Time). The company will broadcast the conference call via webcast over the Internet. To listen to the webcast, or to view the financial or other statistical information required by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation G, please visit the Investors section of the Broadcom website at . The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time, Tuesday, August 5, 2008.
www.broadcom.com/investors
About Broadcom
Broadcom Corporation is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Broadcom products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. We provide the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
 
Broadcom is one of the world's largest fabless semiconductor companies, with 2007 revenue of $3.78 billion, and holds over 2,800 U.S. and 1,200 foreign patents, more than 7,300 additional pending patent applications, and one of the broadest intellectual property portfolios addressing both wired and wireless transmission of voice, video, data and multimedia.
Broadcom is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., and has offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at +1.949.926.5000 or at .
www.broadcom.com
Cautions regarding Forward Looking Statements:
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, references to our expectations regarding customer orders and future revenue growth and our ability to lead the convergence trends in communications. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to:
 
 
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason.
Broadcom
, the pulse logo, Connecting everything
and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
     The following table presents details of total stock-based compensation expense in each functional line item in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income above:
included
 
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
 
     The following table presents details of supplementary financial data in each functional line item in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income:
included
 


