FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20090129162145.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
On January 29, 2009 Broadcom Corporation issued a press release announcing unaudited financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1       Press Release dated January 29, 2009 of the Registrant.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE, Calif.  January 29, 2009  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today reported unaudited financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2008.
Net revenue for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $1.127 billion, a decrease of 13.2% compared with the $1.298 billion reported for the third quarter of 2008 and an increase of 9.7% compared with the $1.027 billion reported for the fourth quarter of 2007. Net loss computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $159.2 million, or $.32 net loss per share (basic and diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $164.9 million, or $.31 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2008, and GAAP net income of $90.3 million, or $.16 per share (diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2007. The company's financial results for the fourth quarter of 2008 reflect impairment charges of goodwill and certain tangible assets of its mobile platforms business group, as well as in-process research and development charges associated with its acquisition of the digital TV business of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. These charges represented cumulative reductions in net income of $0.40 per share (diluted), as discussed in greater detail below.
Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $4.658 billion, an increase of 23.3% from the $3.776 billion reported for the year ended December 31, 2007. Net
 
income computed in accordance with GAAP for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $214.8 million, or $.41 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $213.3 million, or $.37 per share (diluted), for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 included royalties of $149.2 million received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. The royalites received in the third and fourth quarters of 2008 and the fourth quarter of 2007 were $38.0 million, $40.0 million and $31.8 million, respectively. The Company anticipates that it will receive $19.0 million in royalites under this patent license agreement in the first quarter of 2009.
In the fourth quarter of 2008, the company performed an annual review of its goodwill and long-lived assets to determine if any of these assets were impaired. As a result of this review, the company recorded an impairment charge of $169.4 million (which consisted of $149.7 million of goodwill and $19.7 million of property and equipment) in the quarter related to its mobile platforms business group. In addition, in connection with the company's acquisition of the digital TV business of AMD, the company recorded a charge for in-process research and development of $31.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. These charges represented cumulative reductions in net income of $0.40 per share (diluted) in the fourth quarter and year ended 2008. The charges will not result in any changes in strategy or direction for Broadcom's mobile platforms or digital TV businesses.
"Despite the dramatic impact that the economic downturn had on the semiconductor industry as a whole in 2008 and on our business in the fourth quarter, Broadcom achieved record revenue levels in 2008 increasing annual net revenue by approximately $900 million and generated approximately $920 million of cash flow from operations during the year," said Scott A. McGregor, Broadcom's President and Chief Executive Officer. "As we look into the first quarter of 2009, we believe the current economic slowdown will continue to negatively impact our business as demand continues to decrease and settle into new levels and channel inventory adjusts accordingly. As we noted at our Analyst Day in December, Broadcom's key goals for 2009 are to manage costs and focus on operating cash flow, while at the same time leveraging our research and investments
 
to gain market share to ensure that we will emerge in a much stronger position once the economy recovers. Consistent with those goals, we have been reducing controllable ongoing expenses since the third quarter of 2008 and are implementing further cost saving measures this quarter, including a delay in salary increases, a reduction in our workforce and a variety of other belt tightening actions on discretionary spending."
Conference Call Information
As previously announced, Broadcom will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its fourth quarter and year 2008 financial results and current financial prospects today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (4:45 p.m. Eastern Time). The company will broadcast the conference call via webcast over the Internet. To listen to the webcast, or to view the financial or other statistical information required by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation G, please visit the Investors section of the Broadcom website at . Please note that we have added additional information to this presentation regarding our revenue, gross margin and operating expenses. The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time, Friday, March 27, 2009.
www.broadcom.com/investors
The financial results included in this release are unaudited. The audited financial statements of the company for the year ended December 31, 2008 will be included in Broadcom's Annual Report on Form 10-K, to be filed with the SEC in February 2009.
About Broadcom
Broadcom Corporation is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Broadcom products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. We provide the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
 
Broadcom is one of the world's largest fabless semiconductor companies, with 2007 revenue of $3.78 billion, holds over 3,100 U.S. and over 1,400 foreign patents, and has more than 7,600 additional pending patent applications, and one of the broadest intellectual property portfolios addressing both wired and wireless transmission of voice, video, data and multimedia.
Broadcom is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., and has offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at +1.949.926.5000 or at .
www.broadcom.com
Cautions regarding Forward Looking Statements:
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, guidance provided on future revenue, gross margin and operating expense targets for the first quarter of 2009, references to the planned filing date of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and statements about our plans to implement further cost saving measures. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to:
 
 
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement, except as required by law.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything, and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
     The following table presents details of total stock-based compensation expense in each functional line item in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations above:
included
 
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
 
     The following table presents details of supplementary financial data in each functional line item in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations:
included
 
 
 
Broadcom has based the preceding guidance for the three months ending March 31, 2009 on expectations, assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable given our assessment of historical trends and other information reasonably available as of January 29, 2009. Our guidance consists of predictions only, however, and is subject to a wide range of known and unknown business risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. The forecasts and projections contained in the table above should not be regarded as representations by Broadcom that the estimated results will be achieved. Projections and estimates are necessarily speculative in nature and actual results may vary materially from the guidance we provide today.
The guidance set forth in the table above should be read together with the information under the caption, "Cautions regarding Forward Looking Statements" above, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, subsequent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 to filed in February 2009, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, including the guidance set forth herein.


