FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20100727161945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report, including the exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
On July 27, 2010 Broadcom Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing unaudited financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press release dated July 27, 2010 of the Registrant.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today reported unaudited financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2010.
IRVINE, Calif. July 27, 2010
Net revenue for the second quarter of 2010 was a record $1.604 billion. This represents an increase in net revenue of 9.7% compared with the $1.462 billion reported for the first quarter of 2010 and an increase of 54.3% compared with the $1.040 billion reported for the second quarter of 2009. Net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the second quarter of 2010 was $278 million, or $.52 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $210 million, or $.40 per share (diluted), for the first quarter of 2010, and GAAP net income of $13 million, or $.03 per share (diluted), for the second quarter of 2009.
Net revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2010 was $3.067 billion. This represents an increase in net revenue of 62.0% from the $1.893 billion reported for the six months ended June 30, 2009. Net income computed in accordance with GAAP for the six months ended June 30, 2010 was $488 million, or $.92 per share (diluted), compared with
 
Broadcom Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results Page 2
GAAP net loss of $79 million, or ($.16) per share (basic and diluted), for the six months ended June 30, 2009.
For a discussion of certain selected transactions and their related accounting impact for all periods presented, see the "Unaudited Supplementary Financial Data" schedule below.
"The second quarter was an exceptional quarter for Broadcom, as strong product demand within our Broadband and Mobile & Wireless segments resulted in record revenue and earnings. Broadcom's substantial increase in earnings per share and solid improvement in product operating margin demonstrates our commitment to driving profitable growth in 2010," said Scott A. McGregor, Broadcom's President and Chief Executive Officer.
"We anticipate that increasing demand for communications solutions and market share gains will drive strong revenue growth for Broadcom in the third quarter."
Conference Call Information
As previously announced, Broadcom will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its second quarter 2010 financial results and current financial prospects today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (4:45 p.m. Eastern Time). The company will broadcast the conference call via webcast over the Internet. To listen to the webcast, or to view the financial and other statistical information required by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation G, please visit the Investors section of the Broadcom website at . The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time, September 23, 2010.
www.broadcom.com/investors
The financial results included in this release are unaudited.
About Broadcom
Broadcom Corporation is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Broadcom products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and
 
Broadcom Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results Page 3
the mobile environment. We provide the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
Broadcom, one of the world's largest fabless communications semiconductor companies, with 2009 revenue of $4.49 billion, holds more than 4,300 U.S. and 1,800 foreign patents, and has more than 7,900 additional pending patent applications, and one of the broadest intellectual property portfolios addressing both wired and wireless transmission of voice, video, data and multimedia.
A FORTUNE 500 company, Broadcom is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., and has offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at +1.949.926.5000 or at .
www.broadcom.com
Cautions regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, guidance provided on future revenue, gross product margin and operating expense targets for the third quarter of 2010, references to the positioning of our products and statements about opportunities within the wired and wireless communication markets and our commitment to profitable growth in 2010. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the following:
 
Broadcom Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results Page 4
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement, except as required by law.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything, and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
 
Broadcom Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results Page 5
     Certain prior period amounts in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation of income from the Qualcomm Agreement and licensing revenue.
     The following table presents details of total stock-based compensation expense in each functional line item in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations above:
included
 
Broadcom Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results Page 6
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Broadcom Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results Page 7
 
Broadcom Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results Page 8
     The following table presents details of supplementary financial data in each functional line item in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations:
included
 
Broadcom Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results Page 9
 
Broadcom Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results Page 10
 
Broadcom has based the preceding guidance for the three months ending September 30, 2010 on expectations, assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable given our assessment of historical trends and other information reasonably available as of July 27, 2010. Our guidance consists of predictions only, however, and is subject to a wide range of known and unknown business risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. The forecasts and projections contained in the table above should not be regarded as representations by Broadcom that the estimated results will be achieved. Projections and estimates are necessarily speculative in nature and actual results may vary materially from the guidance we provide today.
The guidance set forth in the above table should be read together with the information under the caption, "Cautions regarding Forward Looking Statements" above, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, including the guidance set forth herein, except as required by law.


