FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20101101170331.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On November 1, 2010, Broadcom Corporation ("Broadcom") completed its previously-announced private offering of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 1.500% Senior Notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes") and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 2.375% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes", and together with the 2013 Notes, the "Notes").
In connection with the closing of the Notes offering, Broadcom entered into an indenture, dated November 1, 2010, between Broadcom and Wilmington Trust FSB, as trustee (the "Base Indenture"), and a supplemental indenture to the Base Indenture setting forth the terms of the Notes (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture").
The 2013 Notes mature on November 1, 2013, and accrue interest at a rate of 1.500% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears in cash on May 1 and November 1 of each year, beginning May 1, 2011. The 2015 Notes mature on November 1, 2015, and accrue interest at a rate of 2.375% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears in cash on May 1 and November 1, beginning May 1, 2011.
Broadcom may redeem the Notes, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a specified make-whole premium. In the event of a change of control triggering event, each holder of Notes will have the right to require Broadcom to purchase for cash all or a portion of such holder's Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Indenture contains covenants limiting Broadcom's ability to create certain liens, enter into sale and lease-back transactions, and consolidate or merge with or into, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all the Broadcom's properties and assets to, another person, each subject to certain exceptions.
The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of the Base Indenture, attached as Exhibit 4.01, and the Supplemental Indenture, including the form of Notes, attached as Exhibit 4.02, in each case incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
The information set forth above under Item 1.01 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
In connection with the sale of the Notes, Broadcom entered into a registration rights agreement, dated as of November 1, 2010, with the initial purchasers of the Notes (the "Registration Rights Agreement"). Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, Broadcom intends to file an exchange offer registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") with respect to an offer to exchange the Notes for notes that are substantially similar to the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes, as applicable (collectively, the "New Notes") (except that (i) interest on the New Notes will accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the Notes, (ii) the New Notes will not contain restrictions on transfer and (iii) the New Notes will not provide for the payment of additional interest (as described below)). Broadcom will use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the exchange offer registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC and to consummate the exchange offer by no later than November 1, 2011. If Broadcom fails to complete the exchange offer by such deadline (a "Registration Default"), then it will, with certain exceptions, be required to pay additional interest to the holders of the Notes.
The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement attached as Exhibit 4.03 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 4.1
Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Indenture dated as of November 1, 2010 between Broadcom Corporation., a California corporation (""), and Wilmington Trust FSB ("").
Company
Trustee
          Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities issued under this Indenture.
     Section 1.1. .
Definitions
          "" means any additional amounts which are required hereby or by any Security, under circumstances specified herein or therein, to be paid by the Company in respect of certain taxes imposed on Holders specified herein or therein and which are owing to such Holders.
Additional Amounts
          "" of any specified person means any other person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under common control with such specified person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or by agreement or otherwise.
Affiliate
          "" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or Service Agent.
Agent
          "" means the Board of Directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee thereof.
Board of Directors
          "" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been adopted by the Board of Directors or pursuant to authorization by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of the certificate and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
          "" means, unless otherwise provided by Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate or supplemental indenture hereto for a particular Series, any day except a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday in The City of New York on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close.
Business Day
          "" means: (1) in the case of a corporation, corporate stock; (2) in the case of an association or business entity, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents (however designated and whether or not voting) of corporate stock, including each class of common stock and preferred stock of such person; and (3) in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership or membership interests (whether general or limited).
Capital Stock
          "" means the party named as such above until a successor replaces it and thereafter means the successor.
Company
 
          "" means a written order signed in the name of the Company by two Officers, one of whom must be the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer.
Company Order
          "" means a written request signed in the name of the Company by its Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Request
          "" means the office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be principally administered.
Corporate Trust Office
          "" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
          "" means, with respect to the Securities of any Series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, the person designated as Depositary for such Series by the Company, which Depositary shall be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act; and if at any time there is more than one such person, "Depositary" as used with respect to the Securities of any Series shall mean the Depositary with respect to the Securities of such Series.
Depositary
          "" means any Security that provides for an amount less than the stated principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.2.
Discount Security
          "" and "" means the currency of The United States of America.
Dollars
$
          "" means the European Currency Unit as determined by the Commission of the European Union.
ECU
          "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
          "" means any currency or currency unit issued by a government other than the government of The United States of America.
Foreign Currency
          "" means, with respect to Securities of any Series that are denominated in a Foreign Currency, (i) direct obligations of the government that issued or caused to be issued such currency for the payment of which obligations its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a person controlled or supervised by or acting as an agency or instrumentality of such government the timely payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by such government, which, in either case under clauses (i) or (ii), are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof.
Foreign Government Obligations
          means accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have
"GAAP"
 
been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are in effect as of the date of this Indenture.
          "" or "" means a Security or Securities, as the case may be, in the form established pursuant to Section 2.2 evidencing all or part of a Series of Securities, issued to the Depositary for such Series or its nominee, and registered in the name of such Depositary or nominee.
Global Security
Global Securities
          "" or "" means a person in whose name a Security is registered.
Holder
Securityholder
          "" means this Indenture as amended or supplemented from time to time and shall include the form and terms of particular Series of Securities established as contemplated hereunder.
Indenture
          "" with respect to any Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
interest
          "," when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
Maturity
          "" means the Chief Executive Officer, President, any Vice-President, the Treasurer, the Secretary, any Assistant Treasurer or any Assistant Secretary of the Company.
Officer
          "" means a certificate signed by two Officers, one of whom must be the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer.
Officers' Certificate
          "" means a written opinion of legal counsel who is acceptable to the Trustee. The counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company.
Opinion of Counsel
          "" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, limited liability company, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
person
          "" of a Security means the principal of the Security plus, when appropriate, the premium, if any, on, and any Additional Amounts in respect of, the Security.
principal
          "" means any officer of the Trustee in its Corporate Trust Office and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his or her knowledge of and familiarity with a particular subject.
Responsible Officer
          "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
          "" means the debentures, notes or other debt instruments of the Company of any Series authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
Securities
 
          "" or "" means each series of debentures, notes or other debt instruments of the Company created pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 2.2 hereof.
Series
Series of Securities
          "" when used with respect to any Security, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or interest is due and payable.
Stated Maturity
          "" of any specified person means any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of Capital Stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such person or one or more of the other Subsidiaries of that person or a combination thereof.
Subsidiary
          "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date of this Indenture; , , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "TIA" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act as so amended.
TIA
provided
however
          "" means the person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any Series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that Series.
Trustee
          "" means securities which are (i) direct obligations of The United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of The United States of America the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by The United States of America, and which in the case of (i) and (ii) are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligation or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such U.S. Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt, that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.
U.S. Government Obligations
provided
     Section 1.2. .
Other Definitions
 
     Section 1.3. .
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
          Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
          "" means the SEC.
Commission
          "" means the Securities.
indenture securities
          "" means a Securityholder.
indenture security holder
          "" means this Indenture.
indenture to be qualified
          "" or "" means the Trustee.
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
          "" on the indenture securities means the Company and any successor obligor upon the Securities.
obligor
          All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule under the TIA and not otherwise defined herein are used herein as so defined.
     Section 1.4. .
Rules of Construction
          Unless the context otherwise requires:
     (a) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
     (b) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
     (c) "" is not exclusive;
or
     (d) words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular; and
 
     (e) provisions apply to successive events and transactions.
     Section 2.1. .
Issuable in Series
          The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Securities may be issued in one or more Series. All Securities of a Series shall be identical except as may be set forth or determined in the manner provided in a Board Resolution, supplemental indenture or Officers' Certificate detailing the adoption of the terms thereof pursuant to authority granted under a Board Resolution. In the case of Securities of a Series to be issued from time to time, the Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate or supplemental indenture detailing the adoption of the terms thereof pursuant to authority granted under a Board Resolution may provide for the method by which specified terms (such as interest rate, maturity date, record date or date from which interest shall accrue) are to be determined. Securities may differ between Series in respect of any matters, provided that all Series of Securities shall be equally and ratably entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
     Section 2.2. .
Establishment of Terms of Series of Securities
          At or prior to the issuance of any Securities within a Series, the following shall be established (as to the Series generally, in the case of Subsection 2.2.1 and either as to such Securities within the Series or as to the Series generally in the case of Subsections 2.2.2 through 2.2.23) by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth or determined in the manner provided in a Board Resolution, supplemental indenture or Officers' Certificate:
          2.2.1. the title of the Series (which shall distinguish the Securities of that particular Series from the Securities of any other Series);
          2.2.2. the price or prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount thereof) at which the Securities of the Series will be issued;
          2.2.3. any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the Series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the Series pursuant to Section 2.7, 2.8, 2.11, 3.6 or 9.6);
          2.2.4. the date or dates on which the principal of the Securities of the Series is payable;
          2.2.5. the rate or rates (which may be fixed or variable) per annum or, if applicable, the method used to determine such rate or rates (including, but not limited to, any commodity, commodity index, stock exchange index or financial index) at which the Securities of the Series shall bear interest, if any, the date or dates from which such interest, if any, shall accrue, the date or dates on which such interest, if any, shall commence and be payable and any regular record date for the interest payable on any interest payment date;
 
          2.2.6. the place or places where the principal of and interest, if any, on the Securities of the Series shall be payable, where the Securities of such Series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of such Series and this Indenture may be served, and the method of such payment, if by wire transfer, mail or other means;
          2.2.7. if applicable, the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which the Securities of the Series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company;
          2.2.8. the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase the Securities of the Series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the Series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
          2.2.9. the dates, if any, on which and the price or prices at which the Securities of the Series will be repurchased by the Company at the option of the Holders thereof and other detailed terms and provisions of such repurchase obligations;
          2.2.10. if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which the Securities of the Series shall be issuable;
          2.2.11. the forms of the Securities of the Series and whether the Securities will be issuable as Global Securities;
          2.2.12. if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of the Securities of the Series that shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.2;
          2.2.13. the currency of denomination of the Securities of the Series, which may be Dollars or any Foreign Currency, including, but not limited to, the ECU, and if such currency of denomination is a composite currency other than the ECU, the agency or organization, if any, responsible for overseeing such composite currency;
          2.2.14. the designation of the currency, currencies or currency units in which payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on the Securities of the Series will be made;
          2.2.15. if payments of principal of or interest, if any, on the Securities of the Series are to be made in one or more currencies or currency units other than that or those in which such Securities are denominated, the manner in which the exchange rate with respect to such payments will be determined;
          2.2.16. the manner in which the amounts of payment of principal of or interest, if any, on the Securities of the Series will be determined, if such amounts may be determined by reference to an index based on a currency or currencies or by reference to a commodity, commodity index, stock exchange index or financial index;
 
          2.2.17. the provisions, if any, relating to any security provided for the Securities of the Series;
          2.2.18. any addition to or change in the Events of Default which applies to any Securities of the Series and any change in the right of the Trustee or the requisite Holders of such Securities to declare the principal amount thereof due and payable pursuant to Section 6.2;
          2.2.19. any addition to or change in the covenants set forth in Articles IV or V which applies to Securities of the Series;
          2.2.20. any other terms of the Securities of the Series (which may supplement, modify or delete any provision of this Indenture insofar as it applies to such Series);
          2.2.21. any depositaries, interest rate calculation agents, exchange rate calculation agents or other agents with respect to Securities of such Series if other than those appointed herein;
          2.2.22. the provisions, if any, relating to conversion of any Securities of such Series, including if applicable, the conversion price, the conversion period, provisions as to whether conversion will be mandatory, at the option of the Holders thereof or at the option of the Company, the events requiring an adjustment of the conversion price and provisions affecting conversion if such Series of Securities are redeemed; and
          2.2.23. whether the Securities of such Series will be senior debt securities or subordinated debt securities and, if applicable, a description of the subordination terms thereof.
          All Securities of any one Series need not be issued at the same time and may be issued from time to time, consistent with the terms of this Indenture, if so provided by or pursuant to the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture hereto or Officers' Certificate referred to above.
     Section 2.3. .
Execution and Authentication
          Two Officers shall sign the Securities for the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
          If an Officer whose signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time the Security is authenticated, the Security shall nevertheless be valid.
          A Security shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security has been authenticated under this Indenture.
          The Trustee shall at any time, and from time to time, authenticate Securities for original issue in the principal amount provided in the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture hereto or Officers' Certificate, upon receipt by the Trustee of a Company Order. Such Company Order may authorize authentication and delivery pursuant to oral or electronic instructions from the Company or its duly authorized agent or agents, which oral instructions shall be promptly
 
confirmed in writing. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication unless otherwise provided by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate.
          The aggregate principal amount of Securities of any Series outstanding at any time may not exceed any limit upon the maximum principal amount for such Series set forth in the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture hereto or Officers' Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 2.2, except as provided in Section 2.8.
          Prior to the issuance of Securities of any Series, the Trustee shall have received and (subject to Section 7.2) shall be fully protected in relying on: (a) the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture hereto or Officers' Certificate establishing the form of the Securities of that Series or of Securities within that Series and the terms of the Securities of that Series or of Securities within that Series, (b) an Officers' Certificate complying with Section 10.4, and (c) an Opinion of Counsel complying with Section 10.4.
          The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any Securities of such Series: (a) if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that such action may not be taken lawfully; or (b) if the Trustee in good faith by its board of directors or trustees, executive committee or a trust committee of directors and/or vice-presidents shall determine that such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability to Holders of any then outstanding Series of Securities.
          The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Securities. An authenticating agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company.
     Section 2.4. .
Registrar and Paying Agent
          The Company shall maintain, with respect to each Series of Securities, at the place or places specified with respect to such Series pursuant to Section 2.2, an office or agency where Securities of such Series may be presented or surrendered for payment (""), where Securities of such Series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange ("") and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of such Series and this Indenture may be served (""). The Registrar shall keep a register with respect to each Series of Securities and to their transfer and exchange. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the name and address, and any change in the name or address, of each Registrar, Paying Agent or Service Agent. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required Registrar, Paying Agent or Service Agent or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the name and address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
Paying Agent
Registrar
Service Agent
          The Company may also from time to time designate one or more co-registrars, additional paying agents or additional service agents and may from time to time rescind such
 
designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligations to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent and Service Agent in each place so specified pursuant to Section 2.2 for Securities of any Series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the name or address of any such co-registrar, additional paying agent or additional service agent. The term "" includes any co-registrar; the term "" includes any additional paying agent; and the term "" includes any additional service agent.
provided
however
Registrar
Paying Agent
Service Agent
          The Company hereby appoints the Trustee the initial Registrar, Paying Agent and Service Agent for each Series unless another Registrar, Paying Agent or Service Agent, as the case may be, is appointed prior to the time Securities of that Series are first issued.
     Section 2.5. .
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust
          The Company shall require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent will hold in trust, for the benefit of Securityholders of any Series of Securities, or the Trustee, all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal of or interest on the Series of Securities, and will notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. Upon payment over to the Trustee, the Paying Agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company) shall have no further liability for the money. If the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of Securityholders of any Series of Securities all money held by it as Paying Agent.
     Section 2.6. .
Securityholder Lists
          The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Securityholders of each Series of Securities and shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a). If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee at least ten days before each interest payment date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing a list, in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of Securityholders of each Series of Securities.
     Section 2.7. .
Transfer and Exchange
          Where Securities of a Series are presented to the Registrar or a co-registrar with a request to register a transfer or to exchange them for an equal principal amount of Securities of the same Series, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange if its requirements for such transactions are met. To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Trustee shall authenticate Securities at the Registrar's request. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange (except as otherwise expressly permitted herein), but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar
 
governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable upon exchanges pursuant to Sections 2.11, 3.6 or 9.6).
          Neither the Company nor the Registrar shall be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of, or exchange Securities of any Series for the period beginning at the opening of business fifteen days immediately preceding the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities of that Series selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (b) to register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any Series selected, called or being called for redemption as a whole or the portion being redeemed of any such Securities selected, called or being called for redemption in part.
     Section 2.8. .
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities
          If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same Series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
          If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its request the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same Series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
          In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
          Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
          Every new Security of any Series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that Series duly issued hereunder.
          The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
 
     Section 2.9. .
Outstanding Securities
          The Securities outstanding at any time are all the Securities authenticated by the Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, those reductions in the interest on a Global Security effected by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions hereof and those described in this Section as not outstanding.
          If a Security is replaced pursuant to Section 2.8, it ceases to be outstanding until the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Security is held by a bona fide purchaser.
          If the Paying Agent (other than the Company, a Subsidiary of the Company or an Affiliate of the Company) holds on the Maturity of Securities of a Series money sufficient to pay such Securities payable on that date, then on and after that date such Securities of the Series cease to be outstanding and interest on them ceases to accrue.
          The Company may purchase or otherwise acquire the Securities, whether by open market purchases, negotiated transactions or otherwise. A Security does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Security.
          In determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, the principal amount of a Discount Security that shall be deemed to be outstanding for such purposes shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.2.
     Section 2.10. .
Treasury Securities
          In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Securities of a Series have concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, Securities of a Series owned by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company shall be disregarded, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver only Securities of a Series that the Trustee knows are so owned shall be so disregarded.
     Section 2.11. .
Temporary Securities
          Until definitive Securities are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary Securities upon a Company Order. Temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of definitive Securities but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Securities. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee upon request shall authenticate definitive Securities of the same Series and date of maturity in exchange for temporary Securities. Until so exchanged, temporary securities shall have the same rights under this Indenture as the definitive Securities.
 
     Section 2.12. .
Cancellation
          The Company at any time may deliver Securities to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Securities surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment. The Trustee shall cancel all Securities surrendered for transfer, exchange, payment, replacement or cancellation and shall destroy such canceled Securities (subject to the record retention requirement of the Exchange Act) and deliver a certificate of such destruction to the Company, unless the Company otherwise directs. The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities that it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
     Section 2.13. .
Defaulted Interest
          If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on a Series of Securities, it shall pay the defaulted interest, plus, to the extent permitted by law, any interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the persons who are Securityholders of the Series on a subsequent special record date. The Company shall fix the record date and payment date. At least 10 days before the record date, the Company shall mail to the Trustee and to each Securityholder of the Series a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount of interest to be paid. The Company may pay defaulted interest in any other lawful manner.
     Section 2.14. .
Global Securities
          2.14.1. . A Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate shall establish whether the Securities of a Series shall be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and the Depositary for such Global Security or Securities.
Terms of Securities
          2.14.2. . Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary contained in Section 2.7 of the Indenture and in addition thereto, any Global Security shall be exchangeable pursuant to Section 2.7 of the Indenture for Securities registered in the names of Holders other than the Depositary for such Security or its nominee only if (i) such Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or if at any time such Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and, in either case, the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary registered as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act within 90 days of such event or (ii) the Company executes and delivers to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to the effect that such Global Security shall be so exchangeable. Any Global Security that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for Securities registered in such names as the Depositary shall direct in writing in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security with like tenor and terms.
Transfer and Exchange
          Except as provided in this Section 2.14.2, a Global Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary with respect to such Global Security to a nominee of such Depositary, by a nominee of such Depositary to such Depositary or another nominee of such Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such a successor Depositary.
 
          2.14.3. . Any Global Security issued hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Legend
          "THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY."
          2.14.4. . The Depositary, as a Holder, may appoint agents and otherwise authorize participants to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action which a Holder is entitled to give or take under the Indenture.
Acts of Holders
          2.14.5. . Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Indenture, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.2, payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on any Global Security shall be made to the Holder thereof.
Payments
          2.14.6. . Except as provided in Section 2.14.5, the Company, the Trustee and any Agent shall treat a person as the Holder of such principal amount of outstanding Securities of such Series represented by a Global Security as shall be specified in a written statement of the Depositary with respect to such Global Security, for purposes of obtaining any consents, declarations, waivers or directions required to be given by the Holders pursuant to this Indenture.
Consents, Declaration and Directions
     Section 2.15. .
CUSIP Numbers
          The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other elements of identification printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers.
provided
     Section 3.1. .
Notice to Trustee
          The Company may, with respect to any Series of Securities, reserve the right to redeem and pay the Series of Securities or may covenant to redeem and pay the Series of
 
Securities or any part thereof prior to the Stated Maturity thereof at such time and on such terms as provided for in such Securities. If a Series of Securities is redeemable and the Company wants or is obligated to redeem prior to the Stated Maturity thereof all or part of the Series of Securities pursuant to the terms of such Securities, it shall notify the Trustee of the redemption date and the principal amount of Series of Securities to be redeemed. The Company shall give the notice at least 30 days before the redemption date (or such shorter notice as may be acceptable to the Trustee).
     Section 3.2. .
Selection of Securities to be Redeemed
          Unless otherwise indicated for a particular Series by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate, if less than all the Securities of a Series are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select the Securities of the Series to be redeemed in any manner that the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The Trustee shall make the selection from Securities of the Series outstanding not previously called for redemption. The Trustee may select for redemption portions of the principal of Securities of the Series that have denominations larger than $1,000. Securities of the Series and portions of them it selects shall be in amounts of $1,000 or whole multiples of $1,000 or, with respect to Securities of any Series issuable in other denominations pursuant to Section 2.2.10, the minimum principal denomination for each Series and integral multiples thereof. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to Securities of a Series called for redemption also apply to portions of Securities of that Series called for redemption.
     Section 3.3. .
Notice of Redemption
          Unless otherwise indicated for a particular Series by Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate, at least 15 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, the Company shall mail a notice of redemption by first-class mail to each Holder whose Securities are to be redeemed.
          The notice shall identify the Securities of the Series to be redeemed and shall state:
     (a) the redemption date;
     (b) the redemption price;
     (c) the name and address of the Paying Agent;
     (d) that Securities of the Series called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price;
     (e) that interest on Securities of the Series called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the redemption date;
     (f) the CUSIP number, if any; and
     (g) any other information as may be required by the terms of the particular Series or the Securities of a Series being redeemed.
 
          At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at its expense.
     Section 3.4. .
Effect of Notice of Redemption
          Once notice of redemption is mailed or published as provided in Section 3.3, Securities of a Series called for redemption become due and payable on the redemption date and at the redemption price. A notice of redemption may not be conditional. Upon surrender to the Paying Agent, such Securities shall be paid at the redemption price plus accrued interest to the redemption date.
     Section 3.5. .
Deposit of Redemption Price
          On or before 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the redemption date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest, if any, on all Securities to be redeemed on that date.
     Section 3.6. .
Securities Redeemed in Part
          Upon surrender of a Security that is redeemed in part, the Trustee shall authenticate for the Holder a new Security of the same Series and the same maturity equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Security surrendered.
     Section 4.1. .
Payment of Principal and Interest
          The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of and interest, if any, on the Securities of that Series in accordance with the terms of such Securities and this Indenture. Unless otherwise provided by Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate or supplemental indenture hereto for a particular Series, on or before 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable payment date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the principal of and interest, if any, on the Securities of each Series in accordance with the terms of such Securities and this Indenture.
     Section 4.2. .
SEC Reports
          The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 15 days after it files them with the SEC copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents, and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company is required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The Company also shall comply with the other provisions of TIA  314(a).
 
     Section 4.3. .
Compliance Certificate
          The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, an Officers' Certificate stating that a review of the activities of the Company and its Subsidiaries during the preceding fiscal year has been made under the supervision of the signing Officers with a view to determining whether the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled its obligations under this Indenture, and further stating, as to each such Officer signing such certificate, that to the best of his/her knowledge the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled each and every covenant contained in this Indenture and is not in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions hereof (or, if a Default or Event of Default shall have occurred, describing all such Defaults or Events of Default of which he may have knowledge).
          The Company will, so long as any of the Securities are outstanding, deliver to the Trustee, promptly upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
     Section 4.4. .
Stay, Extension and Usury Laws
          The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture or the Securities; and the Company (to the extent it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law has been enacted.
     Section 4.5. .
Corporate Existence
          Subject to Article V, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence and rights (charter and statutory); provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole and that the loss thereof is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders.
     Section 5.1. .
When Company May Merge, Etc
          The Company may not consolidate with or merge with or into, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its properties and assets to, any person (a "") unless:
successor person
     (a) the Company is the surviving corporation or the successor person (if other than the Company) is a corporation organized and validly existing under the laws of any
 
U.S. domestic jurisdiction and expressly assumes the Company's obligations on the Securities and under this Indenture;
     (b) immediately after giving effect to the transaction, no Default or Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing under this Indenture; and
          (c) the Company has delivered to the Trustee prior to the consummation of the proposed transaction an Officers' Certificate to the foregoing effect and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the proposed transaction and any supplemental indenture comply with this Indenture.
          Notwithstanding the above, any Subsidiary of the Company may consolidate with, merge into or transfer all or part of its properties to the Company. Neither an Officers' Certificate nor an Opinion of Counsel shall be required to be delivered in connection therewith.
     Section 5.2. .
Successor Corporation Substituted
          Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in accordance with Section 5.1, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which such sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor person has been named as the Company herein; , , that the predecessor Company in the case of a sale, conveyance or other disposition (other than a lease) shall be released from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.
provided
however
     Section 6.1. .
Events of Default
          "," wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any Series, means any one of the following events, unless in the establishing Board Resolution, supplemental indenture or Officers' Certificate, it is provided that such Series shall not have the benefit of said Event of Default:
Event of Default
     (a) default in the payment of any interest on any Security of that Series when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days (unless the entire amount of such payment is deposited by the Company with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent prior to the expiration of such period of 30 days); or
     (b) default in the payment of principal of any Security of that Series at its Maturity; or
     (c) default in the performance or breach of any covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty that has been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of Series of Securities other than that Series), which
 
default continues uncured for a period of 60 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that Series a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
     (d) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
     (i) commences a voluntary case,
     (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case,
     (iii) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property,
     (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or
     (v) generally is unable to pay its debts as the same become due; or
     (e) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
     (i) is for relief against the Company in an involuntary case,
     (ii) appoints a Custodian of the Company or for all or substantially all of its property, or
     (iii) orders the liquidation of the Company,
     and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days; or
     (f) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that Series, which is specified in a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate, in accordance with Section 2.2.18.
          The term "" means title 11, U.S. Code or any similar Federal or State law for the relief of debtors. The term "" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Bankruptcy Law
Custodian
     Section 6.2. .
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment
          If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any Series at the time outstanding occurs and is continuing (other than an Event of Default referred to in Section 6.1(d) or (e)) then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that Series may declare the principal amount (or, if any Securities of that Series are Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such Securities) of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all of the
 
Securities of that Series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(d) or (e) shall occur, the principal amount (or specified amount) of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all outstanding Securities shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
ipso facto
          At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to any Series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that Series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that Series, other than the non-payment of the principal and interest, if any, of Securities of that Series which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 6.13.
          No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
     Section 6.3. .
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee
          The Company covenants that if
     (a) default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
     (b) default is made in the payment of principal of any Security at the Maturity thereof, or
     (c) default is made in the deposit of any sinking fund payment when and as due by the terms of a Security,
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal and interest and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal and any overdue interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
then,
          If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities and collect the moneys adjudged or deemed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated.
 
          If an Event of Default with respect to any Securities of any Series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such Series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
     Section 6.4. .
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
          In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
     (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
     (b) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same,
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.7.
          Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
     Section 6.5. .
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities
          All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of
 
judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
     Section 6.6.
Application of Money Collected.
          Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
          First: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.7; and
          Second: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and interest on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal and interest, respectively; and
          Third: To the Company.
     Section 6.7. .
Limitation on Suits
          No Holder of any Security of any Series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless
     (a) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that Series;
     (b) the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that Series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
     (c) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity or security satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request;
     (d) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity or security has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
     (e) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that Series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or
 
preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all such Holders of the applicable Series.
     Section 6.8. .
Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal and Interest
          Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on such Security on the Stated Maturity or Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the redemption date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
     Section 6.9. .
Restoration of Rights and Remedies
          If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
     Section 6.10. .
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
          Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in Section 2.8, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not, to the extent permitted by law, prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
     Section 6.11. .
Delay or Omission Not Waiver
          No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
     Section 6.12. .
Control by Holders
          The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of any Series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for
 
any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such Series, provided that
     (a) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture,
     (b) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction, and
     (c) subject to the provisions of Section 6.1, the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee in good faith shall, by a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, determine that the proceeding so directed would involve the Trustee in personal liability.
     Section 6.13. .
Waiver of Past Defaults
          The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of any Series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such Series waive any past Default hereunder with respect to such Series and its consequences, except a Default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any Security of such Series (provided, however, that the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of any Series may rescind an acceleration and its consequences, including any related payment default that resulted from such acceleration). Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
     Section 6.14. .
Undertaking for Costs
          All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Company, to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of any Series, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of or interest on any Security on or after the Stated Maturity or Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the redemption date).
 
     Section 7.1. .
Duties of Trustee
     (a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.
     (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
     (i) The Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others.
     (ii) In the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon Officers' Certificates or Opinions of Counsel furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; , in the case of any such Officers' Certificates or Opinions of Counsel which by any provisions hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall examine such Officers' Certificates and Opinions of Counsel to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture.
however
     (c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
     (i) This paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section.
     (ii) The Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts.
     (iii) The Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it with respect to Securities of any Series in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of such Series relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such Series.
     (d) Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraph (a), (b) and (c) of this Section.
     (e) The Trustee may refuse to perform any duty or exercise any right or power unless it receives indemnity or security satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in performing such duty or exercising such right or power.
 
     (f) The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
     (g) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk is not reasonably assured to it.
     (h) The Paying Agent, the Registrar and any authenticating agent shall be entitled to the protections, immunities and standard of care as are set forth in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section with respect to the Trustee.
     Section 7.2. .
Rights of Trustee
     (a) The Trustee may rely on and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any document (whether in its original or facsimile form) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
     (b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel.
     (c) The Trustee may act through agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care. No Depositary shall be deemed an agent of the Trustee and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any act or omission by any Depositary.
     (d) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers, provided that the Trustee's conduct does not constitute negligence or bad faith.
     (e) The Trustee may consult with counsel and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder without negligence and in good faith and in reliance thereon.
     (f) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders of Securities unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
     (g) The Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice,
 
request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit.
     (h) The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities generally or the Securities of a particular Series and this Indenture.
     Section 7.3. .
Individual Rights of Trustee
          The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Agent may do the same with like rights. The Trustee is also subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11.
     Section 7.4. .
Trustee's Disclaimer
          The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Securities, and it shall not be responsible for any statement in the Securities other than its authentication.
     Section 7.5. .
Notice of Defaults
          If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing with respect to the Securities of any Series and if it is known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, the Trustee shall mail to each Securityholder of the Securities of that Series notice of a Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs or, if later, after a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has knowledge of such Default or Event of Default. Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of principal of or interest on any Security of any Series, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as its corporate trust committee or a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of Securityholders of that Series.
     Section 7.6. .
Reports by Trustee to Holders
          Within 60 days after May 15 in each year, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to all Securityholders, as their names and addresses appear on the register kept by the Registrar, a brief report dated as of such May 15, in accordance with, and to the extent required under, TIA  313.
          A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Securityholders of any Series shall be filed with the SEC and each stock exchange on which the Securities of that Series are listed. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee when Securities of any Series are listed on any stock exchange.
 
     Section 7.7. .
Compensation and Indemnity
          The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time compensation for its services as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree upon in writing. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by it. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel.
          The Company shall indemnify each of the Trustee and any predecessor Trustee (including the cost of defending itself) against any loss, liability or expense, including taxes (other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the income of the Trustee) incurred by it except as set forth in the next paragraph in the performance of its duties under this Indenture as Trustee or Agent. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate in the defense. The Trustee may have one separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. This indemnification shall apply to officers, directors, employees, shareholders and agents of the Trustee.
          The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss or liability incurred by the Trustee or by any officer, director, employee, shareholder or agent of the Trustee through negligence or bad faith.
          To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities of any Series on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay principal of and interest on particular Securities of that Series.
          When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(d) or (e) occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
          The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of this Indenture.
     Section 7.8. .
Replacement of Trustee
          A resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee shall become effective only upon the successor Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section.
          The Trustee may resign with respect to the Securities of one or more Series by so notifying the Company at least 30 days prior to the date of the proposed resignation. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of any Series may remove the Trustee with respect to that Series by so notifying the Trustee and the Company. The Company may remove the Trustee with respect to Securities of one or more Series if:
     (a) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;
 
     (b) the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent or an order for relief is entered with respect to the Trustee under any Bankruptcy Law;
     (c) a Custodian or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
     (d) the Trustee becomes incapable of acting.
          If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee. Within one year after the successor Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities may appoint a successor Trustee to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.
          If a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any one or more Series does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Securities of the applicable Series may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
          A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Immediately after that, the retiring Trustee shall transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.7, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee with respect to each Series of Securities for which it is acting as Trustee under this Indenture. A successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to each Securityholder of each such Series. Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.8, the Company's obligations under Section 7.7 hereof shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee with respect to expenses and liabilities incurred by it prior to such replacement.
     Section 7.9. .
Successor Trustee by Merger, etc
          If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation, the successor corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
     Section 7.10. .
Eligibility; Disqualification
          This Indenture shall always have a Trustee who satisfies the requirements of TIA  310(a)(1), (2) and (5). The Trustee shall always have a combined capital and surplus of at least $25,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. The Trustee shall comply with TIA  310(b).
     Section 7.11. .
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
          The Trustee is subject to TIA  311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA  311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA  311(a) to the extent indicated.
 
     Section 8.1. .
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
          This Indenture shall upon Company Order cease to be of further effect (except as hereinafter provided in this Section 8.1), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when
          (a) either
     (i) all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than Securities that have been destroyed, lost or stolen and that have been replaced or paid) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
     (ii) all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation
     (1) have become due and payable, or
     (2) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or
     (3) have been called for redemption or are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company, or
     (4) are deemed paid and discharged pursuant to Section 8.3, as applicable;
and the Company, in the case of (1), (2) or (3) above, has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust an amount sufficient for the purpose of paying and discharging the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable on or prior to the date of such deposit) or to the Stated Maturity or redemption date, as the case may be;
     (b) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and
     (c) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
          Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 7.7, and, if money shall have been deposited with
 
the Trustee pursuant to clause (a) of this Section, the provisions of Sections 2.4, 2.7, 2.8, 8.2 and 8.5 shall survive.
     Section 8.2. .
Application of Trust Funds; Indemnification
     (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 8.5, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 8.1, all money and U.S. Government Obligations or Foreign Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 8.3 or 8.4 and all money received by the Trustee in respect of U.S. Government Obligations or Foreign Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 8.3 or 8.4, shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the persons entitled thereto, of the principal and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with or received by the Trustee or to make mandatory sinking fund payments or analogous payments as contemplated by Sections 8.3 or 8.4.
     (b) The Company shall pay and shall indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against U.S. Government Obligations or Foreign Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Sections 8.3 or 8.4 or the interest and principal received in respect of such obligations other than any payable by or on behalf of Holders.
     (c) The Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any U.S. Government Obligations or Foreign Government Obligations or money held by it as provided in Sections 8.3 or 8.4 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent certified public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are then in excess of the amount thereof which then would have been required to be deposited for the purpose for which such U.S. Government Obligations or Foreign Government Obligations or money were deposited or received. This provision shall not authorize the sale by the Trustee of any U.S. Government Obligations or Foreign Government Obligations held under this Indenture.
     Section 8.3. .
Legal Defeasance of Securities of any Series
          Unless this Section 8.3 is otherwise specified, pursuant to Section 2.2.20, to be inapplicable to Securities of any Series, the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness on all the outstanding Securities of any Series on the 91st day after the date of the deposit referred to in subparagraph (d) hereof, and the provisions of this Indenture, as it relates to such outstanding Securities of such Series, shall no longer be in effect (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall, at Company Request, execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except as to:
     (a) the rights of Holders of Securities of such Series to receive, from the trust funds described in subparagraph (d) hereof, (i) payment of the principal of and each installment of principal of and interest on the outstanding Securities of such Series on the
 
Stated Maturity of such principal or installment of principal or interest and (ii) the benefit of any mandatory sinking fund payments applicable to the Securities of such Series on the day on which such payments are due and payable in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and the Securities of such Series;
     (b) the provisions of Sections 2.4, 2.7, 2.8, 8.2, 8.3 and 8.5; and
     (c) the rights, powers, trust and immunities of the Trustee hereunder;
provided that, the following conditions shall have been satisfied:
     (d) the Company shall have deposited or caused to be irrevocably deposited (except as provided in Section 8.2(c)) with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for and dedicated solely to the benefit of the Holders of such Securities (i) in the case of Securities of such Series denominated in Dollars, cash in Dollars and/or U.S. Government Obligations, or (ii) in the case of Securities of such Series denominated in a Foreign Currency (other than a composite currency), money and/or Foreign Government Obligations, which through the payment of interest and principal in respect thereof in accordance with their terms, will provide (and without reinvestment and assuming no tax liability will be imposed on such Trustee), not later than one day before the due date of any payment of money, an amount in cash, sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge each installment of principal of and interest, if any, on and any mandatory sinking fund payments in respect of all the Securities of such Series on the dates such installments of interest or principal and such sinking fund payments are due;
     (e) such deposit will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, this Indenture or any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound;
     (f) no Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such Series shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or during the period ending on the 91st day after such date;
     (g) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that (i) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling, or (ii) since the date of execution of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable Federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of the Securities of such Series will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such deposit, defeasance and discharge and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such deposit, defeasance and discharge had not occurred;
 
     (h) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders of the Securities of such Series over any other creditors of the Company or with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding any other creditors of the Company; and
     (i) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to the defeasance contemplated by this Section have been complied with.
     Section 8.4. .
Covenant Defeasance
          Unless this Section 8.4 is otherwise specified pursuant to Section 2.2.20 to be inapplicable to Securities of any Series, the Company may omit to comply with respect to the Securities of any Series with any term, provision or condition set forth under Sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, and 5.1 as well as any additional covenants specified in a supplemental indenture for such Series of Securities or a Board Resolution or an Officers' Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 2.2.20 (and the failure to comply with any such covenants shall not constitute a Default or Event of Default with respect to such Series under Section 6.1) and the occurrence of any event specified in a supplemental indenture for such Series of Securities or a Board Resolution or an Officers' Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 2.2.18 and designated as an Event of Default shall not constitute a Default or Event of Default hereunder, with respect to the Securities of such Series, provided that the following conditions shall have been satisfied:
     (a) With reference to this Section 8.4, the Company has deposited or caused to be irrevocably deposited (except as provided in Section 8.2(c)) with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such Securities (i) in the case of Securities of such Series denominated in Dollars, cash in Dollars and/or U.S. Government Obligations, or (ii) in the case of Securities of such Series denominated in a Foreign Currency (other than a composite currency), money and/or Foreign Government Obligations, which through the payment of interest and principal in respect thereof in accordance with their terms, will provide (and without reinvestment and assuming no tax liability will be imposed on such Trustee), not later than one day before the due date of any payment of money, an amount in cash, sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent certified public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge each installment of principal of and interest, if any, on and any mandatory sinking fund payments in respect of the Securities of such Series on the dates such installments of interest or principal and such sinking fund payments are due;
     (b) Such deposit will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, this Indenture or any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound;
     (c) No Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such Series shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit;
 
     (d) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that Holders of the Securities of such Series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such deposit and covenant defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such deposit and covenant defeasance had not occurred;
     (e) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating the deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders of the Securities of such Series over any other creditors of the Company or with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding any other creditors of the Company; and
     (f) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the covenant defeasance contemplated by this Section have been complied with.
     Section 8.5. .
Repayment to Company
          The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for the payment of principal and interest that remains unclaimed for two years. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
     Section 8.6. .
Reinstatement
          If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money deposited with respect to Securities of any Series in accordance with Section 8.1 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the obligations of the Company under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such Series and under the Securities of such Series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.1 until such time as the Trustee or the Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.1; , , that if the Company has made any payment of principal of or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to any Securities because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
provided
however
     Section 9.1. .
Without Consent of Holders
          The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Securities of one or more Series without the consent of any Holder:
     (a) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency;
 
     (b) to comply with Article V;
     (c) to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of certificated Securities;
     (d) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder;
     (e) to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of Securities of any Series as permitted by this Indenture;
     (f) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more Series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee; or
     (g) to comply with requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA.
     Section 9.2. .
With Consent of Holders
          The Company and the Trustee may enter into a supplemental indenture with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of each Series affected by such supplemental indenture (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Securities of such Series), for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of each such Series. Except as provided in Section 6.13, the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of any Series by notice to the Trustee (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Securities of such Series) may waive compliance by the Company with any provision of this Indenture or the Securities with respect to such Series.
          It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders of Securities under this Section 9.2 to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture or waiver, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof. After a supplemental indenture or waiver under this section becomes effective, the Company shall mail to the Holders of Securities affected thereby, a notice briefly describing the supplemental indenture or waiver. Any failure by the Company to mail or publish such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture or waiver.
     Section 9.3. .
Limitations
          Without the consent of each Securityholder affected, an amendment or waiver may not:
     (a) reduce the principal amount of Securities whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver;
 
     (b) reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest (including default interest) on any Security;
     (c) reduce the principal or change the Stated Maturity of any Security or reduce the amount of, or postpone the date fixed for, the payment of any sinking fund or analogous obligation;
     (d) reduce the principal amount of Discount Securities payable upon acceleration of the maturity thereof;
     (e) waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of or interest, if any, on any Security (except a rescission of acceleration of the Securities of any Series by the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of such Series and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration);
     (f) make the principal of or interest, if any, on any Security payable in any currency other than that stated in the Security;
     (g) make any change in Sections 6.8, 6.13 or 9.3 (this sentence); or
     (h) waive a redemption payment with respect to any Security, provided that such redemption is made at the Company's option.
     Section 9.4. .
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act
          Every amendment to this Indenture or the Securities of one or more Series shall be set forth in a supplemental indenture hereto that complies with the TIA as then in effect.
     Section 9.5. .
Revocation and Effect of Consents
          Until an amendment is set forth in a supplemental indenture or a waiver becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder of a Security is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of a Security or portion of a Security that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Security, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Security. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent as to his Security or portion of a Security if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date of the supplemental indenture or the date the waiver becomes effective.
          Any amendment or waiver once effective shall bind every Securityholder of each Series affected by such amendment or waiver unless it is of the type described in any of clauses (a) through (h) of Section 9.3. In that case, the amendment or waiver shall bind each Holder of a Security who has consented to it and every subsequent Holder of a Security or portion of a Security that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Security.
 
     Section 9.6. .
Notation on or Exchange of Securities
          The Trustee may place an appropriate notation about an amendment or waiver on any Security of any Series thereafter authenticated. The Company in exchange for Securities of that Series may issue and the Trustee shall authenticate upon request new Securities of that Series that reflect the amendment or waiver.
     Section 9.7. .
Trustee Protected
          In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 7.1) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee shall sign all supplemental indentures, except that the Trustee need not sign any supplemental indenture that adversely affects its rights.
     Section 10.1. .
Trust Indenture Act Controls
          If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with another provision which is required or deemed to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, such required or deemed provision shall control.
     Section 10.2. .
Notices
          Any notice or communication by the Company or the Trustee to the other, or by a Holder to the Company or the Trustee, is duly given if in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail:
if to the Company:
Broadcom Corporation 5300 California Avenue Irvine, California 92617 Attention: General Counsel Telephone: (949) 926-5000
if to the Trustee:
Wilmington Trust FSB 246 Goose Lane, Suite 105 Guilford, Connecticut 06437 Attention: Joseph P. O'Donnell Telephone: (203) 453-4130
          The Company or the Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
          Any notice or communication to a Securityholder shall be mailed by first-class mail to his address shown on the register kept by the Registrar. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Securityholder of any Series or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Securityholders of that or any other Series.
          If a notice or communication is mailed or published in the manner provided above, within the time prescribed, it is duly given, whether or not the Securityholder receives it.
          If the Company mails a notice or communication to Securityholders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Agent at the same time.
     Section 10.3. .
Communication by Holders with Other Holders
          Securityholders of any Series may communicate pursuant to TIA  312(b) with other Securityholders of that Series or any other Series with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities of that Series or all Series. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA  312(c).
     Section 10.4. .
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
          Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
     (a) an Officers' Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
     (b) an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
     Section 10.5. .
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
          Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than a certificate provided pursuant to TIA  314(a)(4)) shall comply with the provisions of TIA  314(e) and shall include:
     (a) a statement that the person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition;
     (b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
     (c) a statement that, in the opinion of such person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
 
     (d) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
     Section 10.6. .
Rules by Trustee and Agents
          The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Securityholders of one or more Series. Any Agent may make reasonable rules and set reasonable requirements for its functions.
     Section 10.7. .
Legal Holidays
          Unless otherwise provided by Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate or supplemental indenture hereto for a particular Series, a "" is any day that is not a Business Day. If a payment date is a Legal Holiday at a place of payment, payment may be made at that place on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest shall accrue for the intervening period.
Legal Holiday
     Section 10.8. .
No Recourse Against Others
          A director, officer, employee or stockholder (past or present), as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
     Section 10.9. .
Counterparts
          This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
     Section 10.10. .
Governing Laws
          
THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES, INCLUDING ANY CLAIM OR CONTROVERSY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE INDENTURE OR THE SECURITIES, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD RESULT IN THE APPLICATION OF ANY LAW OTHER THAN THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
     Section 10.11. .
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
          This Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture.
 
     Section 10.12. .
Successors
          All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successor. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successor.
     Section 10.13. .
Severability
          In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
     Section 10.14. .
Table of Contents, Headings, Etc
          The Table of Contents, Cross Reference Table, and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof, and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
     Section 10.15. .
Securities in a Foreign Currency or in ECU
          Unless otherwise specified in a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 2.2 of this Indenture with respect to a particular Series of Securities, whenever for purposes of this Indenture any action may be taken by the Holders of a specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of Securities of all Series or all Series affected by a particular action at the time outstanding and, at such time, there are outstanding Securities of any Series which are denominated in a coin or currency other than Dollars (including ECUs), then the principal amount of Securities of such Series which shall be deemed to be outstanding for the purpose of taking such action shall be that amount of Dollars that could be obtained for such amount at the Market Exchange Rate at such time. For purposes of this Section 10.15, "" shall mean the noon Dollar buying rate in New York City for cable transfers of that currency as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; , , in the case of ECUs, Market Exchange Rate shall mean the rate of exchange determined by the Commission of the European Union (or any successor thereto) as published in the Official Journal of the European Union (such publication or any successor publication, the ""). If such Market Exchange Rate is not available for any reason with respect to such currency, the Trustee shall use, in its sole discretion and without liability on its part, such quotation of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or, in the case of ECUs, the rate of exchange as published in the Journal, as of the most recent available date, or quotations or, in the case of ECUs, rates of exchange from one or more major banks in The City of New York or in the country of issue of the currency in question or, in the case of ECUs, in Luxembourg or such other quotations or, in the case of ECUs, rates of exchange as the Trustee, upon consultation with the Company, shall deem appropriate. The provisions of this paragraph shall apply in determining the equivalent principal amount in respect of Securities of a Series denominated in currency other than Dollars in connection with any action taken by Holders of Securities pursuant to the terms of this Indenture.
Market Exchange Rate
provided
however
Journal
          All decisions and determinations of the Trustee regarding the Market Exchange Rate or any alternative determination provided for in the preceding paragraph shall be in its sole
 
discretion and shall, in the absence of manifest error, to the extent permitted by law, be conclusive for all purposes and irrevocably binding upon the Company and all Holders.
     Section 10.16. .
Judgment Currency
          The Company agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so under applicable law, that (a) if for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the principal of or interest or other amount on the Securities of any Series (the "") into a currency in which a judgment will be rendered (the ""), the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the day on which final unappealable judgment is entered, unless such day is not a New York Banking Day, then the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the New York Banking Day preceding the day on which final unappealable judgment is entered and (b) its obligations under this Indenture to make payments in the Required Currency (i) shall not be discharged or satisfied by any tender, any recovery pursuant to any judgment (whether or not entered in accordance with subsection (a)), in any currency other than the Required Currency, except to the extent that such tender or recovery shall result in the actual receipt, by the payee, of the full amount of the Required Currency expressed to be payable in respect of such payments, (ii) shall be enforceable as an alternative or additional cause of action for the purpose of recovering in the Required Currency the amount, if any, by which such actual receipt shall fall short of the full amount of the Required Currency so expressed to be payable, and (iii) shall not be affected by judgment being obtained for any other sum due under this Indenture. For purposes of the foregoing, "" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday in The City of New York on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close.
Required Currency
Judgment Currency
New York Banking Day
     Section 11.1. .
Applicability of Article
          The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of the Securities of a Series, except as otherwise permitted or required by any form of Security of such Series issued pursuant to this Indenture.
          The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of the Securities of any Series is herein referred to as a "" and any other amount provided for by the terms of Securities of such Series is herein referred to as an "." If provided for by the terms of Securities of any Series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 11.2. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any Series as provided for by the terms of the Securities of such Series.
mandatory sinking fund payment
optional sinking fund payment
 
     Section 11.2. .
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities
          The Company may, in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of any Series to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities (1) deliver outstanding Securities of such Series to which such sinking fund payment is applicable (other than any of such Securities previously called for mandatory sinking fund redemption) and (2) apply as credit Securities of such Series to which such sinking fund payment is applicable and which have been repurchased by the Company or redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Series of Securities (except pursuant to any mandatory sinking fund) or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments or other optional redemptions pursuant to the terms of such Securities, provided that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received by the Trustee, together with an Officers' Certificate with respect thereto, not later than 15 days prior to the date on which the Trustee begins the process of selecting Securities for redemption, and shall be credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly. If as a result of the delivery or credit of Securities in lieu of cash payments pursuant to this Section 11.2, the principal amount of Securities of such Series to be redeemed in order to exhaust the aforesaid cash payment shall be less than $100,000, the Trustee need not call Securities of such Series for redemption, except upon receipt of a Company Order that such action be taken, and such cash payment shall be held by the Trustee or a Paying Agent and applied to the next succeeding sinking fund payment, , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent shall from time to time upon receipt of a Company Order pay over and deliver to the Company any cash payment so being held by the Trustee or such Paying Agent upon delivery by the Company to the Trustee of Securities of that Series purchased by the Company having an unpaid principal amount equal to the cash payment required to be released to the Company.
provided
however
     Section 11.3. .
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund
          Not less than 45 days (unless otherwise indicated in the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture hereto or Officers' Certificate in respect of a particular Series of Securities) prior to each sinking fund payment date for any Series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing mandatory sinking fund payment for that Series pursuant to the terms of that Series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting of Securities of that Series pursuant to Section 11.2, and the optional amount, if any, to be added in cash to the next ensuing mandatory sinking fund payment, and the Company shall thereupon be obligated to pay the amount therein specified. Not less than 30 days (unless otherwise indicated in the Board Resolution, Officers' Certificate or supplemental indenture in respect of a particular Series of Securities) before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 3.2 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 3.3. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.

Exhibit 4.2
 
          First Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 1, 2010 between Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation (the "") and Wilmington Trust FSB ("").
Company
Trustee
          A. The Company and the Trustee executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2010 (the ""), to provide for the issuance by the Company from time to time of debentures, notes or other debt instruments evidencing its indebtedness. The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, is herein referred to as the ""
Base Indenture
Indenture.
          B. The Company has authorized the issuance of $300,000,000 principal amount of 1.500% Senior Notes due 2013 (the "") and $400,000,000 principal amount of 2.375% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "" and, together with the 2013 Notes, the "").
2013 Notes
2015 Notes
Notes
          C. The Company desires to enter into this First Supplemental Indenture pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture to establish the terms of the Notes in accordance with Section 2.2 of the Base Indenture and to establish the form of the Notes in accordance with Sections 2.2.11 and 2.3 of the Base Indenture.
          D. All things necessary to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement according to its terms have been done.
          NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing premises, the Company and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective Holders from time to time of the Notes as follows:
          Section 1.1. .
Terms of the Notes
          The following terms relate to the Notes:
          (1) The 2013 Notes shall constitute a separate Series of Securities under the Base Indenture having the title "1.500% Senior Notes due 2013" and the 2015 Notes shall constitute a separate Series of Securities under the Base Indenture having the title "2.375% Senior Notes due 2015."
          (2) Each of the 2013 Notes and 2015 Notes shall be issued at a price of one hundred percent (100%) of the principal amount thereof, other than any offering discounts pursuant to the initial offering and resale of the Notes.
          (3) The aggregate principal amount of the 2013 Notes (the "") and the 2015 Notes (the "" and, together with the Initial 2013 Notes, the "") that may be initially authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be $300,000,000 and $400,000,000, respectively. The Company may from time to time, without the consent of the Holders of Notes, issue additional 2013 Notes (in any such case "
Initial 2013 Notes
Initial 2015 Notes
Initial Notes
Additional 2013
 
") or additional 2015 Notes (in any such case, "") having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Initial 2013 Notes or the Initial 2015 Notes, as the case may be. Any Additional 2013 Notes and the Initial 2013 Notes, and any Additional 2015 Notes and the Initial 2015 Notes, as the case may be, shall each constitute a single Series under the Indenture and all references to the 2013 Notes shall include the Initial 2013 Notes and any Additional 2013 Notes, and all references to the 2015 Notes shall include the Initial 2015 Notes and any Additional 2015 Notes, unless the context otherwise requires. The aggregate principal amount of each of the Additional 2013 Notes and Additional 2015 Notes shall be unlimited.
Notes
Additional 2015 Notes
          (4) The entire outstanding principal of the 2013 Notes shall be payable on November 1, 2013. The entire outstanding principal of the 2015 Notes shall be payable on November 1, 2015.
          (5) The rate at which the 2013 Notes shall bear interest shall be 1.500% per year plus Additional Interest, if any, payable pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement. The rate at which the 2015 Notes shall bear interest shall be 2.375% per year plus Additional Interest, if any, payable pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement. The date from which interest shall accrue on the Notes shall be November 1, 2010, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for. The Interest Payment Dates for the Notes shall be May 1 and November 1 of each year, beginning May 1, 2011. Interest shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date to the holders of record at the close of business on the April 15 and October 15 prior to each Interest Payment Date (in connection with the Notes, a ""). The basis upon which interest shall be calculated shall be that of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
regular record date
          (6) The Notes shall be issuable in whole in the form of one or more registered Restricted Global Securities, and the Depositary for such Restricted Global Securities shall be The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York (""). The Notes shall be substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A in the case of 2013 Notes and Exhibit B in the case of 2015 Notes, the terms of which are herein incorporated by reference. The Notes shall be denominated in Dollars and shall be issuable in minimum denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
DTC
          (7) The Notes may be redeemed at the option of the Company prior to the maturity date, as provided in Section 1.5.
          (8) The Notes will not have the benefit of any sinking fund.
          (9) Except as provided herein, the Holders of the Notes shall have no special rights in addition to those provided in the Base Indenture upon the occurrence of any particular events.
          (10) The Notes will be senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equal in right of payment to all of the Company's other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness and among themselves.
 
          (11) The Notes are not convertible into shares of common stock or other securities of the Company.
          (12) The restrictive covenants set forth in Section 1.6 shall be applicable to the Notes.
          Section 1.2. .
Additional Defined Terms
          As used herein, the following defined terms shall have the following meanings with respect to the Notes only:
          "" means, with respect to either Series of Notes, one or more Global Securities, bearing the Private Placement Legend, that will be issued in an aggregate amount of denominations equal in total to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes of such Series sold in global form in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Security
          "" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
          means, as of the date of determination, the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries incurred after the date of this First Supplemental Indenture and secured by Liens not permitted by Section 1.6.1.1.
"Aggregate Debt"
          "" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Security for a Series of Notes, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange at the relevant time.
Applicable Procedures
          "" means, in connection with a sale and lease-back transaction, the lesser of:
Attributable Liens
          (1) the fair market value of the assets subject to such transaction (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof); and
          (2) the present value (discounted at a rate per annum equal to the average interest borne by all outstanding debt securities issued under this Indenture (which may include debt securities in addition to the Notes) determined on a weighted average basis and compounded semi-annually) of the obligations of the lessee for rental payments during the term of the related lease.
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.7.1.
Bankruptcy Law
          "" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Broker-Dealer
          "" means any Indebtedness represented by a lease obligation of a person incurred with respect to real property or equipment acquired or leased by such person and used in its business that is required to be recorded as a capital lease in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease
 
          "" means the occurrence of any one or more of the following events: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Company or one of the Company's Subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" of related persons (as such terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of a majority of the total voting power of the Company's Voting Stock; , , that a person shall not be deemed beneficial owner of, or to own beneficially, (A) any securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such person or any of such person's affiliates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange thereunder, or (B) any securities if such beneficial ownership (i) arises solely as a result of a revocable proxy delivered in response to a proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to the applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, and (ii) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D (or any successor schedule) under the Exchange Act; (3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; (4) the first day on which the majority of the members of the Board of Directors cease to be Continuing Directors; or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution.
Change of Control
provided
however
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of a holding company and (ii) (A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of a majority of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6.3(a).
Change of Control Offer
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6.3(a).
Change of Control Payment
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6.3(a).
Change of Control Payment Date
          "" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
          "" means Clearstream Bank, S.A., or its successors.
Clearstream
 
          "" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
Comparable Treasury Issue
          "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (2) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all of these quotations or (3) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
          "" means, as of any date on which the Company effects a transaction requiring such Consolidated Net Tangible Assets to be measured hereunder, the aggregate amount of assets (less applicable reserves) after deducting therefrom: (a) all current liabilities, except for current maturities of long-term debt and obligations under Capital Leases; and (b) intangible assets, to the extent included in said aggregate amount of assets, as of the end of the Company's most recently completed accounting period for which financial statements are then available and computed in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
          "" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who: (1) was a member of the Board of Directors on the date of this First Supplemental Indenture; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to the Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of the Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment.
Continuing Director
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.7.1.
Custodian
          "" means a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 1.3.
Definitive Security
          "" means the 40-day restricted period as defined in Rule 903(b)(3) under the Securities Act.
Distribution Compliance Period
          "" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., or its successor.
Euroclear
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.7.1
Event of Default
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Securities
 
          "" of any specified person means, without duplication, any indebtedness in respect of borrowed money or that is evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or similar instruments or letters of credit (or reimbursement agreements with respect thereto (other than obligations with respect to letters of credit securing obligations entered into in the ordinary course of business of such person to the extent such letters of credit are not drawn upon or, if and to the extent drawn upon, such drawing is reimbursed no later than the fifth business day following receipt by such person of a demand for reimbursement following payment on the letter of credit)) or representing the balance deferred and unpaid of the purchase price of any Property (including pursuant to Capital Leases), except any such balance that constitutes an accrued expense or trade payable, if and to the extent any of the foregoing indebtedness would appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of such person prepared in accordance with GAAP (but does not include contingent liabilities which appear only in a footnote to a balance sheet). In addition, the term "" includes all of the following items, whether or not any such items would appear as a liability on a balance sheet of the specified person in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
Indebtedness
          (1) all Indebtedness of others secured by a lien on any asset of the specified person (whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by the specified person); and
          (2) to the extent not otherwise included, any guarantee by the specified person of Indebtedness of any other person.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "" excludes any indebtedness of the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries to the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company.
Indebtedness
          "" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
          "" means any entity that, with respect to DTC, clears through or maintains a direct or indirect custodial relationship with a Participant.
Indirect Participant
          "" means the Initial Purchasers set forth on Schedule A to the Purchase Agreement, dated October 27, 2010, among the Company and such Initial Purchasers relating to the initial purchase and sale of the Notes.
Initial Purchasers
          "" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, who is not also a QIB.
Institutional Accredited Investor
          "" means the stated due date of an installment of interest on the Notes.
Interest Payment Date
          "" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P), or, if applicable, the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any Substitute Rating Agency.
Investment Grade
 
          "" means any lien, security interest, charge or encumbrance of any kind (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, and any agreement to give any security interest).
Lien
          "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
Moody's
          "" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
Participant
          "" means, with respect to any person:
Permitted Liens
          (1) Liens on the Principal Property of any person existing at the time such person becomes a Subsidiary of the Company, that such Liens are not incurred in anticipation of such person's becoming a Subsidiary of the Company and do not extend to any Property other than those of such person;
provided
          (2) Liens on Principal Property existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, or Liens thereon to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price thereof, or Liens on Principal Property to secure any Indebtedness incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 180 days after, the latest of the acquisition thereof or, in the case of property, the completion of construction, the completion of improvements or the commencement of substantial commercial operation of such property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof, such construction or the making of such improvements;
          (3) Liens on the Principal Property of a person existing at the time such person is merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company or otherwise acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company or at the time of sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of such person as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, that such Lien was not incurred in anticipation of such merger or consolidation or sale, lease or other disposition and does not extend to any Property other than that of the person merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company or such Property sold, leased or disposed;
provided
          (4) Liens in favor of the United States of America or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), or any department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any Indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of constructing or improving Principal Property subject to such Liens;
          (5) Liens in the Company's favor or in favor of any of the Company's Subsidiaries; or
 
          (6) Liens consisting of deposits of Principal Property to secure (or in lieu of) safety, appeal or customs bonds in proceedings to which the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries is a party in the ordinary course of its business.
          "" means the land, improvements, buildings, fixtures and equipment (including any leasehold interest therein) constituting the principal corporate office and any manufacturing, assembly or test plant, distribution center, research facility, design facility, administrative facility, or sales and marketing facility (in each case, whether now owned or hereafter acquired) which is owned or leased by the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries, unless such office, plant, center or facility has a value of less than $5.0 million or unless the Board of Directors has determined in good faith that such office, plant, center or facility is not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and the Company's Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Principal Property
          "" means the legend set forth in Section 1.4.1 to be placed on all Restricted Securities issued under this Indenture, except where specifically stated otherwise by the provisions of this Indenture.
Private Placement Legend
          "" means any property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, or tangible or intangible, including shares of capital stock.
Property
          "" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
          "" means each of Moody's and S&P, and if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a Substitute Rating Agency in lieu thereof.
Rating Agency
          "" means the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by both Rating Agencies on any day during the period (the "") commencing on the earlier of (a) the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or (b) the public announcement by the Company of the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control, and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible rating downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies). If either Rating Agency is not providing a rating of the Notes on any day during the Trigger Period for any reason, the rating of such Rating Agency shall be deemed to have ceased to be rated Investment Grade during the Trigger Period.
Rating Event
Trigger Period
          "" means, when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date
          "" means, when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Price
          "" means (a) each of Banc of America Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (or their respective affiliates that are primary U.S. Government securities dealers) and their respective successors; , , that if either of the foregoing ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer, the Company will substitute
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided
however
 
another primary U.S. Government securities dealer and (b) two other nationally recognized investment banking firms selected by the Company that are primary U.S. Government securities dealers.
          "" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and ask prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
          "" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2010, by and among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof, relating to the Notes, as such agreement may be amended or supplemented from time to time and, with respect to any debt securities (other than the Notes) issued under this Indenture as part of the same Series as the Notes, one or more registration rights agreements by and among the Company and the other parties thereto, as such agreement(s) may be amended or supplemented from time to time, relating to rights given by the Company to the purchasers of such additional debt securities to register such additional debt securities under the Securities Act.
Registration Rights Agreement
          "" means, with respect to any Series of Notes, one or more Global Securities, bearing the Private Placement Legend, that will be issued in an aggregate amount of denominations equal in total to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes of such Series initially sold in global form in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
Regulation S Global Security
          "" means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date for such redemption; , , that if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
provided
however
          "" means, with respect to any Series of Notes, one or more Definitive Securities of such Series bearing the Private Placement Legend issued under this Indenture.
Restricted Definitive Security
          "" means, with respect to any Series of Notes, one or more Global Securities of such Series bearing the Private Placement Legend, issued under this Indenture.
Restricted Global Security
          "" means, with respect to any Series of Notes, a Note of such Series, unless or until it has been (i) effectively registered under the Securities Act and disposed of in accordance with a registration statement with respect to such Series or (ii) eligible to be resold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any similar provision then in force).
Restricted Security
          "" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act, as it may be amended from time to time, and any successor provision thereto.
Rule 144A
 
          "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
          "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Shelf Registration Statement
          "" means a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors or a committee thereof) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
Substitute Rating Agency
          "" means, for any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated maturity (on a day count basis), computed as of the third Business Day immediately preceding that Redemption Date, of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Business Day.
Treasury Rate
          "", with respect to any Series of Notes, means one or more Definitive Securities representing such Series of Notes that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend, issued under this Indenture.
Unrestricted Definitive Security
          "", with respect to any Series of Notes, means one or more permanent Global Securities representing such Series of Notes that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend, issued under this Indenture.
Unrestricted Global Security
          "" of any specified person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
          Section 1.3. .
Transfer and Exchange
     This Section 1.3 shall replace Section 2.7 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
          1.3.1. . The Company shall keep, or cause to be kept, at its office or agency designated for such purpose as provided in Section 2.4 of the Base Indenture, a register or registers in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall register the Notes and the transfers of Notes as provided in Article II of the Base Indenture and which at all reasonable times shall be open for inspection by the Trustee.
Registration of Transfer and Exchange
          To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute a new Note or Notes of the same Series as the Note presented for a like aggregate principal amount and in authorized denominations and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver such Note or Notes upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Notes. The
 
Trustee shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
          All Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same indebtedness, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. Prior to such due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Note, the Trustee, the Company, any Paying Agent and the Registrar may deem and treat the person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, the Company, the Paying Agent or the Registrar shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
          All certifications, certificates and opinions of counsel required to be submitted to the Trustee pursuant to this Section 1.3 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile, pdf or other electronic means.
          1.3.2. . No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable upon exchanges pursuant to Sections 2.11, 3.6 or 9.6 of the Base Indenture).
Service Charge
          1.3.3. . A Global Security may not be exchanged for Notes registered in the names of Holders other than the Depository except as provided in Section 2.14.2 of the Base Indenture. In any such event, the Company will execute the Definitive Securities of such Series, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security of such Series and, subject to this Section 1.3, the Trustee, upon receipt of an Officers' Certificate evidencing such determination by the Company, if applicable, will authenticate and deliver such Definitive Securities in exchange for such Global Security. Upon the exchange of the Global Security of such Series for such Definitive Securities of such Series, the Global Security shall be canceled by the Trustee. Such Definitive Securities shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its Participants or Indirect Participants or otherwise, shall in writing instruct the Trustee.
Transfer and Exchange of Global Securities
          Except as provided in Sections 2.8 and 2.11 of the Base Indenture, a Global Security may not be exchanged for another Note other than as provided in this Section 1.3.3; that, beneficial interests in a Global Security may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Sections 1.3.4, 1.3.5 or 1.3.8.
provided
          1.3.4. . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Securities of a Series shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities of a Series shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Securities
 
the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Securities also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (a) or (b) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
     (a) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Security of a Series may be transferred to persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Security in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; , , that prior to the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Security may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Security of a Series may be transferred to persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such Series. Subject to Section 1.3.4(d), no written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 1.3.4(a).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Security
provided
however
     (b) . Subject to Section 1.3.3, in connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 1.3.4(a) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar, as applicable, either:
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Securities
     (i) both (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the relevant Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Security of such Series in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the relevant Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase; or
     (ii) both (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the relevant Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Security of such Series in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Registrar containing information regarding the person in whose name such Definitive Security shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (ii)(1) above.
Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 1.3.8, the requirements of this Section 1.3.4(b)(ii) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Registrar of the instructions delivered by the holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities of such Series. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Securities of a Series contained in this Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Security or Notes of such Series pursuant to Section 1.3.9.
 
     (c) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security of a Series may be transferred to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Security of the same Series if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 1.3.4(b) and the Registrar receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Security
     (i) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Security of such Series, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
     (ii) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security of such Series, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
     (d) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security of any Series may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such Series or transferred to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such Series if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 1.3.4(b) and:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Security
     (i) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and Section 1.3.8, and the holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies that it is not (1) a Broker-Dealer, (2) a person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Securities or (3) a person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company;
     (ii) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
     (iii) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
     (iv) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such Series proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such Series, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit D hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or (2) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such Series proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of
 
such Series, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (iv), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
     If any such transfer is effected pursuant to subparagraph (ii) or (iv) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security of such Series has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication of such Unrestricted Global Securities in accordance with Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Securities of such Series in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests so transferred pursuant to subparagraph (ii) or (iv) above. Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Security of a Series cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such Series.
          1.3.5. . Subject to Section 1.3.3,
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Securities
     (a) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of a Series proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Security of such Series or to transfer such beneficial interest to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Security of such Series, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities to Restricted Definitive Securities
     (i) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such Series proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Security of such Series, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit D hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
     (ii) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
     (iii) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a person who is not a U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
     (iv) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
 
     (v) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (ii) through (iv) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3)(d) thereof, if applicable;
     (vi) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
     (vii) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof,
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Security of such Series to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 1.3.9, and the Company shall execute a Restricted Definitive Security of such Series in the appropriate principal amount and, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Restricted Definitive Security pursuant to Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the person designated in the instructions such Restricted Definitive Security. Any Restricted Definitive Security of such Series issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such Series pursuant to this Section 1.3.5 shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary for such Series and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Restricted Definitive Securities of such Series to the persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Restricted Definitive Security of such Series issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such Series pursuant to this Section 1.3.5(a) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
     (b) . A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of a Series may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such Series or may transfer such beneficial interest to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such Series only if:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
     (i) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and Section 1.3.8, and the holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies that it is not (1) a Broker-Dealer, (2) a person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Securities or (3) a person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company;
 
     (ii) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
     (iii) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
     (iv) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such Series proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such Series, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit D hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or (2) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such Series proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such Series, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (iv), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
     (c) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of a Series proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such Series or to transfer such beneficial interest to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such Series, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 1.3.4(b), the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Unrestricted Global Security of such Series to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 1.3.9, and the Company shall execute an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such Series in the appropriate principal amount and, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Unrestricted Definitive Security in accordance with Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the person designated in the instructions such Unrestricted Definitive Security. Any Unrestricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 1.3.5(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from or through the Depositary for such Series and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Unrestricted Definitive Securities to the persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Unrestricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 1.3.5(c) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
 
          1.3.6. .
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Beneficial Interests
     (a) . If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Security of a Series proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such Series or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Securities of such Series to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such Series, then, upon receipt by the Trustee of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities
     (i) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Security of such Series proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of such Series, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit D hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
     (ii) if such Restricted Definitive Security of such Series is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
     (iii) if such Restricted Definitive Security of such Series is being transferred to a person who is not a U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
     (iv) if such Restricted Definitive Security of such Series is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
     (v) if such Restricted Definitive Security of such Series is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (ii) through (iv) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3)(d) thereof, if applicable;
     (vi) if such Restricted Definitive Security of such Series is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
     (vii) if such Restricted Definitive Security of such Series is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof,
the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Security of such Series, increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (i) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Security of such Series and, in the case of
 
clause (ii) above, the 144A Global Security of such Series and, in the case of clause (iii) above, the Regulation S Global Security of such Series as applicable.
     (b) . A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Security of a Series may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such Series or transfer such Restricted Definitive Security of such Series to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such Series only if:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities
     (i) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and Section 1.3.8, and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies that it is not (1) a Broker-Dealer, (2) a person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Securities or (3) a person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company;
     (ii) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
     (iii) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
     (iv) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities of such Series proposes to exchange such Notes for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Security of such Series, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit D hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or (2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities of such Series proposes to transfer such Notes to a person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Security of such Series, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (iv), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon satisfaction of the conditions of this Section 1.3.6(b), the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Securities of such Series so transferred or exchanged and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Security of such Series.
     (c) . A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of a Series may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such
Unrestricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities
 
Series or transfer such Definitive Securities of such Series to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of such Series at any time. Upon receipt of a written request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Security and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Securities of such Series. If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Security of a Series to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to Sections 1.3.6(b)(ii), 1.3.6(b)(iv) or 1.3.6(c) at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security of such Series has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication of such Unrestricted Global Security in accordance with Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Securities of such Series in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Securities of such Series so transferred.
          1.3.7. . Upon written request by a Holder of Definitive Securities of a Series and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 1.3.7, the Trustee shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Securities of such Series pursuant to the provisions of Section 1.3.1. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Securities of such Series duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition to the requirements set forth in Section 1.3.1, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents, and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 1.3.7.
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Definitive Securities
     (a) . Any Restricted Definitive Security of a Series may be transferred to and registered in the name of persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Security of such Series if the Registrar receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Restricted Definitive Securities
     (i) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 144A, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
     (ii) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and
     (iii) if the transfer will be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
 
     (b) . Any Restricted Definitive Security of a Series may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such Series or transferred to a person or persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such Series if:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
     (i) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and Section 1.3.8, and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies that it is not (1) a Broker-Dealer, (2) a person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Securities or (3) a person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company;
     (ii) any such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
     (iii) any such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
     (iv) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities of such Series proposes to exchange such Notes for an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such Series, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit D hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or (2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities of such Series proposes to transfer such Notes to a person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such Series, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (iv), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
     (c) . A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Securities of a Series may transfer such Notes to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security of such Series in accordance with Section 1.3.1. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Securities of such Series pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
          1.3.8. . Upon the consummation of the Exchange Offer for a Series of Notes in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication of Unrestricted Global Securities of such Series in accordance with Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture and an Opinion of Counsel for the Company as to certain matters discussed in this Section 1.3.8, the Trustee shall authenticate
Exchange Offer
 
(i) one or more Unrestricted Global Securities of such Series in an aggregate principal amount equal to the sum of (A) the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities of such Series tendered for acceptance by persons that certify that (1) they are not Broker-Dealers, (2) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Securities and (3) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company, and accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer and (B) the principal amount of Restricted Definitive Securities of such Series exchanged or transferred for beneficial interests in Unrestricted Global Securities of such Series in connection with the Exchange Offer pursuant to Section 1.3.6(b) by persons that certify that (1) they are not Broker-Dealers, (2) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Securities and (3) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company and (ii) Unrestricted Definitive Securities of such Series in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Securities of such Series accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer (other than Restricted Definitive Securities of such Series described in clause (i)(B) immediately above) and tendered for acceptance by persons that certify that (1) they are not Broker-Dealers, (2) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Securities and (3) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company. Concurrently with the issuance of such Notes, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Securities of such Series to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Unrestricted Definitive Securities of such Series in accordance with Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the persons designated by the Holders of Definitive Securities of such Series so accepted Unrestricted Definitive Securities of such Series in the appropriate principal amount. The Opinion of Counsel for the Company referenced above shall state that the Exchange Securities have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company and, when executed, issued and authenticated in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and delivered in exchange for Securities in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and the Exchange Offer, will be legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to customary exceptions.
          1.3.9. . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Security of a Series have been exchanged for Definitive Securities of such Series or a particular Global Security of a Series has been redeemed, repurchased or cancelled in whole and not in part, each such Global Security of such Series shall be returned to or retained and cancelled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.12 of the Base Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Security of such Series is exchanged for or transferred to a person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security of such Series or for Definitive Securities of such Series, the principal amount of Notes of such Series represented by such Global Security shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement may be made on such Global Security by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security of such Series, such other Global Security shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement may be made on such Global Security by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Securities
 
          1.3.10. . Neither the Company nor the Registrar shall be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of, or exchange Notes of any Series for the period beginning at the opening of business fifteen days immediately preceding the mailing of a notice of redemption of Notes of that Series selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (b) to register the transfer of or exchange Notes of any Series selected, called or being called for redemption as a whole or the portion being redeemed of any such Notes selected, called or being called for redemption in part.
No Exchange or Transfer
          Section 1.4. .
Legend
          This Section 1.4 shall replace Section 2.14.3 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
          1.4.1. Each Restricted Security (and all Restricted Securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear a Private Placement Legend in substantially the following form:
"THIS NOTE HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT") AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER (I) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT AND ANY ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT IS ACTING IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) AND THAT IT EXERCISES SOLE INVESTMENT DISCRETION WITH RESPECT TO EACH SUCH ACCOUNT; OR (B) IT IS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES AND IS NOT A U.S. PERSON (WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) AND (2) AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE ISSUER THAT IT WILL NOT OFFER, SELL, PLEDGE OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS NOTE OR ANY BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES AND ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER OR ONE OF ITS AFFILIATES, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BECOME EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) TO A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (D) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION TO A NON-U.S. PERSON IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND (II) AGREES THAT IT WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT ACQUIRER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER OF THIS NOTE OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN CLAUSE (I) ABOVE. PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (2)(E) ABOVE, THE ISSUER RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY
 
REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY RULE 144 EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT."
     (a) Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Security or Definitive Security issued pursuant to Sections 1.3.4(d), 1.3.5(b), 1.3.5(c), 1.3.6(b), 1.3.6(c), 1.3.7(b), 1.3.7(c) or 1.3.8 (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
          Section 1.5. .
Optional Redemption
          1.5.1. The provisions of Article III of the Base Indenture, as amended by the provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture, shall apply to the Notes.
          1.5.2. At the Company's option, the Notes may be redeemed or purchased, in each case, in whole or in part at any time or from time to time prior to the Stated Maturity of each respective Series of Notes. Upon such redemption of the Notes, the Company shall pay a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
     (a) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
     (b) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of the Notes to be redeemed, discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 15 basis points in the case of the 2013 Notes and 20 basis points in the case of the 2015 Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
          1.5.3. Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date for the Notes, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. On or before the Redemption Date for the Notes, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or a Paying Agent, funds sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of the Notes to be redeemed on the Redemption Date, and (except if the date fixed for redemption shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest, if any. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes shall be redeemed in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Base Indenture.
          1.5.4. Notice of any redemption shall be sent by first-class mail at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each holder of the Notes to be redeemed.
          1.5.5. At any time, the Company may repurchase Notes in the open market and may hold such Notes or surrender such Notes to the Trustee for cancellation pursuant to Section 2.12 of the Base Indenture.
 
          Section 1.6. .
Additional Covenants
          The following additional covenants shall apply with respect to the Notes so long as any of the Notes remain outstanding:
          1.6.1. .
Limitation on Liens
     1.6.1.1. The Company will not (nor will the Company permit any of its Subsidiaries to) create or incur any Lien on any Principal Property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or upon any income or profits therefrom, in order to secure any of the Company's Indebtedness or that of any of its Subsidiaries, without effectively providing that the Notes shall be equally and ratably secured until such time as such Indebtedness is no longer secured by such Lien, except:
     1.6.1.2. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and its Subsidiaries may, without securing the Notes, create or incur Liens which would otherwise be subject to the restrictions set forth in the preceding paragraph, if after giving effect thereto, Aggregate Debt does not exceed the greater of (i) 15% of the Company's Consolidated Net Tangible Assets calculated as of the date of the creation or incurrence of the Lien or (ii) $300.0 million.
          1.6.2. .
Limitation on Sale and Lease-Back Transactions
          The Company will not (nor will the Company permit any Subsidiary of the Company to) enter into any sale and lease-back transaction for the sale and leasing back
 
of any Principal Property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, unless:
     (a) such transaction was entered into prior to the issue date of the Notes;
     (b) such transaction involves a lease for less than three years;
     (c) such transaction involves the sale and leasing back to the Company of any Principal Property by one of its Subsidiaries or the sale and leasing back to one of the Company's Subsidiaries by another of the Company's Subsidiaries;
     (d) the Company or such Subsidiary would be entitled to incur Indebtedness secured by a mortgage on the Principal Property to be leased in an amount at least equal to the Attributable Liens with respect to such sale and lease-back transaction without equally and ratably securing the Notes pursuant to Section 1.6.1 above; or
     (e) the Company applies an amount equal to the fair market value of the Principal Property sold, within 180 days of such sale and lease-back transaction, to any of (or a combination of) (a) the prepayment or retirement of the Notes, (b) the prepayment or retirement of Indebtedness for borrowed money of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company (other than Indebtedness that is subordinated to the Notes) or (c) the purchase, construction, development, expansion or improvement of Principal Property.
     1.6.3. .
Purchase of Notes upon a Change of Control Triggering Event
     (a) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes as described in Section 1.5, each Holder of Notes will have the right to require that the Company purchase all or a portion (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the ""), at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the date of purchase (the ""), subject to the rights of Holders of Notes on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
          Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, the Company must send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder of Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer. Such notice shall state, among other things, the purchase date, which must be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed or, if the notice is mailed prior to the Change of Control, no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date on which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, other than as may be required by law (the ""). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date. Holders of
Change of Control Payment Date
 
Definitive Securities electing to have a Note purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender the Note, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Note completed, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice, or Holders of Global Securities must transfer their Notes to the Paying Agent by book-entry transfer pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the Paying Agent, prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
     (b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
     (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
     (ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and
     (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate Principal Amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased by the Company.
     (c) The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer if a third party makes such an offer in the manner and at the times required and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for such an offer made by the Company, and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Company will not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under this Indenture, other than a Default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
     (d) The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the purchase of Notes pursuant to a Change of Control Offer. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of this Section 1.6.3, the Company will comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 1.6.3 by virtue of any such conflict.
          Section 1.7. .
Defaults and Remedies
          1.7.1. .
Events of Default
          This Section 1.7.1 shall replace Section 6.1 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
 
          Each of the following is an "" with respect to the Notes:
Event of Default
     (a) default in the payment of any interest, including any Additional Interest, on the Notes of such Series when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of that default for a period of 30 days (unless the entire amount of such payment is deposited by the Company with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent prior to the expiration of such 30-day period);
     (b) default in the payment of principal of the Notes of such Series when due and payable;
     (c) default in the performance or breach of any other covenant or warranty by the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty that has been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of a Series of debt securities other than the Notes of such Series), which default continues uncured for a period of 60 days after the Company receives, by registered or certified mail, written notice from the Trustee or the Company and the Trustee receive, by registered or certified mail, written notice from the holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of such Series as provided in this Indenture;
     (d) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
     (i) commences a voluntary case;
     (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case;
     (iii) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property;
     (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or
     (v) generally is unable to pay its debts as the same become due; or
     (e) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
     (i) is for relief against the Company in an involuntary case;
     (ii) appoints a Custodian of the Company or for all or substantially all of its property; or
     (iii) orders the liquidation of the Company,
     and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days.
 
     The term "" means title 11, U.S. Code or any similar Federal or State law for the relief of debtors. The term "" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Bankruptcy Law
Custodian
          No Event of Default with respect to a Series of Notes (other than an Event of Default referred to in Section 1.7.1(d) or (e)) necessarily constitutes an Event of Default with respect to any other Series of debt securities.
          1.7.2. .
Acceleration of Maturity; Recession and Annulment
          This Section 1.7.2 shall replace Section 6.2 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
          If an Event of Default with respect to a Series of Notes occurs and is continuing (other than an Event of Default referred to in Section 1.7.1(d) or 1.7.1(e)), then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of that Series may declare the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all Notes of that Series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders), and upon such declaration such principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 1.7.1(d) or 1.7.1(e) shall occur, the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all outstanding Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of outstanding Notes.
ipso facto
          At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to a Series of Notes has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as provided in this Indenture, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of that Series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such a declaration and its consequences if all Events of Default with respect to the Notes of that Series, other than the non-payment of accelerated principal and interest, if any, with respect to the Notes of that Series, have been cured or waived as provided in this Indenture.
          No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
          1.7.3. .
Limitation on Suits
          This Section 1.7.3 shall replace Section 6.7 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
          No Holder of any Notes of any Series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
     (i) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Notes of that Series;
 
     (ii) the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of that Series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee under the Indenture;
     (iii) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity or security satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request;
     (iv) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity or security has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
     (v) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of that Series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatsoever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all such Holders of the applicable Series.
          Section 2.1. .
Definitions
          Capitalized terms used but not defined in this First Supplemental Indenture shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Base Indenture.
          Section 2.2. .
Confirmation of Indenture
          The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
          Section 2.3. .
Governing Law
          THIS INDENTURE AND THE NOTES, INCLUDING ANY CLAIM OR CONTROVERSY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE INDENTURE OR THE NOTES, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD RESULT IN THE APPLICATION OF ANY LAW OTHER THAN THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
          Section 2.4. .
Severability
          In case any provision in this First Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
          Section 2.5. .
Counterparts
          This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
          Section 2.6. .
No Benefit
          Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any person other than the parties hereto and their successors or assigns, and the Holders of the Notes, any benefit or legal or equitable rights, remedy or claim under this First Supplemental Indenture or the Base Indenture.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
[Insert the Private Placement Legend and/or the Global Security legend, as applicable]
promises to pay to      or registered assigns, the principal sum of [     ] Dollars on November 1, 2013.
Interest Payment Dates: May 1 and November 1
Record Dates: April 15 and October 15
     Each holder of this Note (as defined below), by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and of the Indenture described herein, and authorizes and directs the Trustee described herein on such holder's behalf to be bound by such provisions. Each holder of this Note hereby waives all notice of the acceptance of the provisions contained herein and in the Indenture and waives reliance by such holder upon said provisions.
     This Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been manually signed by or on behalf of the Trustee. The provisions of this Note are continued on the reverse side hereof, and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be signed in accordance with Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture.
Date: [     ]
 
     This is one of the 1.500% Senior Notes due 2013 issued by Broadcom Corporation of the Series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Date: [     ]
 
          This note is one of a duly authorized Series of debt securities of Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation (the ""), issued or to be issued in one or more Series under and pursuant to an Indenture for the Company's debentures, notes or other debt instruments evidencing its Indebtedness, dated as of November 1, 2010 (the ""), duly executed and delivered by and among the Company and Wilmington Trust FSB (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2010 (the ""), by and between the Company and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the "." By the terms of the Base Indenture, the debt securities issuable thereunder are issuable in Series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This note is one of the Series designated on the face hereof (individually, a "," and collectively, the ""), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Notes (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the Base Indenture or the First Supplemental Indenture, as applicable.
Company
Base Indenture
Trustee
First Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Note
Notes
Holders
     1. . The rate at which the Notes shall bear interest shall be 1.500% per year plus Additional Interest, if any, payable pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement. The date from which interest shall accrue on the Notes shall be November 1, 2010, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for. The Interest Payment Dates for the Notes shall be May 1 and November 1 of each year, beginning May 1, 2011. Interest shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date to the holders of record at the close of business on the April 15 and October 15 prior to each Interest Payment Date. The basis upon which interest shall be calculated shall be that of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
     2. . The Company will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest), if any, to the persons in whose name such Notes are registered at the close of business on the regular record date referred to on the facing page of this Note for such interest installment. In the event that the Notes or a portion thereof are called for redemption and the Redemption Date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Notes will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Notes as provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on the Notes shall be payable in Dollars, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the Indenture.
Method of Payment
     3. . Initially, Wilmington Trust FSB, the Trustee, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder.
Paying Agent and Registrar
     4. . The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ("") as in effect on
Indenture
TIA
 
the date the Indenture is qualified. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and TIA for a statement of such terms. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and constitute the Series designated on the face hereof as the "1.500% Senior Notes due 2013", initially limited to $300,000,000 in aggregate principal amount. The Company will furnish to any Holders upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to: Broadcom Corporation, 5300 California Avenue, Irvine, CA 92617 Attention: General Counsel.
     5. . At the Company's option, the Notes may be redeemed or purchased, in each case, in whole or in part at any time or from time to time prior to the Stated Maturity of the Notes, as provided in Section 1.5 of the First Supplemental Indenture.
Optional Redemption
     6. . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem this Note as described in Section 1.5 of the First Supplemental Indenture, the Holder of this Note will have the right to require that the Company purchase all or a portion (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Note pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the date of purchase, subject to the rights of a Holder of this Note on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date. Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, the Company must send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder of Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, in accordance with Section 1.6.3 of the First Supplemental Indenture, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer.
Change of Control Triggering Event
     7. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in Section 1.3 of the Indenture. The Notes may be presented for exchange or for registration of transfer at the office of the Company or its agency designated by the Company for such purpose. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable upon exchanges pursuant to Sections 2.11, 3.6 or 9.6 of the Base Indenture). Neither the Company nor the Registrar shall be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of, or exchange Notes for the period beginning at the opening of business fifteen days immediately preceding the mailing of a notice of redemption of Notes selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (b) to register the transfer of or exchange Notes selected, called or being called for redemption as a whole or the portion being redeemed of any such Notes selected, called or being called for redemption in part.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
     8. . The person in whose name this Note is registered may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
 
     9. . The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for the payment of principal and interest that remains unclaimed for two years. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
Repayment to the Company
     10. . The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Notes without the consent of any Holder: (a) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, (b) to comply with Article V of the Base Indenture (c) to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes, (d) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder, (e) to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of Notes as permitted by the Indenture, (f) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes and to add to or change any of the provisions of the Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts thereunder by more than one Trustee, or (g) to comply with requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA. The Company and the Trustee may enter into a supplemental indenture with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes affected by such supplemental indenture (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Notes), for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Notes. Except as provided in Section 6.13 of the Base Indenture, the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes by notice to the Trustee (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Notes) may waive compliance by the Company with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes.
Amendments, Supplements and Waivers
     11. . If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes occurs and is continuing (other than an Event of Default in Sections 1.7.1(d) or 1.7.1(e) of the First Supplemental Indenture), then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may declare the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all the Notes to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders), and upon such declaration such principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 1.7.1(d) or 1.7.1(e) of the First Supplemental Indenture shall occur, the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all outstanding Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of outstanding Notes. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, if an Event of Default under the Indenture shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Notes.
Defaults and Remedies
ipso facto
 
     12. . The Trustee, subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent or Registrar.
Trustee May Hold Securities
     13. . A director, officer, employee or stockholder (past or present), as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
     14. . The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to discharge and defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
Discharge of Indenture
     15. . This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication attached to the other side of this Note.
Authentication
     16. . The Company is obligated to pay Additional Amounts on this Note to the extent provided in the Indenture.
Additional Amounts
     17. . In addition to the rights provided to the Holders of Notes under the Indenture, Holders shall have all the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 1, 2010, by and among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof.
Registration Rights Agreement
     18. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
     19. . THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE, INCLUDING ANY CLAIM OR CONTROVERSY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE INDENTURE OR THIS NOTE, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD RESULT IN THE APPLICATION OF ANY LAW OTHER THAN THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
 
     To assign this Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to:
___________________________      (Insert assignee's legal name)
agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
Date: __________
 
     If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.6.3 of the First Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
     If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.6.3 of the First Supplemental Indenture, state the amount: $______.
 
     The following exchanges of a part of this Global Security for an interest in another Global Security or for a Definitive Security, or exchanges of a part of another Global Security or Definitive Security for an interest in this Global Security, have been made:
 
 
[Insert the Private Placement Legend and/or the Global Security legend, as applicable]
promises to pay to                     or registered assigns, the principal sum of [          ] Dollars on November 1, 2015.
Interest Payment Dates: May 1 and November 1
Record Dates: April 15 and October 15
     Each holder of this Note (as defined below), by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and of the Indenture described herein, and authorizes and directs the Trustee described herein on such holder's behalf to be bound by such provisions. Each holder of this Note hereby waives all notice of the acceptance of the provisions contained herein and in the Indenture and waives reliance by such holder upon said provisions.
     This Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been manually signed by or on behalf of the Trustee. The provisions of this Note are continued on the reverse side hereof, and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be signed in accordance with Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture.
Date: [           ]
 
     This is one of the 2.375% Senior Notes due 2015 issued by Broadcom Corporation of the Series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Date: [          ]
 
          This note is one of a duly authorized Series of debt securities of Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation (the ""), issued or to be issued in one or more Series under and pursuant to an Indenture for the Company's debentures, notes or other debt instruments evidencing its Indebtedness, dated as of November 1, 2010 (the ""), duly executed and delivered by and among the Company and Wilmington Trust FSB (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2010 (the ""), by and between the Company and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the "." By the terms of the Base Indenture, the debt securities issuable thereunder are issuable in Series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This note is one of the Series designated on the face hereof (individually, a "," and collectively, the ""), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Notes (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the Base Indenture or the First Supplemental Indenture, as applicable.
Company
Base Indenture
Trustee
First Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Note
Notes
Holders
     1. . The rate at which the Notes shall bear interest shall be 2.375% per year plus Additional Interest, if any, payable pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement. The date from which interest shall accrue on the Notes shall be November 1, 2010, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for. The Interest Payment Dates for the Notes shall be May 1 and November 1 of each year, beginning May 1, 2011. Interest shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date to the holders of record at the close of business on the April 15 and October 15 prior to each Interest Payment Date. The basis upon which interest shall be calculated shall be that of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
     2. . The Company will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest), if any, to the persons in whose name such Notes are registered at the close of business on the regular record date referred to on the facing page of this Note for such interest installment. In the event that the Notes or a portion thereof are called for redemption and the Redemption Date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Notes will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Notes as provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on the Notes shall be payable in Dollars, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the Indenture.
Method of Payment
     3. . Initially, Wilmington Trust FSB, the Trustee, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder.
Paying Agent and Registrar
     4. . The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ("") as in effect on
Indenture
TIA
 
the date the Indenture is qualified. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and TIA for a statement of such terms. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and constitute the Series designated on the face hereof as the "2.375% Senior Notes due 2015", initially limited to $400,000,000 in aggregate principal amount. The Company will furnish to any Holders upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to: Broadcom Corporation, 5300 California Avenue, Irvine, CA 92617 Attention: General Counsel.
     5. . At the Company's option, the Notes may be redeemed or purchased, in each case, in whole or in part at any time or from time to time prior to the Stated Maturity of the Notes, as provided in Section 1.5 of the First Supplemental Indenture.
Optional Redemption
     The Notes will not have the benefit of any sinking fund.
     6. . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem this Note as described in Section 1.5 of the First Supplemental Indenture, the Holder of this Note will have the right to require that the Company purchase all or a portion (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Note pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the date of purchase, subject to the rights of a Holder of this Note on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date. Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, the Company must send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder of Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, in accordance with Section 1.6.3 of the First Supplemental Indenture, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer.
Change of Control Triggering Event
     7. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in Section 1.3 of the Indenture. The Notes may be presented for exchange or for registration of transfer at the office of the Company or its agency designated by the Company for such purpose. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable upon exchanges pursuant to Sections 2.11, 3.6 or 9.6 of the Base Indenture). Neither the Company nor the Registrar shall be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of, or exchange Notes for the period beginning at the opening of business fifteen days immediately preceding the mailing of a notice of redemption of Notes selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (b) to register the transfer of or exchange Notes selected, called or being called for redemption as a whole or the portion being redeemed of any such Notes selected, called or being called for redemption in part.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
     8. . The person in whose name this Note is registered may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
     9. . The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for the payment of principal and interest that remains unclaimed for two years. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
Repayment to the Company
     10. . The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Notes without the consent of any Holder: (a) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, (b) to comply with Article V of the Base Indenture (c) to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes, (d) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder, (e) to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of Notes as permitted by the Indenture, (f) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes and to add to or change any of the provisions of the Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts thereunder by more than one Trustee, or (g) to comply with requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA. The Company and the Trustee may enter into a supplemental indenture with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes affected by such supplemental indenture (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Notes), for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Notes. Except as provided in Section 6.13 of the Base Indenture, the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes by notice to the Trustee (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Notes) may waive compliance by the Company with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes.
Amendments, Supplements and Waivers
     11. . If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes occurs and is continuing (other than an Event of Default in Sections 1.7.1(d) or 1.7.1(e) of the First Supplemental Indenture), then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may declare the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all the Notes to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders), and upon such declaration such principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 1.7.1(d) or 1.7.1(e) of the First Supplemental Indenture shall occur, the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all outstanding Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of outstanding Notes. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, if an Event of Default under the Indenture shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any
Defaults and Remedies
ipso facto
 
proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Notes.
     12. . The Trustee, subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent or Registrar.
Trustee May Hold Securities
     13. . A director, officer, employee or stockholder (past or present), as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
     14. . The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to discharge and defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
Discharge of Indenture
     15. . This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication attached to the other side of this Note.
Authentication
     16. . The Company is obligated to pay Additional Amounts on this Note to the extent provided in the Indenture.
Additional Amounts
     17. . In addition to the rights provided to the Holders of Notes under the Indenture, Holders shall have all the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 1, 2010, by and among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof.
Registration Rights Agreement
     18. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
     19. . THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE, INCLUDING ANY CLAIM OR CONTROVERSY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE INDENTURE OR THIS NOTE, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD RESULT IN THE APPLICATION OF ANY LAW OTHER THAN THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
 
     To assign this Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to:
________________________________
     (Insert assignee's legal name)
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
 
Date:
                    
Your Signature: (Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Note)
            
                     
                     
                     
 
     If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.6.3 of the First Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
     If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.6.3 of the First Supplemental Indenture, state the amount: $______.
 
     The following exchanges of a part of this Global Security for an interest in another Global Security or for a Definitive Security, or exchanges of a part of another Global Security or Definitive Security for an interest in this Global Security, have been made:
 
 
Broadcom Corporation 5300 California Avenue Irvine, CA 92617 Attention: General Counsel
Wilmington Trust FSB 246 Goose Lane, Suite 105 Guilford, CT 06437 Attn: Joseph P. O'Donnell
Re: [1.500% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2013][2.375% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2015]
Ladies and Gentlemen,
     Reference is hereby made to the indenture, dated as of November 1, 2010 (the ""), between Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation (the "") and Wilmington Trust FSB, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by that certain first supplemental indenture dated as of November 1, 2010 (the "" and together with the Base Indenture, the "") between the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture. _____ (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Note or Notes or interest[s] in such Note or Notes specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $_____ in such Note or Notes or interest[s] (the ""), to _____ (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
Base Indenture
Company
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Transferor
Transfer
Transferee
[CHECK ALL THAT APPLY]
     1. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Security is being transferred to a person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Security for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such person exercises sole investment discretion, and such person and each such account is a "" within the meaning of Rule 144A (a "") in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Security and/or the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Security or a Definitive Security Pursuant to Rule 144A
.
Securities Act
qualified institutional buyer
QIB
 
     2.  The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (y) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (z) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the proposed Transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period, the Transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person (as such is defined in Regulation S) or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an initial purchaser of the Notes) and the interest transferred will be held immediately thereafter through Euroclear or Clearstream. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Security and/or the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security or a Definitive Security pursuant to Regulation S
.
     3.  . The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Securities and Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
o
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Definitive Security pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S
          (a) Such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act; or
o
          (b) Such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a Subsidiary thereof; or
o
          (c) Such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act; or
o
          (d) Such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or Rule 903 or Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Security or Restricted
o
 
Definitive Security and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form attached as Exhibit E to the Indenture and (2) an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
     4.  .
o
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or of an Unrestricted Definitive Security
          (a) (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities, on Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Transfer is pursuant to Rule 144.
          (b) (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities, on Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S.
          (c) (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or Rule 903 or Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities or Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture.
o
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption.
 
     This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
[CHECK ONE OF (a) OR (b)]
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
Broadcom Corporation 5300 California Avenue Irvine, CA 92617 Attention: General Counsel
Wilmington Trust FSB 246 Goose Lane, Suite 105 Guilford, CT 06437 Attn: Joseph P. O'Donnell
Re: [1.500% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2013][2.375% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2015]
Ladies and Gentlemen,
     Reference is hereby made to the indenture, dated as of November 1, 2010 (the ""), between Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation (the "") and Wilmington Trust FSB, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by that certain first supplemental indenture dated as of November 1, 2010 (the "" and together with the Base Indenture, the "") between the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture. _____, (the "") owns and proposes to exchange the Note or Notes or interest[s] in such Note or Notes specified herein, in the principal amount of $_____ in such Note or Notes or interest[s] (the ""). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
Base Indenture
Company
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Owner
Exchange
     1. .
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Unrestricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Security
          (a) In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security.
Securities Act
 
          (b) In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for an Unrestricted Definitive Security in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to Unrestricted Definitive Security.
          (c) In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security.
          (d) In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Security for an Unrestricted Definitive Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to Unrestricted Definitive Security.
     2. 
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities for Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities
.
          (a) In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a Restricted Definitive Security with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Security issued will continue to be subject to the
o
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to Restricted Definitive Security.
 
restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
          (b) In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Security for a beneficial interest in the: [CHECK ONE] 144A Global Security or Regulation S Global Security with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security
.
o
o
     This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
Broadcom Corporation 5300 California Avenue Irvine, CA 92617 Attention: General Counsel
Wilmington Trust FSB 246 Goose Lane, Suite 105 Guilford, CT 06437 Attn: Joseph P. O'Donnell
Re: [1.500% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2013][2.375% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2015]
Ladies and Gentlemen,
     Reference is hereby made to the indenture, dated as of November 1, 2010 (the ""), between Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation (the "") and Wilmington Trust FSB, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by that certain first supplemental indenture dated as of November 1, 2010 (the "" and together with the Base Indenture, the "") between the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Base Indenture
Company
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
     In connection with our proposed purchase of $_____ aggregate principal amount of: (a) a beneficial interest in a Global Security, or (b) a Definitive Security, we confirm that:
     1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
     2. We understand that the offer and sale of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, we will do so only (1) to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (2) in the United States to a person whom the seller reasonably believes is a "" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A, (3) outside the United States in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 904 under the Securities Act, (4) to an institutional "" (as defined below) that, prior to such transfer furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. Broker-Dealer) to you and to the
qualified institutional buyer
accredited investor
 
Company a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and an Opinion of Counsel in the form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (4) pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act provided by Rule 144 thereunder (if available) or (5) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, in each of cases (1) through (5) in accordance with any applicable securities laws of any state of the United States, and we further agree to notify any purchaser of the Notes from us of the resale restrictions referred to above.
     3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that any subsequent transfer by us of the Notes or beneficial interest therein acquired by us must be effected through one of the initial purchasers of the Notes.
     4. We are an institutional "" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
accredited investor
     5. We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion.
accredited investor
     You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.

Exhibit 4.3
Execution Version
 
     This Registration Rights Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and entered into as of November 1, 2010, by and among Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation (the "Company"), and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (as successor in interest to Banc of America Securities LLC), J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and other initial purchasers (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers"), each of whom has agreed to purchase the Company's (i) 1.50% Senior Notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes") and (ii) 2.375% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes", and together with the 2013 Notes, the "Initial Securities") pursuant to the Purchase Agreement (as defined below).
     This Agreement is made pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated October 27, 2010 (the "Purchase Agreement"), among the Company and the Initial Purchasers (i) for the benefit of the Initial Purchasers and (ii) for the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Initial Securities, including the Initial Purchasers. In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to purchase the Initial Securities, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers set forth in Section 5(g) of the Purchase Agreement.
     The parties hereby agree as follows:
     SECTION 1. . As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
     As defined in the preamble hereto.
2013 Notes:
     As defined in the preamble hereto.
2015 Notes:
     As defined in Section 5 hereof.
Additional Interest:
     As defined in Section 6 hereof.
Advice:
     : Of any specified Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, control of a Person shall mean the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" shall have the meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
     Any broker or dealer registered under the Exchange Act.
Broker-Dealer:
     Any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or U.S. federal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies located in New York, New York are authorized or obligated to be closed.
Business Day:
     The date of this Agreement.
Closing Date:
     The United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission:
 
     A registered Exchange Offer shall be deemed "Consummated" for purposes of this Agreement upon the occurrence of (i) the filing and effectiveness under the Securities Act of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement relating to the Exchange Securities to be issued in the Exchange Offer, (ii) the maintenance of such Registration Statement continuously effective and the keeping of the Exchange Offer open for a period not less than the minimum period required pursuant to Section 3(b) hereof, and (iii) the delivery by the Company to the Registrar under the Indenture of Exchange Securities in the same aggregate principal amount as the aggregate principal amount of Initial Securities that were properly tendered and not withdrawn by Holders thereof pursuant to the Exchange Offer prior to the expiration thereof.
Consummate:
     The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act:
     The registration by the Company under the Securities Act of the issuance and exchange of the Exchange Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement pursuant to which the Company offers the Holders of all outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities the opportunity to exchange all such outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities held by such Holders for Exchange Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities tendered in such exchange offer by such Holders.
Exchange Offer:
     The Registration Statement relating to the Exchange Offer, including the related Prospectus.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement:
     The transactions in which the Initial Purchasers propose to sell the Initial Securities to certain "qualified institutional buyers," as such term is defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act and to certain non-U.S. persons pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Exempt Resales:
     The securities issued by the Company under the Indenture containing terms identical to each series of the Initial Securities (except that (i) interest thereon shall accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the Initial Securities or, if no such interest has been paid, from the Closing Date, and (ii) the Exchange Securities will not contain restrictions on transfer), to be issued to Holders in exchange for Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to this Agreement.
Exchange Securities:
     The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
FINRA:
     As defined in Section 2(b) hereof.
Holders:
     As defined in Section 8(a) hereof.
Indemnified Holder:
     The Indenture, dated as of the Closing Date, by and between the Company and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a supplemental indenture dated as of the Closing Date, pursuant to which the Securities are to be issued, as such Indenture is amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture:
     The issuance and sale by the Company of the Initial Securities to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the Purchase Agreement.
Initial Placement:
 
     As defined in the preamble hereto.
Initial Purchasers:
     As defined in the preamble hereto.
Initial Securities:
     As defined in the Indenture and the Initial Securities.
Interest Payment Date:
     An individual, partnership, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person:
     The prospectus included in a Registration Statement, as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement and by all other amendments thereto, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference into such Prospectus.
Prospectus:
     As defined in Section 5 hereof.
Registration Default:
     Any registration statement of the Company relating to (a) an offering of Exchange Securities pursuant to an Exchange Offer or (b) the registration for resale of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, which is filed pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, in each case, including the Prospectus included therein, all amendments and supplements thereto (including post-effective amendments) and all exhibits and material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement:
     The Initial Securities and the Exchange Securities.
Securities:
     The Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act:
     As defined in Section 4(a) hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement:
     As defined in Section 5 hereof.
Suspension Period:
     Each Initial Security, until the earliest to occur of (a) the date on which such Initial Security has been offered to be exchanged for an Exchange Security in the Exchange Offer, (b) the date on which such Initial Security has been effectively registered under the Securities Act and disposed of in accordance with a Shelf Registration Statement, (c) the date on which such Initial Security is actually transferred pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, (d) the date on which such Initial Security ceases to be outstanding and (e) the date two years from the Closing Date.
Transfer Restricted Securities:
     The Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
Trust Indenture Act:
     A registration in which securities of the Company are sold to an underwriter for reoffering to the public. No Underwritten Registration or Underwritten Offering may be effected without the prior consent of the Company, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld by the Company.
Underwritten Registration or Underwritten Offering:
     SECTION 2.
Securities Subject to this Agreement.
 
          (a)The securities entitled to the benefits of this Agreement are the Transfer Restricted Securities.
 Transfer Restricted Securities.
          (b)A Person is deemed to be a holder of Transfer Restricted Securities (each, a "Holder") whenever such Person owns Transfer Restricted Securities.
 Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities.
     SECTION 3. .
Registered Exchange Offer
          (a) Unless the Exchange Offer shall not be permissible under applicable law or Commission policy (after the procedures set forth in Section 6(a) hereof have been complied with), the Company shall on or prior to the 365th day after the Closing Date (or if such 365 day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), use its commercially reasonable efforts to (i) file a Registration Statement under the Securities Act relating to the Exchange Securities and the Exchange Offer with the Commission, (ii) have such Registration Statement declared effective by the Commission, (iii) upon the effectiveness of such Registration Statement, commence the Exchange Offer, and (iv) consummate the Exchange Offer and issue, on or prior to 30 Business Days after the date on which such Registration Statement was declared effective by the Commission (or if such 30 day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), Exchange Securities in exchange for all Initial Securities properly tendered prior thereto in the Exchange Offer. The Exchange Offer Registration Statement shall be on the appropriate form permitting registration of the Exchange Securities to be offered in exchange for the Transfer Restricted Securities and to permit resales of Initial Securities held by Broker-Dealers as contemplated by Section 3(c) hereof.
th
th
          (b) The Company shall cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be effective continuously and shall keep the Exchange Offer open for at least 20 Business Days (or longer, if required by applicable law or otherwise extended by the Company, at the Company's option) after the date notice of the Exchange Offer is mailed to the Holders. The Company shall cause the Exchange Offer to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws. No securities other than the Exchange Securities shall be included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
          (c) The Company shall indicate in a "Plan of Distribution" section contained in the Prospectus forming a part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement that any Broker-Dealer who holds Initial Securities that are Transfer Restricted Securities and that were acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (other than Transfer Restricted Securities acquired directly from the Company), may exchange such Initial Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer; however, such Broker-Dealer may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and must, therefore, deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resales of the Exchange Securities received by such Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offer, which prospectus delivery requirement may be satisfied by the delivery by such Broker-Dealer of the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. Such "Plan of Distribution" section shall also contain all other information with respect to such resales by Broker-Dealers that the Commission may require in order to permit such resales pursuant thereto, but such "Plan of
 
Distribution" shall not name any such Broker-Dealer or disclose the amount of Initial Securities held by any such Broker-Dealer except to the extent required by the Commission.
     The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the provisions of Section 6(c) hereof to the extent necessary to ensure that it is available for resales of Initial Securities acquired by Broker-Dealers for their own accounts as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, and to ensure that it conforms with the requirements of this Agreement, the Securities Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, for a period ending on the earlier of (i) 120 days from the date on which the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective and (ii) the date on which a Broker-Dealer is no longer required to deliver a prospectus in connection with market-making or other trading activities.
     The Company shall provide sufficient copies of the latest version of such Prospectus to Broker-Dealers promptly upon request at any time during such 120-day (or shorter as provided in the foregoing sentence) period in order to facilitate such resales.
     SECTION 4..
Shelf Registration
     (a)If (i) the Company is not required to file an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or permitted to consummate the Exchange Offer because the Exchange Offer is not permitted by applicable law or Commission policy, or (ii) with respect to any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities, such Holder notifies the Company prior to the 10th Business Day following the consummation of the Exchange Offer that such Holder (A) is prohibited by applicable law or Commission policy from participating in the Exchange Offer, or (B) may not resell the Exchange Securities acquired by it in the Exchange Offer to the public without delivering a prospectus and that the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not appropriate or available for such resales by such Holder, or (C) is a Broker-Dealer and holds Initial Securities acquired directly from the Company or one of its Affiliates, or (D) is an Affiliate of the Company and will not receive the Exchange Securities in the Exchange Offer that may be freely transferred without restriction under the federal securities laws, then, upon such Holder's request, the Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to file with the Commission a shelf registration statement pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act, which may be an amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (in either event, the "Shelf Registration Statement") and to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective by the Commission on or prior to the 365 day after the day the obligation to file such Shelf Registration Statement arises (or if such 365 day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day); that in no event will such Shelf Registration Statement provide for an underwritten offering of Transfer Restricted Securities without the prior consent of the Company, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld by the Company.
 Shelf Registration.
th
th
provided
     The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the provisions of Sections 6(b) and (c) hereof to the extent necessary to ensure that it is available for resales of Initial Securities by the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities entitled to the benefit of this Section 4(a), and to ensure that it conforms with the requirements of this Agreement, the
 
Securities Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, for a period of at least two years following the effective date of such Shelf Registration Statement (or shorter period that will terminate when all the Initial Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement cease to be Transfer Restricted Securities).
          (b)No Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities may include any of its Transfer Restricted Securities in any Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement or benefit from the provisions regarding Additional Interest set forth herein unless and until such Holder furnishes to the Company in writing, within 15 Business Days after receipt of a request therefor, such information (including comments to such Shelf Registration Statement) as the Company may reasonably request for use in connection with any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus included therein. Each Holder as to which any Shelf Registration Statement is being effected agrees to furnish promptly to the Company all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Holder not materially misleading.
 Provision by Holders of Certain Information in Connection with the Shelf Registration Statement.
     SECTION 5.If (i) the Exchange Offer has not been Consummated within 365 days after the Closing Date or (ii) any Registration Statement required by this Agreement is filed and declared effective but thereafter cease to be effective or usable for its intended purpose (other than during a Suspension Period (as defined below)) without being succeeded within 10 Business Days by any additional Registration Statement or post-effective amendment that is filed and subsequently declared effective and cures the failure of such Registration Statement to be effective or usable (each such event referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above, a "Registration Default"), then the Company hereby agrees that the interest rate borne by the Transfer Restricted Securities shall be increased ("Additional Interest") by 0.25% per annum during the first 90-day period immediately following the occurrence of any Registration Default and shall increase by an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period until all Registration Defaults have been cured, up to a maximum amount of Additional Interest for all Registration Defaults of 0.50% per annum. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults relating to any particular Transfer Restricted Securities, the accrual of Additional Interest will cease and the interest rate borne by the relevant Transfer Restricted Securities will be reduced to the original interest rate borne by such Transfer Restricted Securities; that, if after any such reduction in interest rate, a different Registration Default occurs, the interest rate borne by the relevant Transfer Restricted Securities shall again be increased pursuant to the foregoing provisions. All accrued and unpaid Additional Interest shall be paid by the Company on each applicable Interest Payment Date. The sole remedy for all Registration Defaults shall be the payment of Additional Interest as set forth herein.
Additional Interest.
provided, however,
     All obligations of the Company set forth in the preceding paragraph that are outstanding with respect to any Transfer Restricted Security at the time such security ceases to be a Transfer Restricted Security shall survive until such time as all such obligations with respect to such security shall have been satisfied in full.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall be permitted to suspend the use of a Shelf Registration Statement without paying Additional Interest for a period not to exceed 60
 
consecutive calendar days or an aggregate of 90 calendar days in any twelve-month period (a "Suspension Period"), if, in the Company's good faith determination, the continued effectiveness of such Shelf Registration Statement and the use of the related Prospectus would require the public disclosure of material non-public information of the Company. As promptly as practicable following its good faith determination that the event causing the Suspension Period set forth in the preceding sentence no longer exists, the Company shall terminate the Suspension Period and notify each Holder of such termination.
     SECTION 6..
Registration Procedures
          (a)In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Company shall comply with all of the applicable provisions of Section 6(c) hereof, and shall comply with all of the following provisions:
 Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
     (i) As a condition to its participation in the Exchange Offer pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities shall furnish, upon the request of the Company, prior to the Consummation thereof, a written representation to the Company (which may be contained in the letter of transmittal contemplated by the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) to the effect that (A) it is not an Affiliate of the Company, (B) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Securities and (C) it is acquiring the Exchange Securities in the ordinary course of its business. In addition, all such Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities shall otherwise cooperate in the Company's preparations for the Exchange Offer. Each Holder hereby acknowledges and agrees that any Broker-Dealer and any such Holder using the Exchange Offer to participate in a distribution of the securities to be acquired in the Exchange Offer (1) could not under Commission policy as in effect on the date of this Agreement rely on the position of the Commission enunciated in (available June 5, 1991) and (available May 13, 1988), as interpreted in the Commission's letter to Shearman & Sterling dated July 2, 1993, and similar no-action letters, and (2) must comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act in connection with a secondary resale transaction and that such a secondary resale transaction should be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security holder information required by Item 507 or 508, as applicable, of Regulation S-K if the resales are of Exchange Securities obtained by such Holder in exchange for Initial Securities acquired by such Holder directly from the Company.
Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc.
Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation
          (b)In connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall comply with all the provisions of Section 6(c) hereof.
 Shelf Registration Statement.
          (c)In connection with any Registration Statement and any Prospectus required by this Agreement to permit the sale or resale of Transfer Restricted Securities (including, without limitation, any Registration Statement and the related Prospectus required to permit resales of Initial Securities by Broker-Dealers), the Company shall:
 General Provisions.
 
     (i) use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective and provide all requisite financial statements for the period specified in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable; upon the occurrence of any event that would cause any such Registration Statement or the Prospectus contained therein (A) to contain a material misstatement or omission or (B) not to be effective and usable for resale of Transfer Restricted Securities during the period required by this Agreement, the Company shall file promptly an appropriate amendment to such Registration Statement, in the case of clause (A), correcting any such misstatement or omission, and, in the case of either clause (A) or (B), use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such amendment to be declared effective and such Registration Statement and the related Prospectus to become usable for their intended purpose(s) as soon as practicable thereafter;
     (ii) prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and post-effective amendments to the applicable Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep the Registration Statement effective for the applicable period set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable, or such shorter period as will terminate when all Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement cease to be Transfer Restricted Securities; cause the Prospectus to be supplemented by any required Prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act, and to comply fully with the applicable provisions of Rules 424 and 430A under the Securities Act in a timely manner; and comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the sellers thereof set forth in such Registration Statement or supplement to the Prospectus;
     (iii) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement or an Exchange Offer Registration Statement maintained as effective following the closing of the Exchange Offer during the applicable period set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, advise the underwriter(s), if any, selling Holders named in a Shelf Registration Statement, and each Broker-Dealer that has requested or received a copy of the Prospectus promptly, (A) when the Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to any Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto, when the same has become effective, (B) of any request by the Commission for amendments to the Registration Statement or amendments or supplements to the Prospectus or for additional information relating thereto, (C) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement under the Securities Act or of the suspension by any state securities commission of the qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation of any proceeding for any of the preceding purposes, (D) of the existence of any fact or the happening of any event that makes any statement of a material fact made in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, any amendment or supplement thereto, or any document incorporated by reference therein untrue, or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus in order to make the statements therein (with respect to the Prospectus, in light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading. Notwithstanding the
 
foregoing, if at any time the Commission shall issue any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement or Exchange Offer Registration Statement, or any state securities commission or other regulatory authority shall issue an order suspending the qualification or exemption from qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities under state securities or blue sky laws, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal or lifting of such order at the earliest possible time;
     (iv) furnish without charge to each of the Initial Purchasers, each selling Holder named in any Shelf Registration Statement, and each of the underwriter(s), if any, before filing with the Commission, copies of any Shelf Registration Statement or any Prospectus included therein or any amendments or supplements to any such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all documents incorporated by reference after the initial filing of such Shelf Registration Statement), which documents will be subject to the review and comment of such Holders and underwriter(s) in connection with such sale, if any, for a reasonable period prior to filing (but in any case not more than five Business Days), and the Company will not file any such Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all such documents incorporated by reference) to which an Initial Purchaser of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement or the underwriter(s), if any, shall reasonably object in writing within five Business Days after the receipt thereof (such objection to be deemed timely made upon confirmation of telecopy transmission within such period). The objection of an Initial Purchaser or underwriter, if any, shall be deemed to be reasonable if such Shelf Registration Statement, amendment, Prospectus or supplement, as applicable, as proposed to be filed, contains a material misstatement or omission. This clause (iv) shall not apply to any filing through EDGAR by the Company of any annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly report on Form 10-Q or current report on Form 8-K with respect to matters unrelated to the Transfer Restricted Securities and the offering or exchange therefor;
     (v) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement and subject to Section 4(a), make available at reasonable times for inspection by the Initial Purchasers, the managing underwriter(s), if any, participating in any disposition pursuant to such Registration Statement and not more than one law firm or accounting firm retained by such Initial Purchasers or any of the underwriter(s), all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and cause the Company's officers, directors and employees to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Holder, underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with such Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto subsequent to the filing thereof and prior to its effectiveness and to participate in meetings with investors to the extent requested by the managing underwriter(s), if any;
     (vi) if reasonably requested by the underwriter(s), if any, or a Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities under a Shelf Registration Statement, promptly incorporate in any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus, pursuant to a supplement or post-effective amendment if necessary, such information as such underwriter(s), if any, or Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities may reasonably request to have included
 
therein, including, without limitation, information relating to the "Plan of Distribution" of the Transfer Restricted Securities, information with respect to the principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities being sold to such underwriter(s), the purchase price being paid therefor and any other terms of the offering of the Transfer Restricted Securities to be sold in such offering; and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment as soon as practicable after the Company is notified of the matters to be incorporated in such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment;
     (vii) use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Registration Statement to be rated with the appropriate rating agencies, if so requested by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Securities covered thereby or the underwriter(s), if any;
     (viii) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, furnish to each Initial Purchaser, each selling Holder and each of the underwriter(s), if any, without charge, at least one copy of the Shelf Registration Statement, as first filed with the Commission, and of each amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules, all documents incorporated by reference therein and all exhibits (including exhibits incorporated therein by reference);
     (ix) deliver to each selling Holder and each of the underwriter(s), if any, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary prospectus) and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Persons reasonably may request; the Company hereby consents to the use of the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders and each of the underwriter(s), if any, in connection with the offering and the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto;
     (x) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement and subject to Section 4(a), enter into such customary agreements (including an underwriting agreement), and make such customary representations and warranties, and take all such other actions, all to such extent as may be reasonably requested by any Initial Purchaser or by any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities or underwriter in connection with any sale or resale pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement; and in connection solely with an Underwritten Registration, the Company shall:
     (A) furnish to each Initial Purchaser, each selling Holder and each underwriter, if any, in such substance and scope as they may reasonably request and as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings, upon the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement:
     (1) a certificate, dated the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, signed by (y) the President or any Vice President and (z) a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company, attesting to the matters set forth in Section 5(f) of the Purchase Agreement and such other matters as such parties may reasonably request;
 
     (2) an opinion, dated the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, of counsel for the Company, covering matters substantially similar to the matters set forth in Section 5(d) of the Purchase Agreement; and
     (3) a customary comfort letter, dated the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, from the Company's independent accountants, in the customary form and covering matters of the type customarily requested to be covered in comfort letters by underwriters in connection with primary underwritten offerings, and covering or affirming the matters set forth in the comfort letters delivered pursuant to Section 5(a) of the Purchase Agreement, without exception;
     (B) set forth in full or incorporate by reference in the underwriting agreement, if any, the indemnification provisions and procedures of Section 8 hereof with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section; and
     (C) deliver such other documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the managing underwriter, if any, and the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities to evidence compliance with Section 6(c)(x)(A) hereof and with any customary conditions contained in the underwriting agreement or other agreement entered into by the Company pursuant to this Section 6(c)(x), if any.
     If at any time the representations and warranties of the Company contemplated in Section 6(c)(x)(A)(1) hereof cease to be true and correct, the Company shall so advise the Initial Purchasers and the underwriter(s), if any, and each selling Holder promptly;
     (xi) prior to any public offering of Transfer Restricted Securities, use commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify the Transfer Restricted Securities under the state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as the selling Holders or underwriter(s), if any, may request and do any and all other acts or things necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement; , that the Company shall not be required to register or qualify as a foreign entity where it is not then so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to the service of process in suits or to taxation in any jurisdiction where it is not then so subject;
provided, however
     (xii) shall issue, upon the request of any Holder of Initial Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement, Exchange Securities having an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Initial Securities surrendered to the Company by such Holder in exchange therefor or being sold by such Holder; such Exchange Securities to be registered in the name of such Holder or in the name of the purchaser(s) of such Securities, as the case may be; in return, the Initial Securities held by such Holder shall be surrendered to the Company for cancellation;
 
     (xiii) cooperate with the selling Holders and the underwriter(s), if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Transfer Restricted Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and enable such Transfer Restricted Securities to be in such denominations and registered in such names as the Holders or the underwriter(s), if any, may request at least five Business Days prior to any sale of Transfer Restricted Securities made by such Holders or underwriter(s);
     (xiv) if any fact or event contemplated by Section 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof shall exist or have occurred, prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of Transfer Restricted Securities, the Prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein in light of the circumstances under which they were made not misleading;
     (xv) provide a CUSIP number for all Securities not later than the effective date of the Registration Statement covering such Securities and provide the Trustee under the Indenture with printed certificates for such Securities which are in a form eligible for deposit with the Depository Trust Company and take all other action necessary to ensure that all such Securities are eligible for deposit with the Depository Trust Company;
     (xvi) cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with FINRA and in the performance of any due diligence investigation by any underwriter (including any "qualified independent underwriter" as the term is defined within the rules and regulations of FINRA) that is required to be retained in accordance with the rules and regulations of FINRA;
     (xvii) otherwise use its commercially reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission, and make generally available to its security holders, as soon as practicable, a consolidated earnings statement meeting the requirements of Rule 158 under the Securities Act (which need not be audited) for the twelve-month period (A) commencing at the end of any fiscal quarter in which Transfer Restricted Securities are sold to underwriters in a firm commitment or best efforts Underwritten Offering or (B) if not sold to underwriters in such an offering, beginning with the first month of the Company's first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of the Registration Statement;
     (xviii) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act not later than the effective date of the first Registration Statement required by this Agreement, and, in connection therewith, cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders of Securities to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for such Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act; and to execute and use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents that may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the Commission to enable such Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
 
     (xix) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, cause all Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement to be listed on each securities exchange or automated quotation system on which similar securities issued by the Company are then listed if requested by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Initial Securities or the managing underwriter(s), if any; and
     (xx) if not otherwise available on EDGAR, provide promptly to each Holder upon request each document filed with the Commission pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 and Section 15 of the Exchange Act.
     Each Holder agrees by acquisition of a Transfer Restricted Security that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the existence of any fact of the kind described in Section 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof or any Suspension Period, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the applicable Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 6(c)(xiv) hereof, or until it is advised in writing (the "Advice") by the Company that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated by reference in the Prospectus. If so directed by the Company, each Holder will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Transfer Restricted Securities that was current at the time of receipt of such notice. In the event the Company shall give any such notice, the time period regarding the effectiveness of such Registration Statement set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable, shall be extended by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice pursuant to Section 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof to and including the date when each selling Holder covered by such Registration Statement shall have received the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 6(c)(xiv) hereof or shall have received the Advice; that no such extension shall be taken into account in determining whether Additional Interest is due pursuant to Section 5 hereof or the amount of such Additional Interest, it being agreed that the Company's option to suspend use of a Registration Statement pursuant to this paragraph (but not, for the avoidance of doubt, during a Suspension Period) shall be treated as a Registration Default for purposes of Section 5 hereof.
provided, however,
     SECTION 7..
Registration Expenses
          (a) All expenses incident to the Company's performance of or compliance with this Agreement will be borne by the Company, regardless of whether a Registration Statement becomes effective, including, without limitation: (i) all registration and filing fees and expenses (including filings made by any Initial Purchaser or Holder with FINRA (and, if applicable, the fees and expenses of any "qualified independent underwriter" and its counsel that may be required by the rules and regulations of FINRA)); (ii) all fees and expenses of compliance with federal securities and state securities or blue sky laws; (iii) all expenses of printing (including printing certificates for the Exchange Securities to be issued in the Exchange Offer and printing of Prospectuses), messenger and delivery services and telephone; (iv) all fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and, subject to Section 7(b) hereof, the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities; (v) all application and filing fees in connection with listing the Exchange Securities on a securities exchange or automated quotation system pursuant to the
 
requirements thereof; and (vi) all fees and disbursements of independent certified public accountants of the Company (including the expenses of any special audit and comfort letters required by or incident to such performance).
     The Company will, in any event, bear its internal expenses (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expenses of any annual audit and the fees and expenses of any Person, including special experts, retained by the Company.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities shall pay all agency fees and commissions and underwriting discounts and commissions, if any, and transfer taxes, if any, attributable to the sale of such Transfer Restricted Securities, and the fees and disbursements of any counsel or other advisor or experts retained by such Holders (severally or jointly), other than the counsel and experts specifically referred to above.
          (b) In connection with any Shelf Registration Statement required by this Agreement, the Company will reimburse the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities being registered pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement for the reasonable fees and disbursements of not more than one counsel, who shall be Shearman & Sterling LLP or such other counsel as may be chosen by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities for whose benefit such Shelf Registration Statement is being prepared.
     SECTION 8..
Indemnification
          (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless (i) each Holder and (ii) each Person, if any, who controls (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) any Holder (any of the Persons referred to in this clause (ii) being hereinafter referred to as a "controlling person") and (iii) the respective officers, directors, partners, employees, representatives and agents of any Holder or any controlling person (any Person referred to in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) may hereinafter be referred to as an "Indemnified Holder"), to the fullest extent lawful, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions and expenses (including, without limitation, and as incurred, reimbursement of all reasonable costs of investigating, preparing, pursuing, settling, compromising, paying or defending any claim or action, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, including the reasonable fees and expenses of not more than one counsel for the Indemnified Holders), joint or several, directly or indirectly caused by, related to, based upon, arising out of or in connection with any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are caused by an untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission that is made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any of the Holders furnished in writing to the Company by any of the Holders expressly for use therein. This indemnity agreement shall be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have.
 
     In case any action or proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation or proceeding) shall be brought or asserted against any of the Indemnified Holders with respect to which indemnity may be sought against the Company, such Indemnified Holder (or the Indemnified Holder controlled by such controlling person) shall promptly notify the Company in writing; that the failure to give such notice shall not relieve the Company of its obligations pursuant to this Agreement except to the extent the Company is prejudiced by any such failure. The Indemnified Holders shall have the right to employ not more than one counsel in any such action and the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel shall be paid, as incurred, by the Company subject to the limitations on the Company's indemnification obligations set forth in Section 8(a) hereof. The Company shall not, in connection with any one such action or proceeding or separate but substantially similar or related actions or proceedings arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to any local counsel) at any time for such Indemnified Holders, which firm shall be designated by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities. The Company shall be liable for any settlement of any such action or proceeding effected with the Company's prior written consent, which consent shall not be withheld unreasonably, and the Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless any Indemnified Holder from and against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of any settlement of any action effected with the written consent of the Company. The Company shall not, without the prior written consent of each Indemnified Holder, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in or otherwise seek to terminate any pending or threatened action, claim, litigation or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not any Indemnified Holder is a party thereto), unless such settlement, compromise, consent or termination includes an unconditional release of each Indemnified Holder from all liability arising out of such action, claim, litigation or proceeding.
provided, however,
          (b) Each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and its directors, officers of the Company who sign a Registration Statement, and any Person controlling (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) the Company, and the respective officers, directors, partners, employees, representatives and agents of each such Person, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each of the Indemnified Holders, but only with respect to claims and actions based on information relating to such Holder furnished in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement or Prospectus. In case any action or proceeding shall be brought against the Company or its directors or officers or any such controlling person in respect of which indemnity may be sought against a Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities, such Holder shall have the rights and duties given to the Company, and the Company, its directors and officers and such controlling person shall have the rights and duties given to each Holder by the preceding paragraph.
          (c) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 8 is unavailable to an indemnified party under Section 8(a) or (b) hereof (other than by reason of exceptions provided in those Sections) in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions or expenses referred to therein, then each applicable indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses in such proportion as is
 
appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, from the Initial Placement (which in the case of the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds to the Company from the Initial Placement), the amount of Additional Interest which did not become payable as a result of the filing of the Registration Statement resulting in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments actions or expenses, and such Registration Statement, or if such allocation is not permitted by applicable law, the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Holders on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Holders, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(a) hereof, any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
     The Company and each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(c) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8, none of the Holders (and its related Indemnified Holders) shall be required to contribute, in the aggregate, any amount in excess of the amount by which the total discount received by such Holder with respect to the Initial Securities exceeds the amount of any damages which such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Holders' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 8(c) are several in proportion to the respective principal amount of Initial Securities held by each of the Holders hereunder and not joint.
     SECTION 9. The Company hereby agrees with each Holder, for so long as any Transfer Restricted Securities remain outstanding, to make available to any Holder or beneficial owner of Transfer Restricted Securities in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of such Transfer Restricted Securities from such Holder or beneficial owner, the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act in order to permit resales of such Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A.
     SECTION 10.No Holder may participate in any Underwritten Registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's
Participation in Underwritten Registrations.
 
Transfer Restricted Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all reasonable questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements, lock-up letters and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
     SECTION 11.The Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement who desire to do so may sell such Transfer Restricted Securities in an Underwritten Offering only upon the prior consent of the Company, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld. In any such Underwritten Offering so consented to by the Company, the investment banker(s) and managing underwriter(s) that will administer such offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities included in such offering; , that such investment banker(s) and managing underwriter(s) must be reasonably satisfactory to the Company.
Selection of Underwriters.
provided, however
     SECTION 12..
Miscellaneous
          (a)Except with respect to Sections 9 and 12(b) herein, the parties hereto hereby agree to waive the right to specific performance in connection with any breach of the provisions of this Agreement.
 Specific Performance.
          (b)The Company will not on or after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's securities under any agreement in effect on the date hereof.
 No Inconsistent Agreements.
          (c)The Company will not, and will use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause its affiliate (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) not to, resell or otherwise transfer any Securities.
 Purchase and Sales of Securities.
          (d). The Company covenants to the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities that to the extent it shall be required to do so under the Exchange Act, the Company shall timely file the reports required to be filed by it under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission thereunder, and shall take such further action as any Holder may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell Transfer Restricted Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitations of the exemption provided by Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar or successor rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission. Upon the request of any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities in connection with such Holder's sale pursuant to Rule 144, the Company shall deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements.
 Rule 144
          (e)The Company will not take any action, or permit any change to occur, with respect to the Securities that would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Holders to Consummate any Exchange Offer.
 Adjustments Affecting the Securities.
 
          (f)The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to or departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has (i) in the case of Section 5 hereof and this Section 12(d)(i), obtained the written consent of Holders of all outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities and (ii) in the case of all other provisions hereof, obtained the written consent of Holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities (excluding any Transfer Restricted Securities held by the Company or its Affiliates). Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose securities are being tendered pursuant to the Exchange Offer and that does not affect directly or indirectly the rights of other Holders whose securities are not being tendered pursuant to such Exchange Offer may be given by the Holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities being tendered or registered; that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of any Initial Purchaser hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of each such Initial Purchaser with respect to which such amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver, consent or departure is to be effective.
 Amendments and Waivers.
provided, however,
          (g)All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telex, telecopier, or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery:
 Notices.
     (i) if to a Holder, at the address set forth on the records of the Registrar under the Indenture, with a copy to the Registrar under the Indenture; and
     (ii) if to the Company:
Broadcom Corporation 5300 California Avenue Irvine, CA 92617 Facsimile: 949-926-9244 Attention: General Counsel
with copies to:
Latham & Watkins LLP 650 Town Center Drive, 20 Floor Costa Mesa, CA 92626 Facsimile: 714-755-8290 Attention: Charles Ruck
th
Latham & Watkins LLP 885 Third Avenue New York, NY 10022 Facsimile: 212-906-4864 Attention: Greg Rodgers
 
     All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day, if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
     Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee at the address specified in the Indenture.
          (h)This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties, including, without limitation, and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities; , that this Agreement shall not inure to the benefit of or be binding upon a successor or assign of a Holder unless and to the extent such successor or assign acquired Transfer Restricted Securities from such Holder.
 Successors and Assigns.
provided, however
          (i)This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
 Counterparts.
          (j)The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
 Headings.
          (k)THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW RULES THEREOF.
 Governing Law.
          (l)In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
 Severability.
          (m)This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein with respect to the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Transfer Restricted Securities. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter
 Entire Agreement.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
     The foregoing Registration Rights Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:


