FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20100203161133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report, including the exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
On February 3, 2010 Broadcom Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing unaudited financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On January 27, 2010 the Board of Directors of Broadcom Corporation adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which the Company intends to pay quarterly cash dividends on its common stock and declared the first quarterly cash dividend of $0.08 per share payable to holders of the Company's common stock. The dividend will be paid March 8, 2010 to holders of the Company's Class A and Class B common stock of record at the close of business February 19, 2010. The dividend so declared will be paid from U.S. domestic sources other than the Company's retained earnings and will be treated for accounting purposes as a reduction of shareholders' equity.
The cash dividend policy and the payment of future cash dividends under that policy are subject to the Board's continuing determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of Broadcom's shareholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements of Broadcom applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends.
On February 3, 2010 Broadcom issued a related press release announcing its dividend and dividend program. The full text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press release dated February 3, 2010 of the Registrant.
99.2 Press release dated February 3, 2010 of the Registrant.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE, Calif. February 3, 2010  Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today reported unaudited financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2009.
Net revenue for the fourth quarter of 2009 was a record $1.343 billion. This represents an increase in net revenue of 7.1% compared with the $1.254 billion for the third quarter of 2009 and an increase of 19.2% compared with the $1.127 billion for the fourth quarter of 2008. Net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the fourth quarter of 2009 was $59.2 million, or $.11 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $84.6 million, or $.16 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2009, and GAAP net loss of $159.2 million, or $.32 net loss per share (basic and diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2008.
Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $4.490 billion. This represents a decrease in net revenue of 3.6% from the $4.658 billion reported for the year ended December 31, 2008. GAAP net income for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $65.3 million, or $.13 per share (diluted), compared with $214.8 million, or $.41 per share (diluted), for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
As previously disclosed, in the fourth quarter of 2009, Broadcom announced that it had agreed in principle to settle the securities class action litigation pending against the company and certain of its current and former officers and directors relating to the company's historical stock option accounting practices. Under the proposed settlement, the claims against Broadcom and its officers and directors will be dismissed with prejudice and released in exchange for a $160.5 million cash payment by Broadcom. The company recorded the settlement amount as a one-time charge. The proposed settlement remains subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, including negotiation and execution of a final stipulation of settlement and approval by the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California following notice to members of the class. This charge reduced net income by $0.31 per share (diluted) in the fourth quarter and year ended 2009. In addition, we received $63.2 million from our directors' and officers' insurance carriers, which the company recorded as a reduction of selling, general and administrative expense. This increased net income by $0.12 per share (diluted) in the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2009.
For a discussion of non-recurring transactions and their related accounting impact for all periods presented, see the "Unaudited Supplementary Financial Data" schedule below.
"Broadcom's performance in 2009 highlights the incredible opportunities within the wired and wireless communications markets and the excellent work of our employees in creating compelling products," said Scott A. McGregor, Broadcom's President and Chief Executive Officer. "In the midst of one of the worst economic downturns, Broadcom gained market share, achieved record quarterly revenue and delivered the strongest cash flow from operations in our history."
"Given the strength of our balance sheet and our proven ability to generate strong cash flow, Broadcom's Board of Directors today announced it has adopted a quarterly dividend policy (please see separate press release). Broadcom has both the financial strength and flexibility to fund our research and development activities to grow our
 
business in the future and return cash to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and a quarterly dividend."
Conference Call Information
As previously announced, Broadcom will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its fourth quarter and year 2009 financial results and current financial prospects today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (4:45 p.m. Eastern Time). The company will broadcast the conference call via webcast over the Internet. To listen to the webcast, or to view the financial or other statistical information required by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation G, please visit the Investors section of the Broadcom website at . The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time, March 17, 2010.
www.broadcom.com/investors
The financial results included in this release are unaudited. The audited financial statements of the company for the year ended December 31, 2009 will be included in Broadcom's Annual Report on Form 10-K, to be filed with the SEC as soon as practicable.
About Broadcom
Broadcom Corporation is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Broadcom products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. We provide the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
Broadcom, one of the world's largest fabless semiconductor companies, with 2009 revenue of $4.49 billion, holds more than 3,800 U.S. and 1,550 foreign patents, and has more than 7,800 additional pending patent applications, and one of the broadest
 
intellectual property portfolios addressing both wired and wireless transmission of voice, video, data and multimedia.
A FORTUNE 500 company, Broadcom is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., and has offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at +1.949.926.5000 or at .
www.broadcom.com
Cautions regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, guidance provided on future revenue, gross product margin and operating expense targets for the first quarter of 2010, references to and statements about opportunities within the wired and wireless communication markets and the preliminary settlement of securities litigation pending against us. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to:
 
 
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement, except as required by law.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything, and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
 
     Certain prior period amounts in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation of product revenue, income from Qualcomm Agreement and licensing revenue.
     The following table presents details of total stock-based compensation expense in each functional line item in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income above:
included
 
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
 
     The following table presents details of supplementary financial data in each functional line item in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations:
included
 
 
 
Broadcom has based the preceding guidance for the three months ending March 31, 2010 on expectations, assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable given our assessment of historical trends and other information reasonably available as of February 3, 2010. Our guidance consists of predictions only, however, and is subject to a wide range of known and unknown business risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. The forecasts and projections contained in the table above should not be regarded as representations by Broadcom that the estimated results will be achieved. Projections and estimates are necessarily speculative in nature and actual results may vary materially from the guidance we provide today.
The guidance set forth in the table above should be read together with the information under the caption, "Cautions regarding Forward Looking Statements" above, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, including the guidance set forth herein.

Exhibit 99.2
NEWS RELEASE
Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM), a global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications, today announced that its Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which the Company intends to pay quarterly cash dividends on its common stock. The Board declared the first quarterly cash dividend of $0.08 per share payable to holders of the Company's common stock. The dividend was declared by the Board of Directors on January 27, 2010 and will be paid on March 8, 2010 to holders of the Company's Class A and Class B common stock of record at the close of business on February 19, 2010. The dividend so declared will be paid from U.S. domestic sources other than the Company's retained earnings and will be treated for accounting purposes as a reduction of shareholders' equity.
IRVINE, Calif.  February 3, 2010 
"Broadcom has become one of the world's leading communications semiconductor companies due in large part to the continued support of our shareholders," said Broadcom's President and CEO, Scott A. McGregor. "The adoption of a dividend policy is another step in our continued efforts to adopt shareholder friendly initiatives and encourage new and long-term investments in Broadcom. Adopting a dividend enables us to return cash to our shareholders, who can now benefit from a quarterly dividend payment and stock appreciation."
1
 
The cash dividend policy and the payment of future cash dividends under that policy are subject to the Board's continuing determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of Broadcom's shareholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements of Broadcom applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends.
About Broadcom
Broadcom Corporation is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Broadcom products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. We provide the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
Broadcom is one of the world's largest fabless semiconductor companies, with 2009 revenue of $4.49 billion, and holds over 3,800 U.S. and over 1,550 foreign patents, more than 7,800 additional pending patent applications, and one of the broadest intellectual property portfolios addressing both wired and wireless transmission of voice, video, data and multimedia.
A FORTUNE 500 company, Broadcom is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., and has offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at +1.949.926.5000 or at .
www.broadcom.com
Cautions regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and business, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our intention to pay quarterly cash dividends and references to our stock price performance. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
Important factors that may cause such a difference for Broadcom in connection with our dividend program, include, but are not limited to the list that can be found at .
http://www.broadcom.com/press/additional_risk_factors/Q12010.php
2
 
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release speak only as of this date. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement, except as required by law.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything, and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
3


