FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20101026163533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
In a press release issued on October 26, 2010, Broadcom Corporation announced that it intends to offer, subject to market and other conditions, approximately $600 million of senior notes in a private offering. The full text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is hereby incorporated by reference herein. Shortly following the issuance of the senior notes, Broadcom Corporation intends to enter into a four year $500 million revolving credit facility.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1  Press release dated October 26, 2010 of the Registrant.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 99.1
IRVINE, Calif.  October 26, 2010  Broadcom Corporation ("Broadcom") (Nasdaq: BRCM) today announced its intention to offer, subject to market and other conditions, approximately $600 million of Senior Notes pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").  The final amount of the offering will be determined by Broadcom in light of market and other conditions.
Broadcom expects to use the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes.
This notice does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities. Any offers of the securities will be made only by means of a private offering memorandum. The Senior Notes have not been, and will not be, registered under the Securities Act or the securities laws of any other jurisdiction and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. No offer, solicitation or sale will be made in any jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
Cautions regarding Forward-Looking Statements
All statements included in this release, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
Broadcom's Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release speak only as of this date. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement, except as required by law.


