FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20110426161215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
On April 26, 2011 Broadcom Corporation (the "Company" or "Broadcom") issued a press release announcing unaudited financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, results, Broadcom reports adjusted (i) cost of product revenue, (ii) product gross profit, (iii) product gross margin and (iv) income from operations, referred to collectively as "non-GAAP financial measures". These non-GAAP financial measures exclude stock-based compensation expense, as well as charges related to acquisitions, employer payroll taxes and non-recurring, infrequent or unusual charges and gains that are driven primarily by discrete events that management does not consider to be directly related to the Company's core operating performance.
Broadcom believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures provides important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability among and between results from prior periods or forecasts and future prospects, and also facilitates comparisons with other companies in Broadcom's industry, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results. Management has historically used these non-GAAP financial measures when evaluating operating performance because Broadcom believes that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides insight into its core operating results, its ability to generate cash and underlying business trends affecting performance. Broadcom has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate the Company's ongoing core operations. Externally, Broadcom believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when used in conjunction with the Company's GAAP financial information, continues to be useful to investors in their assessment of Broadcom's operating performance and the valuation of the Company.
Internally, these non-GAAP financial measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
 
These Non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted for one or more of the following items:
Non-GAAP financial measures are not calculated in accordance with GAAP, and should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the costs associated with the operations of Broadcom's business as determined in accordance with GAAP. As a result, you should not consider these measures in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of Broadcom's results as reported under GAAP. Broadcom expects to continue to incur expenses similar to the non-GAAP adjustments described above, and exclusion of these items from Broadcom's non-GAAP financial measures should not be construed as an inference that these costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Some of the limitations in relying on non-GAAP financial measures are:
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
99.1  Press Release dated April 26, 2011 of the Registrant.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Q1 Summary
 Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today reported unaudited financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2011.
IRVINE, Calif.  April 26, 2011
Net revenue for the first quarter of 2011 was $1.82 billion. This represents a decrease in net revenue of 6.6% compared with the $1.95 billion reported for the fourth quarter of 2010 and an increase of 24.2% compared with the $1.46 billion reported for the first quarter of 2010. Net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the first quarter of 2011 was $228 million, or $.40 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $266 million, or $.47 per share (diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2010, and GAAP net income of $210 million, or $.40 per share (diluted), for the first quarter of 2010.
 
For a discussion of certain selected transactions and their related accounting impact for all periods presented, see the "Unaudited Supplementary Financial Data" schedule below.
"Broadcom reported solid results for the first quarter, with revenue above the mid-point of guidance and better-than-expected profitability," said Scott A. McGregor, Broadcom's President and Chief Executive Officer. "In addition, momentum continues to build around our innovative solutions. Following a record year in 2010, we had record design wins in the first quarter, which speaks to the continued underlying strength of our integrated solutions for the Home, Hand and Infrastructure markets."
Conference Call Information
As previously announced, Broadcom will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its first quarter financial results and current financial prospects today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (4:45 p.m. Eastern Time). The company will broadcast the conference call via webcast over the Internet. To listen to the webcast, or to view the financial and other statistical information required by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation G, please visit the Investors section of the Broadcom website at . The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until 10:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Tuesday, May 17, 2011.
www.broadcom.com/investors
The financial results included in this release are unaudited.
 
About Broadcom
Broadcom Corporation is a prominent technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Broadcom products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. We provide the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and embedded software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
Broadcom, one of the world's largest fabless communications semiconductor companies, with 2010 revenue of $6.82 billion, holds more than 5,100 U.S. and 2,200 foreign patents, and has more than 7,700 additional pending patent applications, and one of the broadest intellectual property portfolios addressing both wired and wireless transmission of voice, video, data and multimedia.
Broadcom, a FORTUNE 500 company, was recognized in FORTUNE's 2011 "World's Most Admired Companies" survey as the innovation leader in the semiconductor category. Broadcom is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., and has offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at +1.949.926.5000 or at .
www.broadcom.com
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Broadcom reports cost of product revenue, product gross profit, product gross margin and income from operations in accordance with GAAP and supplementally on a non-GAAP basis. Broadcom's presentation of non-GAAP cost of product revenue, non-GAAP product gross profit, non-GAAP product gross margin excludes certain charges related to acquisitions, stock-based compensation expense and employer payroll tax expense on certain stock option exercises. In addition to the exclusions noted above, our non-GAAP income from operations also excludes settlement costs and impairment of long-lived assets. Stock-based compensation expense primarily includes the impact of stock options and restricted stock units issued by Broadcom. Reconciliations of our GAAP to non-
 
GAAP financial measures for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 appear in the financial statements portion of this release titled "Unaudited Schedule of Selected GAAP to Non-GAAP Adjustments" and "Unaudited Reconciliation of GAAP Income from Operations to Non-GAAP Income from Operations."
Broadcom believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measures provide important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations. Broadcom's management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability among and between results from prior periods or forecasts and future prospects, and also facilitates comparisons with other companies in our industry, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results. Broadcom's management has historically used these non-GAAP financial measures when evaluating operating performance, because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described above provides insight into our core operating results, our ability to generate cash and underlying business trends affecting our performance. Broadcom has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. The non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
For additional information on the items excluded by Broadcom from one or more of its non-GAAP financial measures, refer to the Form 8-K regarding this release furnished today to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Cautions regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and
 
industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, guidance provided on future revenue, gross product margin and operating expense targets for the second quarter of 2011, references to opportunities within the wired and wireless communication markets to grow revenue and gain share in core markets and the continued underlying strength of our products for our core markets. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the following:
 
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement to reflect future events or circumstances.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything, and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
 
     The following table presents details of total stock-based compensation expense in each functional line item in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income above:
included
 
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
Broadcom has based the preceding guidance for the three months ending June 30, 2011 on expectations, assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable given our assessment of historical trends and other information reasonably available as of April 26, 2011. Our guidance consists of predictions only, however, and is subject to a wide range of known and unknown business risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. The forecasts and projections contained in the table above should not be regarded as representations by Broadcom that the estimated results will be achieved. Projections and estimates are necessarily speculative in nature and actual results may vary materially from the guidance we provide today.
The guidance set forth in the above table should be read together with the information under the caption, "Cautions regarding Forward-Looking Statements" above, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, including the guidance set forth herein, to reflect future events or circumstances.


