FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20111228160455.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On December 22, 2011 the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Broadcom Corporation (the "Company"), acting pursuant to the authority granted to it by the Companys Bylaws, increased the size of the Board from nine to ten directors. Effective December 26, 2011 Robert J. Finocchio, Jr. was appointed to fill the vacancy created by such increase. Mr. Finocchio was also appointed to the Boards audit committee and qualifies as an "audit committee financial expert" under Item 407 of Regulation S-K. Mr. Finocchio will participate in the compensation package offered to non-employee directors of the Board in respect of their service to the Board, as described under the caption "Corporate Governance and Board Matters  Compensation of Non-Employee Directors" appearing in the Companys Definitive Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2011. Accordingly, on December 26, 2011, he received an initial award of restricted stock units covering 3,654 shares of the Companys Class A common stock, pursuant to the Director Automatic Grant Program under the Companys 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated. In addition, Mr. Finocchio will enter into an indemnification agreement with the Company, the form of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 24, 2008. The Company issued a related press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Finocchio to the Board on December 28, 2011. The full text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. 99.1Press Release, dated December 28, 2011, of the Registrant.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

 Broadcom Corporation (NASDAQ: BRCM), a global innovation leader in semiconductor solutions for wired and wireless communications, today announced the appointment of Robert Finocchio, Jr. to its board of directors. Mr. Finocchio also was appointed to Broadcom's Audit Committee.
IRVINE, Calif., Dec. 28, 2011
Mr. Finocchio has more than 30 years of operating experience in software, Internet and infrastructure markets. In addition to becoming a member of Broadcom's board of directors, Mr. Finocchio also serves on the board of Echelon Corporation. Mr. Finocchio has held senior roles at a range of industry-leading companies including chairman, chief executive officer and president of Informix Corporation and president of 3Com Systems.
Mr. Finocchio is also chair of the board of trustees at Santa Clara University and Dean's Executive Professor at the university's Leavey School of Business. Mr. Finocchio holds a bachelor's degree in economics from Santa Clara University and a master's degree in business administration from the Harvard Business School.
"Bob's leadership, operational experience and industry knowledge in the network infrastructure markets makes him a strong addition to our board," said Scott McGregor, Broadcom president and CEO.
About Broadcom
Broadcom Corporation (NASDAQ: BRCM), a FORTUNE 500 company, is a global leader and innovator in semiconductor solutions for wired and wireless communications. Broadcom products seamlessly deliver voice, video, data and multimedia connectivity in the home, office and mobile environments.  With the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and embedded software solutions, Broadcom is changing the world by Connecting everything. For more information, go to www.broadcom.com.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything, and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU.  Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.


