FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20111101165334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit Agreement Amendment
On October 31, 2011 (the "Amendment Date"), Broadcom Corporation (the "Company") entered into the First Amendment to Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing line lender and L/C issuer, and the lenders party thereto (the "Amendment"), which amends the Credit Agreement dated as of November 19, 2010, by and among the Company, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing line lender and L/C issuer, and the lenders party thereto (as amended by the Amendment, the "Credit Agreement").
The Amendment provides for, among other things, an extension of the maturity date of the credit facility to November 19, 2016, and a decrease in the interest rate margins applicable to loans made under the Credit Agreement and the commitment fee paid on the amount of the unused commitments thereunder, if any. Loans made under the Credit Agreement (other than swing line loans) will now bear interest, at the Company's option, at either a Base Rate (as set forth in the Credit Agreement) or a Eurodollar Rate (as set forth in the Credit Agreement) plus a margin that will vary from 0.000% to 0.500% in the case of Base Rate loans and 0.625% to 1.500% in the case of Eurodollar Rate loans, in each case, based upon the ratings assigned to the Company's senior unsecured debt by Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services. Borrowings of swing line loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a Base Rate plus the margin described above for Base Rate loans. In addition, under the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Company pays a commitment fee on the aggregate amount of any unused commitments in an amount equal to a percentage of such unused commitments. That percentage has been reduced pursuant to the Amendment and will now vary from 0.060% to 0.200% based upon the ratings assigned to the Company's senior unsecured debt by Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services.
The Amendment does not change the events of default or financial covenants applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries.
No borrowings of loans under the Credit Agreement were made on or prior to the Amendment Date.
The foregoing description of the terms of the Credit Agreement and the Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, attached as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filing dated November 22, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference, and to the Amendment, attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
October 31, 2011
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of October 31, 2011 (this ""), to the Existing Credit Agreement is among BROADCOM CORPORATION, a California corporation (the ""), the Lenders party hereto and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer (all capitalized terms used herein and defined in are used herein as therein defined).
Amendment
Borrower
Section 1.1
WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent are all parties to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 19, 2010 (as amended or otherwise modified prior to the date hereof, the "", and as amended by this Amendment and as the same may be further amended, supplemented, amended and restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""); and
Existing Credit Agreement
Credit Agreement
WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested that the Lenders agree to amend the Existing Credit Agreement, and the Lenders are willing, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, to agree to the amendment set forth below;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby covenant and agree as follows:
SECTION 1.1. . The following terms when used in this Amendment shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to the singular and plural forms thereof):
Certain Definitions
"" is defined in the .
Amendment
preamble
"" is defined in .
Amendment Effective Date
Article III
"" is defined in the .
Borrower
preamble
"" is defined in the .
Credit Agreement
first recital
"" is defined in the .
Existing Credit Agreement
first recital
SECTION 1.2. . Capitalized terms for which meanings are provided in the Existing Credit Agreement are, unless otherwise defined herein or the context otherwise requires, used in this Amendment with such meanings.
Other Definitions
Subject to the occurrence of the Amendment Effective Date, the Existing Credit Agreement is hereby amended in accordance with this .
Article II
SECTION 2.1. . Section 1.01 of the Existing Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendments to Section 1.01
(a) The definition of "Applicable Rate" is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
 
(b) The definition of "Maturity Date" is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"" means November 19, 2016; that if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Maturity Date
provided
SECTION 2.2. . Section 7.04 of the Existing Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Amendment to Section 7.04
. On or after the Closing Date, (a) in the case of the Borrower, merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, or Dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any Person, or (b) in the case of any Subsidiary, merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate with or into another Person if such merger, dissolution, liquidation or consolidation would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, or Dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of the assets of the Borrower and its
Fundamental Changes
 
Subsidiaries (whether now owned or hereafter acquired), taken as a whole, to or in favor of any Person, except that, in each case, so long as no Event of Default exists or would result therefrom, the Borrower or any Subsidiary may merge with any other Person; that (i) in the case of any merger involving the Borrower, the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving Person, and (ii) in the case of any merger involving a Subsidiary, the continuing or surviving Person shall be or shall become a Subsidiary.
provided
SECTION 3.1. This Amendment shall become effective on the date (the "") when the Administrative Agent shall have received the following:
Amendment Effective Date
(a) counterparts of this Amendment duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and the Lenders;
(b) a favorable opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, counsel to the Borrower, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, which opinion shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent; and
(c) payment, for the account of the Lenders, of an upfront fee of 5.0 basis points on each Lender's Commitment.
SECTION 4.1. . References in this Amendment to any Article or Section are, unless otherwise specified, to such Article or Section of this Amendment.
Cross-References
SECTION 4.2. . This Amendment is a Loan Document executed pursuant to the Existing Credit Agreement and shall (unless otherwise expressly indicated therein) be construed, administered and applied in accordance with all of the terms and provisions of the Existing Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, including Article X thereof.
Loan Document Pursuant to Existing Credit Agreement
SECTION 4.3. . The provisions of this Amendment shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
SECTION 4.4. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and shall be binding upon all parties, their successors and assigns, and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of any executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
Counterparts
 
SECTION 4.5. . THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
SECTION 4.6. . Except as expressly amended hereby, all of the representations, warranties, terms, covenants, conditions and other provisions of the Existing Credit Agreement and the Loan Documents shall remain unchanged and shall continue to be, and shall remain, in full force and effect in accordance with their respective terms. The amendment set forth herein shall be limited precisely as provided for herein to the provision expressly amended herein and shall not be deemed to be an amendment to, waiver of, consent to or modification of any other term or provision of the Existing Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document or of any transaction or further or future action on the part of any Borrower which would require the consent of the Lenders under the Existing Credit Agreement or any of the Loan Documents.
Full Force and Effect; Limited Amendment
SECTION 4.7. . To induce the Lenders to execute and deliver this Amendment, the Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Lenders on the Amendment Effective Date that no Default or Event of Default exists and all statements set forth in clauses (a) and (b) of Section 4.02 of the Credit Agreement are true and correct as of such date, except to the extent that any such statement expressly relates to an earlier date (in which case such statement was true and correct on and as of such earlier date).
Representations and Warranties
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Amendment as of the date first above written.
 


