FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20111012170258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [x]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On October 12, 2011 Rajiv Ramaswami, Broadcom Corporations Executive Vice President & General Manager, Infrastructure & Networking Group, sent an email to Broadcom employees regarding the planned integration of Broadcoms pending acquisition of NetLogic Microsystems, Inc. The full text of the email is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is hereby incorporated by reference herein. CAUTIONS REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS All statements included or incorporated by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibit thereto), other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and business, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. Important risk factors that may cause such a difference for Broadcom in connection with the acquisition of NetLogic Microsystems include, but are not limited to unexpected variations in market growth and demand for multi-core network processor and related technologies, matters arising in connection with the parties efforts to comply with and satisfy applicable regulatory clearances and closing conditions relating to the transaction, the risks inherent in acquisitions of technologies and businesses, including the timing and successful completion of technology and product development through volume production, integration issues, costs and unanticipated expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, potential contractual, intellectual property or employment issues and charges resulting from purchase accounting adjustments or fair value measurements. Broadcoms Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibit thereto) speak only as of this date. Broadcom undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement to reflect future events or circumstances. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE MERGER AND WHERE TO FIND IT In connection with the proposed transaction, NetLogic Microsystems filed a preliminary proxy statement regarding the transaction with the SEC on October 5, 2011, and NetLogic Microsystems intends to file a definitive proxy statement and other relevant materials with the SEC. Before making any voting decision with respect to the proposed transaction, stockholders of NetLogic Microsystems are urged to read the definitive proxy statement and other relevant materials because these materials will contain important information about the proposed transaction. The proxy statement and other relevant materials, and any other documents to be filed by NetLogic Microsystems with the SEC, may be obtained free of charge at the SECs website at www.sec.gov or from NetLogic Microsystems website at www.netlogicmicro.com or by contacting NetLogic Microsystems Investor Relations at: investors@netlogicmicro.com. Investors and security holders of NetLogic Microsystems are urged to read the definitive proxy statement and the other relevant materials when they become available before making any voting or investment decision with respect to the proposed merger because they will contain important information about the merger and the parties to the merger. NetLogic Microsystems and Broadcom and each of their respective executive officers, directors and other members of their management and employees, under SEC rules, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from NetLogic Microsystemss stockholders in favor of the proposed transaction. A list of the names of NetLogic Microsystemss executive officers and directors and a description of their respective interests in NetLogic Microsystems are set forth in NetLogic Microsystemss annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, the proxy statement for NetLogic Microsystemss 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and the proxy statement and other relevant materials filed with the SEC in connection with the merger when they become available. Certain executive officers and directors of NetLogic Microsystems have interests in the proposed transaction that may differ from the interests of stockholders generally, including benefits conferred under retention, severance and change in control arrangements and continuation of director and officer insurance and indemnification. These interests and any additional benefits in connection with the proposed transaction will be described in the proxy statement relating to the merger when it becomes available. Investors and security holders may obtain more detailed information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of certain of Broadcoms executive officers and directors by reading Broadcoms proxy statement for its 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1  Email from Rajiv Ramaswami to Broadcom employees on October 12, 2011.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
Email from Rajiv Ramaswami to Broadcom' employees on
October 12, 2011
All,
The NetLogic integration planning process is well underway and I wanted to provide an update on key activities. 
As of today we have made the initial required filings to obtain regulatory clearance.  Three separate filings were necessary. In the U.S., Broadcom and NetLogic completed the HSR (Hart-Scott-Rodino) antitrust filings September 19 and 20. Additional required filings were made in China on October 10 and in Taiwan on October 11. NetLogic has also filed a preliminary proxy statement with the SEC. We are continuing to make progress toward closing and will keep you apprised as we hit key milestones.
We have also established two essential integration teams to spearhead the planning required to bring our companies together  an Integration Steering Committee and an Integration Functional Team including members from Broadcom and NetLogic. Teams are noted below.
Our guiding principles are to sustain strong product and business momentum, ensure a smooth employee and customer transition, integrate systems and processes as quickly as possible and prepare for Change of Control (CIC) and Go Live.
The team's efforts will culminate with a full project plan that delivers a seamless integration program over the next 6 to 12 months. As we have previously said, the acquisition is expected to be complete in the first half of 2012.
The integration teams include:
Stay tuned for more news on Broadcom and NetLogic in the coming weeks.  For ongoing updates you can continue to visit our . Please feel free to reach out to myself, Cindy, or any of the integration leads with questions.
announcement site
Rajiv
Cautions Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this email, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and business, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
Important risk factors that may cause such a difference for Broadcom in connection with the acquisition of NetLogic Microsystems include, but are not limited to unexpected variations in market growth and demand for multi-core network processor and related technologies, matters arising in connection with the parties' efforts to comply with and satisfy applicable regulatory clearances and closing conditions relating to the transaction, the risks inherent in acquisitions of technologies and businesses, including the timing and successful completion of technology and product development through volume production, integration issues, costs and unanticipated expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, potential contractual, intellectual property or employment issues and charges resulting from purchase accounting adjustments or fair value measurements.
Broadcom's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this email speak only as of this date. Broadcom undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement to reflect future events or circumstances.
Additional information about the Merger and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed transaction, NetLogic Microsystems filed a preliminary proxy statement regarding the transaction with the SEC on October 5, 2011, NetLogic Microsystems intends to file a definitive proxy statement and other relevant materials with the SEC. Before making any voting decision with respect to the proposed transaction, stockholders of NetLogic Microsystems are urged to read the definitive proxy statement and other relevant materials because these materials will contain important information about the proposed transaction. The proxy statement and other relevant materials, and any other documents to be filed by NetLogic Microsystems with the SEC, may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's website at or from NetLogic Microsystems' website at or by contacting NetLogic Microsystems Investor Relations at: . Investors and security holders of NetLogic Microsystems are urged to read the definitive proxy statement and the other relevant materials when they become available before making any voting or investment decision with respect to the proposed merger because they will contain important information about the merger and the parties to the merger.
www.sec.gov
www.netlogicmicro.com
investors@netlogicmicro.com
NetLogic Microsystems and Broadcom and each of their respective executive officers, directors and other members of their management and employees, under SEC rules, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from NetLogic Microsystems's stockholders in favor of the proposed transaction. A list of the names of NetLogic Microsystems's executive officers and directors and a description of their respective interests in NetLogic Microsystems are set forth in NetLogic Microsystems's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, the proxy statement for NetLogic Microsystems's 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and the proxy statement and other relevant materials filed with the SEC in connection with the merger when they become available. Certain executive officers and directors of NetLogic Microsystems have interests in the proposed transaction that may differ from the interests of stockholders generally, including benefits conferred under retention, severance and change in control arrangements and continuation of director and officer insurance and indemnification. These interests and any additional benefits in connection with the proposed transaction will be described in the proxy statement relating to the merger when it becomes available.  Investors and security holders may obtain more detailed information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of certain of Broadcom's executive officers and directors by reading Broadcom's proxy statement for its 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.


