FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20111102161902.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [x]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
The Taiwanese Fair Trade Commission has declined to exercise jurisdiction over the previously announced merger between NetLogic Microsystems, Inc. ("NetLogic") and I&N Acquisition Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Broadcom Corporation. The proposed merger remains subject to clearance by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce under the Chinese Antimonopoly Law, as well as other customary closing conditions, including the approval of NetLogic's stockholders. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE MERGER AND WHERE TO FIND IT In connection with the proposed transaction, NetLogic Microsystems Inc. filed a definitive proxy statement with the SEC on October 21, 2011. Before making any voting decision with respect to the proposed transaction, stockholders of NetLogic Microsystems are urged to read the definitive proxy statement and other relevant materials because these materials contain or will contain important information about the proposed transaction. The definitive proxy statement and other relevant materials, and any other documents to be filed by NetLogic Microsystems with the SEC, may be obtained free of charge at the SECs website at www.sec.gov or from NetLogic Microsystems website at www.netlogicmicro.com or by contacting NetLogic Microsystems Investor Relations at: investors@netlogicmicro.com. Investors and security holders of NetLogic Microsystems are urged to read the definitive proxy statement and the other relevant materials when they become available before making any voting or investment decision with respect to the proposed merger because they contain or will contain important information about the merger and the parties to the merger. NetLogic Microsystems and Broadcom and each of their respective executive officers, directors and other members of their management and employees, under SEC rules, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from NetLogic Microsystemss stockholders in favor of the proposed transaction. A list of the names of NetLogic Microsystemss executive officers and directors and a description of their respective interests in NetLogic Microsystems are set forth in NetLogic Microsystemss annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, the proxy statement for NetLogic Microsystemss 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and the definitive proxy statement and other relevant materials filed with the SEC in connection with the merger when they become available. Certain executive officers and directors of NetLogic Microsystems have interests in the proposed transaction that may differ from the interests of stockholders generally, including benefits conferred under retention, severance and change in control arrangements and continuation of director and officer insurance and indemnification. These interests and any additional benefits in connection with the proposed transaction are described in the definitive proxy statement. Investors and security holders may obtain more detailed information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of certain of Broadcoms executive officers and directors by reading Broadcoms proxy statement for its 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


