FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20110201161938.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report, including the exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
On February 1, 2011 Broadcom Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing unaudited financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to our U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, results, Broadcom reports adjusted income from operations, referred to as "non-GAAP income from operations". Non-GAAP income from operations consists of operating income excluding stock-based compensation expense, as well as charges related to acquisitions, employer payroll taxes and non-recurring, infrequent or unusual charges and gains that are driven primarily by discrete events that management does not consider to be directly related to our core operating performance.
Broadcom believes that the presentation of non-GAAP income from operations provides important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability among and between results from prior periods or forecasts and future prospects, and also facilitates comparisons with other companies in our industry, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results. Management has historically used non-GAAP income from operations when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides insight into our core operating results, our ability to generate cash and underlying business trends affecting our performance. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that non-GAAP income from operations, when used in conjunction with our GAAP financial information, continues to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and the valuation of our company.
Internally, non-GAAP income from operations is a significant measure used by management for purposes of:
Non-GAAP income from operations reflects income from operations adjusted for the following items:
Table of Contents
Non-GAAP income from operations is not calculated in accordance with GAAP, and should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP measure is not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the costs associated with the operations of our business as determined in accordance with GAAP. As a result, you should not consider this measure in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of Broadcom's results as reported under GAAP. Broadcom expects to continue to incur expenses similar to the non-GAAP adjustments described above, and exclusion of these items from our non-GAAP net income should not be construed as an inference that these costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Some of the limitations in relying on non-GAAP income from operations are:
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
99.1  Press Release dated February 1, 2011 of the Registrant
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Q4 Summary
Full Year 2010 Summary
 Broadcom Corporation (Nasdaq: BRCM) today reported unaudited financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2010.
IRVINE, Calif.  February 1, 2011
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010 Results Page 2
Net revenue for the fourth quarter of 2010 was a record $1.95 billion. This represents an increase in net revenue of 7.7% compared with the $1.81 billion reported for the third quarter of 2010 and an increase of 44.9% compared with the $1.34 billion reported for the fourth quarter of 2009. Net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the fourth quarter of 2010 was $266 million, or $.47 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $327 million, or $.60 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2010, and GAAP net income of $59 million, or $.11 per share (diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2009.
Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $6.82 billion. This represents an increase in net revenue of 51.8% from the $4.49 billion reported for the year ended December 31, 2009. Net income computed in accordance with GAAP for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $1.08 billion, or $1.99 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $65 million, or $.13 per share (diluted), for the year ended December 31, 2009.
For a discussion of certain selected transactions and their related accounting impact for all periods presented, see the "Unaudited Supplementary Financial Data" schedule below.
"I am very pleased with our record performance in 2010, as Broadcom gained significant market share and delivered record revenue, earnings per share, and cash flow from operations," said Scott A. McGregor, Broadcom's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Our achievements highlight the incredible capabilities of our employees to create innovative solutions in the wired and wireless communications markets."
"Our record results, powerful balance sheet and strong operating cash flow enable us to increase our dividend by 12.5% and accelerate share repurchases, reflecting our continued commitment to returning capital to our shareholders. Looking ahead, we will focus on continuing to grow revenue faster than our peers and to gain share in our core markets, while maintaining financial discipline."
Conference Call Information
As previously announced, Broadcom will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its fourth quarter and year-end financial results and current financial prospects today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (4:45 p.m. Eastern Time). The company will
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010 Results Page 3
broadcast the conference call via webcast over the Internet. To listen to the webcast, or to view the financial and other statistical information required by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation G, please visit the Investors section of the Broadcom website at . The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until 10:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Tuesday, February 22, 2011.
www.broadcom.com/investors
The financial results included in this release are unaudited. The audited financial statements of the company for the year ended December 31, 2010 will be included in Broadcom's Annual Report on Form 10-K, to be filed with the SEC as soon as practicable.
About Broadcom
Broadcom Corporation is a major technology innovator and global leader in semiconductors for wired and wireless communications. Broadcom products enable the delivery of voice, video, data and multimedia to and throughout the home, the office and the mobile environment. We provide the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and software solutions to manufacturers of computing and networking equipment, digital entertainment and broadband access products, and mobile devices. These solutions support our core mission: Connecting everything.
Broadcom, one of the world's largest fabless communications semiconductor companies, with 2010 revenue of $6.82 billion, holds more than 4,800 U.S. and 2,000 foreign patents, and has more than 7,800 additional pending patent applications, and one of the broadest intellectual property portfolios addressing both wired and wireless transmission of voice, video, data and multimedia.
A FORTUNE 500 company, Broadcom is headquartered in Irvine, Calif., and has offices and research facilities in North America, Asia and Europe. Broadcom may be contacted at +1.949.926.5000 or at .
www.broadcom.com
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010 Results Page 4
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Broadcom reports income from operations in accordance with GAAP and supplementally on a non-GAAP basis, referred to in this release as "non-GAAP income from operations." Broadcom's presentation of non-GAAP income from operations excludes certain charges related to acquisitions, stock-based compensation expense, employer payroll tax expense on certain stock option exercises, settlement costs, impairment of goodwill or other long-lived assets, restructuring costs (reversals) and charitable contributions to the Broadcom Foundation. Stock-based compensation expense primarily includes the impact of stock options and restricted stock units issued by Broadcom. Reconciliations of GAAP income from operations to non-GAAP income from operations for the three months ended and years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 appear in the financial statements portion of this release.
Broadcom believes that the presentation of non-GAAP income from operations provides important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations. Broadcom's management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability among and between results from prior periods or forecasts and future prospects, and also facilitates comparisons with other companies in our industry, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results. Broadcom's management has historically used non-GAAP income from operations when evaluating operating performance, because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described above provides insight into our core operating results, our ability to generate cash and underlying business trends affecting our performance. Broadcom has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. The non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010 Results Page 5
For additional information on the items excluded by Broadcom from one or more of its non-GAAP financial measures, refer to the Form 8-K regarding this release furnished today to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Cautions regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, guidance provided on future revenue, gross product margin and operating expense targets for the first quarter of 2011, references to opportunities within the wired and wireless communication markets to grow revenue and gain share in core markets and statements about our intention to pay quarterly cash dividends and return capital to shareholders. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the following:
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010 Results Page 6
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement, except as required by law.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything, and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010 Results
Page 7
     The following table presents details of total stock-based compensation expense in each functional line item in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income above:
included
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010 Results
Page 8
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010 Results Page 9
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010 Results Page 10
     The following represents a reconciliation (unaudited) of GAAP income from operations to non-GAAP income from operations.
 
Non-GAAP Adjustments
The above non-GAAP adjustments are based upon our unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the periods shown. These adjustments are not in accordance with, or an alternative for GAAP. The non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010 Results Page 11
Non-GAAP Financial Statements
The above non-GAAP statements are based upon our unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the periods shown, giving effect to the adjustments shown in the attached reconciliation. This presentation is not in accordance with, or an alternative for GAAP. The non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010 Results Page 12
 
Broadcom Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010 Results Page 13
Broadcom has based the preceding guidance for the three months ending March 31, 2011 on expectations, assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable given our assessment of historical trends and other information reasonably available as of February 1, 2011. Our guidance consists of predictions only, however, and is subject to a wide range of known and unknown business risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. The forecasts and projections contained in the table above should not be regarded as representations by Broadcom that the estimated results will be achieved. Projections and estimates are necessarily speculative in nature and actual results may vary materially from the guidance we provide today.
The guidance set forth in the above table should be read together with the information under the caption, "Cautions regarding Forward-Looking Statements" above, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, including the guidance set forth herein, except as required by law.


