FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20110121172542.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 18, 2011, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Broadcom Corporation (the "Company") adopted a Restricted Stock Units Incentive Award Program (the "Program"). Certain of the Companys executives will be designated as participants in the Program, in the sole discretion of the Committee. The Program was adopted under, and all awards and grants of the Program shall be pursuant to, the Broadcom Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated. The Committee has designated the first performance cycle under the Program to be January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010. Pursuant to the Program, a participant has the opportunity to receive grants of restricted stock units ("Performance RSU Grants") if the performance targets established by the Committee by resolution have been met for a performance cycle (typically, January 1 through December 31 of a subject year). If the performance targets are met, upon the Committees written certification that such performance goals were satisfied, and subject to the Committees sole discretion to reduce (including to zero) the amount of the grant, a Performance RSU Grant will be awarded and the same number of Performance RSU Grant shares will be granted for the two succeeding years immediately following such year (the "Three-Year Retention Period"), as shown in the table below: Performance Target Achieved in Year 0 Performance RSU Grants Year 1 Performance RSU Grant for X number of shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock Year 2 Same number of Performance RSU Grant shares as granted in Year 1 for the performance target achieved in Year 0 Year 3 Same number of Performance RSU Grant shares as granted in Year 1 for the performance target achieved in Year 0 Because of the one-year performance cycles and the Three-Year Retention Periods, in the event that the performance goals are achieved in consecutive years, the participant has the opportunity to earn multiple Performance RSU Grants in a given fiscal year, subject to such participants continued participation in the Program. The Performance RSU Grants vest quarterly over a four-year period after they are granted, subject to continued employment with the Company. The Performance RSU Grants will be evidenced by restricted stock unit award agreements between the participant and the Company. The Program and a form Program award letter are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. 10.1 Broadcom Corporation Restricted Stock Units Incentive Award Program, adopted January 18, 2011 10.2 Broadcom Corporation Restricted Stock Units Incentive Award Program  Form of Award Letter
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Section I. Purpose
The purpose of the Broadcom Corporation (the "") Restricted Stock Units Incentive Award Program (the "") is to
Company
Program
The Program is adopted under the Broadcom Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated March 12, 2008 (the ""). The Program
Plan
sets forth the terms and conditions for performance-based awards ("") to be granted to eligible officers under the Plan. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan.
Awards
Section II. Effective Date and Eligibility Criteria
The Program was established on [January 18], 2011. The Program shall have annual performance cycles, over which Performance Goals (as defined below) shall be measured. Each performance cycle shall be the one-year period beginning January 1 of a given year and ending December 31 of such year (the ""). The first Performance Cycle under the Program shall be the one-year period from [January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010]. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the ""), in its sole discretion, may authorize subsequent Performance Cycles. Participation in one or more Performance Cycles under the Program does not assure participation in any other Performance Cycle.
Performance Cycle
Committee
Service providers who are officers of the Company or a Subsidiary whose responsibilities have a direct and significant impact on Company performance and financial results shall be eligible to participate in the Program. The Committee shall, by written resolution and at its sole discretion, select individual officers to participate in the Program (each, a "") and shall advise the Participants in writing of their designation as Participants.
Participant
A Participant need not be employed by the Company on the first day of a Performance Cycle. If a Participant becomes eligible to participate in the Program during a Performance Cycle, the Committee shall determine if such Participant shall be eligible to participate in such Performance Cycle and whether or not an Award shall be prorated for such period from the Participant's date of hire or the date of such designation to participate in the Program, if later.
Section III. Awards and Award Calculation
A Participant shall have the opportunity to earn Awards under the Program based on the achievement of long-term Company performance.
1. 
Generally
Awards shall be made annually by the Committee and shall be communicated to each Participant pursuant to an award letter setting forth the Performance Goals (as defined below) for a given Performance Cycle and the maximum number of restricted stock units ("") that the Participant is eligible to receive if the Committee determines that such Performance Goals are met or exceeded during the Performance Cycle, measured in the calendar year immediately following the end of the Performance Cycle. Such calendar year and each of the two calendar years immediately thereafter, referred to as the "". All Performance RSU Grants shall be evidenced by an agreement between the Company and the Participant in a form approved by the Committee (the "").
Performance RSU Grant
Retention Period
RSU Agreement
2. 
Performance Goals
"" are defined as objectively determinable performance objectives established by the Committee in resolutions and communicated in writing to Participants and may be based upon one or more of the following business criteria as established by the Committee: sales growth; operating profitability; operating income; EBITDA; earnings; EPS; cash flow; market share; sales; revenue; profits before interest and taxes; expenses; cost of goods sold; profit margin; working capital; return on capital; equity or assets; economic value added; stock price; P/E ratio; or other objectively determinable business metrics appropriate in the judgment of the Committee; provided, however, that for purposes of items above, the Committee may, at the time the Awards are made, specify certain adjustments to such items as reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (""), which will exclude from the calculation of those Performance Goals one or more of the following: certain charges related to acquisitions, stock-based compensation, employer payroll tax expense on certain stock option exercises, settlement costs, restructuring costs, gains or losses on strategic investments, non-operating gains or losses, certain other non-cash charges, valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, and the related income tax effects, purchases of property and equipment, and any extraordinary non- recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30, provided that such adjustments are in conformity with those reported by the Company on a non-GAAP basis. In addition, such Performance Goals may be based upon the attainment of specified levels of the Company's performance under one or more of the measures described above relative to the performance of other entities and may also be based on the performance of any of the Company's business groups or divisions thereof or any Parent or Subsidiary. Performance Goals may include a minimum threshold level of performance below which no award will be earned, levels of performance at which specified portions of an award will be earned, and a maximum level of performance at which an award will be fully earned. The Committee may provide that, if the actual level of attainment for any performance objective is between two specified levels, the amount of the award attributable to that performance objective shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis.
Performance Goals
GAAP
For purposes of Awards that are intended to be "qualified performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("") (""), the Performance Goals shall be adopted for each Performance Cycle by the Committee no later than the latest time permitted by Section 162(m) of the Code ("") (generally, no later than 90 days after the commencement of the Performance Cycle) and while the performance relating to the Performance Goals remain substantially uncertain within the meaning of Section 162(m). The Awards for the 2010 Performance Cycle are not intended to be QPBC.
Code
QPBC
Section 162(m)
3. 
Performance RSU Grant Calculation
Participants must meet or exceed Performance Goals during the Performance Cycle in order to receive Performance RSU Grants. Upon attaining or exceeding the Performance Goals in a Performance Cycle, Participant shall be eligible to receive, in the year immediately following the end of the Performance Cycle, subject to the Participant's continued employment with the Company, a Performance RSU Grant, the maximum value of which shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion no later than the latest time permitted by Section 162(m) (the ""). In determining the Maximum Award Dollar Amount and the actual target amount, the Committee will review the analysis and market data provided by the Company's independent compensation consultant.
Maximum Award Dollar Amount
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Program, the Committee may reduce (including to zero) the Maximum Award Dollar Amount and/or number of shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock (the "") subject to a Performance RSU Grant below the amount or number of shares, as applicable, determined pursuant to the achievement of Performance Goals, in its sole discretion.
Common Stock
The same number of Performance RSU Grant shares as granted in the year immediately following the end of the Performance Cycle, if any, shall be granted in each of the two years thereafter, subject to the Participant's continued employment with the Company through each of the grant dates (after the Committee determines the number of shares to be awarded to a Participant, in its sole discretion, such number of shares may not be unilaterally reduced by the Committee, without written consent from the affected Participant).
For example, upon the attainment of the Performance Goals for a Performance Cycle, Performance RSU Grants shall be made in each of the following three years, as shown in the table below, subject to the Participant's continued employment with the Company.
Due to the one-year Performance Cycles and three-year Retention Periods, in the event that Performance Goals are achieved in consecutive years, Participants have the opportunity to earn multiple Performance RSU Grants in a given fiscal year, subject to Participant's continued participation in the Program.
Performance RSU Grants shall vest quarterly over a four-year period of continued employment with the Company (or a Subsidiary), measured from the vesting start date as set forth in the RSU Agreement for each such Performance RSU Grant. Performance RSU Grants shall entitle the Participant to receive one share of Common Stock at the time a unit vests.
Section IV. Award Payment Timing
Performance RSU Grants, if granted, in the Committee's sole discretion, shall be paid in shares of Common Stock as soon as practicable after they vest, and in no event later than the fifteenth (15) day of the third (3) month after the calendar year in which they vest.
th
rd
For purposes of Awards that are intended to be QPBC, no Awards shall be paid to Participants unless and until the Committee shall make a certification in writing with respect to the attainment of the Performance Goals as required by Section 162(m), and the Committee may in its sole discretion reduce an Award to a Participant, however, the Committee shall have no discretion to increase the amount of any such Award, as determined under the objectively determinable formulas.
The maximum Award to a Participant under the Program shall not exceed 9,000,000 shares of Common Stock with respect to any Performance Cycle.
A Participant must be in continuous employment with the Company (or a Subsidiary) through the grant date and subsequent vesting dates of such Awards and Performance RSU Grants. All Performance RSU Grants shall be evidenced by an RSU Agreement, which may provide for acceleration of vesting under specific circumstances. The Company shall deduct all federal, state and local taxes required by law or Company policy from any Award or Performance RSU Grants paid hereunder; provided, that such deduction shall be equal to the aggregate amount of such liabilities based on the minimum statutory withholding rates for federal, state and local income tax and payroll tax purposes that are applicable to such supplemental taxable income.
For purposes of Awards that are intended to be QPBC, once an Award formula is established based on one or more of the Performance Goals, the Committee may with the consent of the Participant establish (and once established, rescind, waive or amend) additional conditions and terms of payment of awards (including but not limited to the achievement of other financial, strategic or individual goals, which may be objective or subjective) as it deems desirable in carrying out the purposes of the Program and may take into account such other factors as it deems appropriate in administering any aspect of the Program. However, for purposes of Awards that are intended to be QPBC, the Committee shall have no authority to increase the amount of a targeted award granted to any Participant or to pay an award under the Program if the Performance Goals have not been satisfied.
Section V. Program Administration
The Program shall be administered by the Committee in accordance with the Plan and in a manner that satisfies the requirements of Section 162(m) for QPBC, if intended to be applicable.
Section VI. Absence of Program Funding; No Equity Interest
The Program shall be unfunded. Benefits under the Program shall be paid [in shares of Common Stock] from the general funds of the Company (or the Subsidiary), and a Participant (or the Participant's estate in the event of death) shall be no more than an unsecured general creditor of the Company (or the Subsidiary) with no special or prior right to any assets of the Company (or the Subsidiary).
Nothing contained in the Program shall be deemed to give any Participant any equity or other interest in the assets, business or affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary. It is not intended that a Participant's interest in the Program shall constitute a security or equity interest within the meaning of any state or federal securities laws.
Section VII. No Transferability
A Participant shall not have any right to transfer, sell, alienate, assign, pledge, mortgage, collateralize or otherwise encumber any of the payments provided by the Program.
Section VIII. No Employment Rights
The Program is not intended to be a contract of employment. Both the Participant and the Company and any Subsidiaries have the right to end their employment or other service relationship with or without cause or notice.
Section IX. Interpretation, Amendment and Termination
The Committee shall have the power to interpret all provisions of the Program, which interpretations shall be final and binding on all persons. The provisions of this document shall supersede all provisions of any and all such prior documents relating to the Program and its subject matter. However, if the provisions of this document conflict with any provision of the Plan, the provisions set forth in the Plan shall govern in all cases. The laws of the State of California shall govern all questions concerning the construction, validity and interpretation of the Program, without regard to such state's conflict of laws rules.
To the extent applicable, the Program shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code (""). Notwithstanding any provision of the Program to the contrary, in the event that the Company determines in good faith that any compensation or benefits payable under the Program may not be either exempt from or compliant with Section 409A, the Company may adopt such amendments to the Program or adopt other policies or procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effectiveness), or take any other commercially reasonable actions necessary or appropriate (i) to preserve the intended tax treatment of the compensation and benefits payable hereunder and/or preserve the economic benefits of such compensation and benefits, and/or (ii) to exempt the compensation and benefits payable hereunder from Section 409A or to comply with the requirements of Section 409A and thereby avoid the application of penalty taxes thereunder.
Section 409A
Notwithstanding anything in the Program to the contrary, to the extent that any payment or benefit constitutes non-exempt "nonqualified deferred compensation" for purposes of Section 409A, and such payment or benefit would otherwise be payable or distributable hereunder by reason of the Participant's termination of employment, all references to the Participant's termination of employment shall be construed to mean a "separation from service," as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h) (a ""), and the Participant shall not be considered to have a termination of employment unless such termination constitutes a Separation from Service with respect to the Participant.
Separation from Service
The Committee reserves the right to amend or terminate the Program at any time, with or without prior notice; provided, however, that all amendments to the Program shall preserve the qualification of any Awards intended to be QPBC under the Program as QPBC under Section 162(m). Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as provided below, the Committee may not amend the Program in a way that would materially impair the rights of a Participant with respect to a Performance Cycle that already has begun at the time of such amendment, except to the extent necessary to preserve the qualification of Awards as QPBC or unless such Participant has consented in writing to such amendment. In the event of any act of God, war, natural disaster, aircraft grounding, revocation of operating certificate, terrorism, strike, lockout, labor dispute, work stoppage, fire, epidemic or quarantine restriction, act of government, critical materials shortage, or any other act beyond the control of the Company, whether similar or dissimilar (each a ""), which Force Majeure Event affects the Company or its Subsidiaries or other affiliates, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (i) terminate or (ii) suspend, delay, defer (for such period of time as the Committee may deem necessary), or substitute any Awards due currently or in the future under the Program, including, but not limited to, any Awards that have accrued to the benefit of Participants but have not yet been paid, subject to Section 409A of the Code, and the regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder.
Force Majeure Event

VIA EMAIL AND U.S. MAIL
[Name] [Company] [Address] [email]
Dear [Name],
Broadcom (the "") is pleased to announce a new incentive program for eligible Company executive officers, which is intended to deliver significant capital accumulation opportunities for our executive officers by providing rewards for the long-term achievement of Company performance and financial goals.
Company
Currently, the Company delivers equity award opportunities to you through stock options at 50% of your annual target equity grant value, and restricted stock units for the remainder. Due to the Company's increased focus on (i) rewarding its executive officers for long-term achievement of Company goals with targeted value levels, (ii) minimizing unintended negative consequences of stock options and (iii) increasing the positive potential of restricted stock unit awards in our equity award packages, the Company is shifting to a restricted stock unit incentive award program (""). You have been selected to participate in the Program. As a participant in the Program, you have the opportunity to receive grants of restricted stock units ("") if the performance objectives established by the Compensation Committee by resolution for the current performance cycle (January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011, the "") have been met.
Program
Performance RSU Grants
2011 Performance Cycle
For 2011, the performance-based metrics are [insert metrics and goals.]
If the performance goals are met or exceeded for 2011, you will be eligible to receive, on or around [February 4, 2012], subject to your continued employment with the Company through the grant date, a Performance RSU Grant, the targeted value of which shall be equal to [   ]% of your [2012] total equity compensation amount as determined by the Compensation Committee, taking into consideration the market data provided by its independent compensation consultant, and the maximum value of which shall in no event exceed [$] (the defined "" per the program documents). The maximum Performance RSU Grant shall be equal to the quotient of (i) the Maximum Award Dollar Amount, divided by (ii) the fair market value of a share of the Company's Class A Common Stock (the "") on the date the Compensation Committee certifies the performance goals and determines the Performance RSU Grant (i.e., on or around [February 4, 2012]).
     
Maximum Award Dollar Amount
Common Stock
Please note that it is not expected that your actual Performance RSU Grant will be made at the Maximum Award Dollar Amount; rather, it is expected that the Compensation Committee will award less than the Maximum Award Dollar Amount and/or maximum Performance RSU Grant in its sole discretion.
Further, the same number of Performance RSU Grant shares as granted in 2012, if applicable, will be granted in each of 2013 and 2014, subject to your continued employment with the Company through each of such grant dates. For example, upon the attainment of the Performance Goals for the 2011 Performance Cycle, Performance RSU Grants shall be made in each of the following three years (the ""), as shown in the table below, subject to your continued employment with the Company:
Three-Year Retention Period
Because of the one-year Performance Cycles and Three-Year Retention Periods, in the event that the performance goals are achieved in consecutive years, you have the opportunity to earn multiple Performance RSU Grants in a given fiscal year, subject to your continued participation in the Program.
You must be in continuous employment with the Company through the grant date in order to receive a Performance RSU Grant. Performance RSU Grants vest quarterly over a four-year period, subject to your continued employment with the Company, measured from the vesting start date as set forth in the restricted stock unit award agreement for the Performance RSU Grant.
In addition to your opportunity to earn Performance RSU Grants, in 2012, you may be eligible to receive [ ]% of your 2012 annual target equity grant value in the form of time-vested restricted stock units outside of the Program (""). Such Time-Vested RSUs will vest quarterly over a four-year period, subject to your continued employment with the Company, measured from the vesting start date as set forth in the restricted stock unit award agreement for such Time-Vested RSUs.
Time-Vested RSUs
Further, as you know, the Company has enjoyed a very successful 2010 fiscal year. We are pleased to tell you that the Compensation Committee has determined that in 2011 you are eligible to receive a Performance RSU Grant in the amount equal to [ ]% of your 2011 target equity grant value, or [] shares, subject to your continued employment with the Company. You will also receive, subject to continuous employment with the Company, subsequent Performance RSU Grants of [] shares in 2012 and 2013 (the remaining two years of the Three-Year Retention Period). In addition, you are eligible to receive Time-Vested RSUs in the amount equal to [ ]% of your 2011 target equity grant value, or [] shares, subject to your continued employment with the Company. It is expected that your 2011 Performance RSU Grant and Time-Vested RSUs will be granted on or about [February 4], 2011.
      
      
      
Please carefully read the enclosed Program, as it contains the terms and conditions of the Program in detail. , attached to this letter, shows a few examples of the mechanics of the Program, for your information. If you have any questions about the Program or this letter, please feel free to contact me. On behalf of the Company, I would like to thank you and your team for the hard work and strong service that have contributed to our success.
Exhibit A
Sincerely,
[Name] [Position] Broadcom Corporation 5300 California Avenue Irvine, CA 92617
Assume for all examples that your Annual Target Equity Grant Value each year is $2,000,000. Assume further that the Compensation Committee determines each year that 25% of such target equity grant value shall be granted in performance-based Awards (with the remaining 75% granted in time-vested restricted stock units outside of the Program).


