FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20120816170206.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On August 16, 2012, Broadcom Corporation ("Broadcom" or the "Company") completed its previously announced private offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.500% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "Notes").
In connection with the closing of the Notes offering, Broadcom entered into the Third Supplemental Indenture, between Broadcom and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as successor by merger to Wilmington Trust FSB, as trustee (the "Trustee), dated August 16, 2012 (the "Third Supplemental Indenture"), to the indenture, between Broadcom and the Trustee, dated as of November 1, 2010 (the "Base Indenture" and, together with the Third Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture").
The Notes mature on August 15, 2022, and accrue interest at a rate of 2.500% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears in cash on February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning February 15, 2013.
Broadcom may redeem the Notes in whole or in part at any time or from time to time prior to May 15, 2022, at 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes to be redeemed plus a specified make-whole premium and on or after May 15, 2022, at 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes to be redeemed. In the event of a change of control triggering event, each holder of Notes will have the right to require Broadcom to purchase for cash all or a portion of such holder's Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Indenture contains covenants limiting Broadcom's ability to create certain liens, enter into sale and lease-back transactions, and consolidate or merge with or into, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all Broadcom's properties and assets to, another person, each subject to certain exceptions.
The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of the Base Indenture, filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed November 1, 2010, and the Third Supplemental Indenture, including the form of Notes, attached as Exhibit 4.1 hereto, in each case incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information set forth above under Item 1.01 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On August 16, 2012, the Board of Directors of Broadcom approved and adopted an amendment and restatement of the Company's Bylaws. The Amended and Restated Bylaws of Broadcom Corporation, as amended and restated through August 16, 2012 (the "Amended Bylaws"), include the following changes:
(i) Section 2.7 of the Bylaws has been amended to make clear that the advance notice provisions in the Bylaws shall not be deemed to affect any rights of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Company's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and
(ii) Section 3.13 of the Bylaws has been amended to provide that the term "writing" shall include electronic transmissions to the Company in accordance with sections 8 and 21 of the California Corporations Code, as such sections may be amended or superseded.
The Amended Bylaws took effect upon adoption by the Board. The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amended Bylaws, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
In connection with the sale of the Notes, Broadcom entered into a registration rights agreement, dated as of August 16, 2012, with the initial purchasers of the Notes (the "Registration Rights Agreement"). Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, Broadcom intends to file an exchange offer registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") with respect to an offer to exchange the Notes for notes that are substantially similar to the Notes (the "New Notes") (except that (i) interest on the New Notes will accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the Notes, (ii) the New Notes will not contain restrictions on transfer and (iii) the New Notes will not provide for the payment of additional interest). Broadcom will use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the exchange offer registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC and to consummate the exchange offer by no later than August 16, 2013. If Broadcom fails to complete the exchange offer by such deadline, then it will, with certain exceptions, be required to pay additional interest to the holders of the Notes.
The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 4.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
1.1
PRINCIPAL OFFICE
The Board of Directors shall fix the location of the principal executive office of the corporation at any place within or outside the State of California. If the principal executive office is located outside California and the corporation has one or more business offices in California, then the Board of Directors shall fix and designate a principal business office in California.
1.2
OTHER OFFICES
The Board of Directors may at any time establish branch or subordinate offices at any place or places.
2.1
PLACE OF MEETINGS
Meetings of shareholders (whether regular, special or adjourned) shall be held at any place within or outside the State of California designated by the Board of Directors. In the absence of any such designation, shareholders' meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation or any place consented to in writing by all persons entitled to vote at such meeting, given before or after the meeting and filed with the Secretary of the corporation.
A meeting of shareholders that is called by the Board of Directors may be conducted in whole or in part, by electronic transmission by and to the corporation or by electronic video screen communication, as permitted by the California Corporations Code (the "Code").
2.2
ANNUAL MEETING
An annual meeting of shareholders shall be held each year on a date and at a time designated by the Board of Directors. At that meeting, directors shall be elected. Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting of shareholders.
2.3
SPECIAL MEETINGS
Special meetings of the shareholders may be called at any time, for the purpose of taking any action permitted by the shareholders under the Code, by the Board of Directors or, subject to the provisions of Sections 2.4 and 2.5 of these Bylaws, the Chairman of the Board, the President or the holders of shares entitled to cast not less than ten percent (10%) of the votes at that meeting. For a special meeting of the shareholders to be properly brought by any person or persons other than the Board of Directors pursuant to the preceding sentence, the person or persons calling the meeting must have given timely notice thereof to the Secretary of the corporation and the business proposed to be conducted at such meeting must otherwise be a proper matter for shareholder action.
 
To be timely, such notice shall be delivered personally or sent by registered mail or by other written communication to the corporation, to the attention of the Secretary of the corporation, not later than the close of business on the 35th day nor earlier than the close of business of the 60th day prior to the date of the meeting proposed by the person or persons calling the meeting. Such notice shall set forth (i) the proposed date and time of the meeting, (ii) if a nomination is to be made for election or reelection as a director, all information relating to such nominee that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the " Exchange Act") and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (or any successor thereto) (including such nominee's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected), (iii) as to any other business that the person or persons calling the meeting propose to bring before the meeting, a description in reasonable detail of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest, direct or indirect, in such business of such person or persons and any other person or entity, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, and (iv) as to any shareholder giving the notice (a) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the corporation's books, and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, and (b) the class and the number of shares of the corporation that are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and by the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made.
Within five business days after receiving such a request from a shareholder or shareholders of the corporation, the Board of Directors shall determine whether such shareholder or shareholders have satisfied the requirements for calling a special meeting of the shareholders and notify the requesting party or parties of its findings. Upon notice meeting the requirements of this Section 2.3 by any person or persons entitled to call a special meeting of shareholders, the corporation shall cause notice to be given to the shareholders entitled to vote that a meeting will be held. Notice of special meetings shall be given in the manner set forth in Section 2.4 of these Bylaws and shall comply with the Code.
Nothing in this Section 2.3 shall be construed as limiting, fixing or affecting the time when a meeting of shareholders called by action of the Board of Directors may be held.
2.4
NOTICE OF SHAREHOLDERS MEETINGS
All notices of meetings of shareholders shall be sent or otherwise given in accordance with Section 2.5 of these Bylaws not less than ten (10) (or, if sent by third-class mail pursuant to Section 2.5 of these Bylaws, not less than thirty (30)) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each shareholder entitled to vote thereat. Such notice shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting and (i) in the case of a special meeting, the general nature of the business to be transacted and that no business other than that specified in the notice may be transacted, or (ii) in the case of the annual meeting, those matters which the Board of Directors at the time of the mailing of the notice, intends to present for action by the shareholders, but, subject to the provisions of the next paragraph of this Section 2.4, Section 2.6 and Section 2.7, any proper matter may be presented at such annual meeting for such action. The notice of any meeting at which directors are to be elected shall include the names of nominees intended at the time of the notice to be presented by the Board of Directors for election. If the meeting is to be held in whole or in part by electronic transmission, the notice shall state the means of electronic transmission by and to the corporation or electronic video screen communication, if any, by which shareholders may participate in the meeting.
If action is proposed to be taken at any meeting for approval of (i) a contract or transaction in which a director has a direct or indirect financial interest, pursuant to Section 310 of the Code, (ii) an amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, pursuant to Section 902 of the Code, (iii) a plan of conversion pursuant to Section 1152 of the Code, (iv) a reorganization of the corporation, pursuant to Section 1201 of the Code, (v) a voluntary dissolution of the corporation, pursuant to Section 1900 of the Code, or (vi) a distribution in dissolution other than in accordance with the rights of any outstanding preferred shares, pursuant to Section 2007 of the Code, then the notice shall also state the general nature of that proposal.
 
The Chairman of the Board, or such other officer of the corporation designated by a majority of the Board of Directors, will call meetings of the shareholders to order and will act as presiding officer thereof. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors prior to the meeting, the presiding officer of the meeting of shareholders will also determine the order of business and have the authority in his or her sole discretion to regulate the conduct of any such meeting, including without limitation by (i) imposing restrictions on the persons (other than shareholders of the corporation or their duly appointed proxies) who may attend any such shareholders' meeting, (ii) ascertaining whether any shareholder or his or her proxy may be excluded from any meeting of shareholders based upon any determination by the presiding officer, in his or her sole discretion, that any such person has unduly disrupted or is likely to disrupt the proceedings thereat, and (iii) determining the circumstances in which any person may make a statement or ask questions at any meeting of shareholders.
2.5
MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE; AFFIDAVIT OF NOTICE
Notice of a shareholders' meeting shall be given (i) personally, in writing, (ii) by first-class mail or, if the corporation has outstanding shares held of record by five hundred (500) or more persons (determined as provided in Section 605 of the Code) on the record date for the shareholders' meeting, by third-class mail, in writing, or (iii) by electronic transmission by the corporation or other means of communication, as permitted by the Code. Notices not personally delivered shall be sent charges prepaid and shall be addressed to the shareholder at the physical or electronic address of the shareholder appearing on the books of the corporation or given by the shareholder to the corporation for the purpose of notice, or if no such address appears or is given, at the place where the principal executive office of the corporation is located. If no such address appears on the corporation's books or is given, notice shall be deemed to have been given if sent to that shareholder by mail or other means of written communication to the corporation's principal executive office, or if published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the principal executive office is located. The notice shall be deemed to have been given at the time when delivered personally, sent by electronic transmission by the corporation, deposited in the mail, published in an appropriate newspaper or sent by other means of written communication.
If any notice addressed to a shareholder at the address of such shareholder appearing on the books of the corporation is returned to the corporation by the United States Postal Service marked to indicate that the United States Postal Service is unable to deliver the notice to the shareholder at that address, all future notices shall be deemed to have been duly given without further mailing if the same shall be available to the shareholder upon written demand of the shareholder at the principal executive office of the corporation for a period of one (1) year from the date of the giving of the notice.
An affidavit of delivery, mailing or electronic transmission of any notice or report in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.5, executed by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the corporation, or any transfer agent, shall be prima facie evidence of the giving of the notice or report.
2.6
ADVANCE NOTICE OF SHAREHOLDER NOMINEES
Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the corporation may be made at a meeting of shareholders by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or by any shareholder of the corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section. Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than sixty (60) days and not more than ninety (90) days prior to the first anniversary of the day on which notice of the date of the prior year's annual meeting was first mailed or delivered.
Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to each person, if any, whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director: (a) a resume of the candidate's business experience and educational background that also includes the candidate's name, age, business and residence address, and principal occupation or employment, (b) a written explanation of how the candidate's background and qualifications are directly relevant to the corporation's business, (c) the class and number of shares of the corporation that are beneficially owned by
 
such person, (d) any other information relating to such person that would be required by law to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, (e) such person's written consent to being named as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected, and (f) any other information as the Board of Directors or a nomination or similar committee appointed by the Board of Directors may require pursuant to resolutions of the Board of Directors or such committee's charter; and (ii) as to the shareholder giving the notice: (a) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (b) the class and number of shares of the corporation that are beneficially owned and of record by such shareholder and by any beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is proposed, (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between or among any of (A) such shareholder, (B) each nominee and (C) any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) relating to the nomination or pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by such shareholder, and (d) any material interest, direct or indirect, of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made. At the request of the Board of Directors, any person nominated by the Board for election as a director shall furnish to the Secretary of the corporation that information required to be set forth in the shareholder's notice of nomination that pertains to the nominee.
No person nominated by a shareholder shall be eligible for election as a director of the corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section. The presiding officer of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if the presiding officer should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
2.7
ADVANCE NOTICE OF SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS
At an annual meeting of the shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be: (i) as specified in the notice of the meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a shareholder. Business to be brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder shall not be considered properly brought if the shareholder has not given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than sixty (60) days and not more than ninety (90) days prior to the first anniversary of the day on which notice of the date of the prior year's annual meeting was first mailed or delivered.
A shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting: (i) a description in reasonable detail of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of the shareholder proposing such business and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (iii) the class and number of shares of the corporation that are beneficially owned and held of record by the shareholder and by the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (iv) any material interest, direct or indirect, of the shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made in such business, and (v) any other information that is required by law to be provided by the shareholder in his or her capacity as a proponent of a shareholder proposal. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section. The presiding officer of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting whether business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section, and if the presiding officer should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the meeting that any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
Nothing in this Section or any other Section shall be deemed to affect any rights of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act (or any successor provision of law).
 
2.8
QUORUM
Unless otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation of the corporation, shares entitled to vote and holding a majority of the voting power, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of shareholders. Shares shall not be counted to make up a quorum for a meeting if voting of such shares at the meeting has been enjoined or for any reason they cannot be lawfully voted at the meeting. The shareholders present at a duly called or held meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact business until adjournment notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum, if any action taken (other than adjournment) is approved by shares holding at least a majority of the voting power required to constitute a quorum, or if required by the Code or the Articles of Incorporation, the vote of a greater number or voting by classes.
In the absence of a quorum, any meeting of shareholders may be adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the shares represented either in person or by proxy, but no other business may be transacted, except as provided in the last sentence of the preceding paragraph.
2.9
ADJOURNED MEETING NOTICE
Any shareholders' meeting, annual or special, whether or not a quorum is present, may be adjourned from time to time by the shares entitled to vote and holding a majority of the voting power, represented in person or by proxy, at that meeting, but in the absence of a quorum, no other business may be presented at such meeting for action or otherwise transacted at such meeting, except as provided in Section 2.8 of these Bylaws.
When any meeting of shareholders, either annual or special, is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if its time and place are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. However, if the adjournment is for more than forty-five (45) days from the date set for the original meeting or if a new record date for the adjourned meeting is fixed, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting in accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.4 and 2.5 of these Bylaws. At any adjourned meeting the corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
2.10
VOTING
The shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.13 of these Bylaws, subject to the provisions of Sections 702 through 704 of the Code (relating to voting shares held by a fiduciary, in the name of a corporation, or in joint ownership).
Elections for directors and voting on any other matter at a shareholders' meeting need not be by ballot unless a shareholder demands election by ballot at the meeting and before the voting begins.
Except as provided in the last paragraph of this Section 2.10, each outstanding share shall be entitled to that number of votes set forth in the Articles of Incorporation on each matter submitted to a vote of the shareholders. Any holder of shares entitled to vote on any matter may vote part of the shares in favor of the proposal and refrain from voting the remaining shares or may vote them against the proposal other than elections to office, but, if the shareholder fails to specify the number of shares such shareholder is voting affirmatively, it will be conclusively presumed that the shareholder's approving vote is with respect to all shares which the shareholder is entitled to vote.
The affirmative vote of shares holding a majority of the voting power, represented and voting at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present (which shares voting affirmatively also constitute at least a majority of the voting power required to constitute a quorum), shall be the act of the shareholders, unless the vote of a greater number of voting by classes is required by the Code or by the Articles of Incorporation.
The shareholders of the corporation shall not have the right to cumulate their votes for the election of directors of the corporation.
 
2.11
VALIDATION OF MEETINGS; WAIVER OF NOTICE CONSENT
The transactions of any meeting of shareholders, either annual or special, however called and noticed, and whenever held, are as valid as though they had been taken at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum be present either in person or by proxy, and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the persons entitled to vote, not present in person or by proxy, provides a waiver of notice or a consent to the holding of the meeting or an approval of the minutes thereof in writing. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of shareholders need be specified in any written waiver of notice or consent to the holding of the meeting or approval of the minutes thereof, except that if action is taken or proposed to be taken for approval of any of those matters specified in the second paragraph of Section 2.4 of these Bylaws, the waiver of notice or consent or approval shall state the general nature of the proposal. All such waivers, consents, and approval shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of and presence at that meeting, except when the person objects, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened, and except that attendance at a meeting is not a waiver of any right to object to the consideration of matters required by the Code to be included in the notice of such meeting and not so included, if such objection is expressly made at the meeting.
2.12
SHAREHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
Any action which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting and without prior notice, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding shares having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, directors may not be elected by written consent except by unanimous written consent of all shares entitled to vote for the election of directors; provided that the shareholders may elect a director to fill any vacancy not filled by the Board of Directors, other than a vacancy created by removal, by the written consent of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote.
All such consents shall be maintained in the corporate records. Any shareholder giving a written consent, or the shareholder's proxy holders, or a transferee of the shares, or a personal representative of the shareholder, or their respective proxy holders, may revoke the consent personally or by proxy by a writing received by the Secretary of the corporation before written consents of the number of shares required to authorize the proposed action have been filed with the Secretary of the corporation.
If the consents of all shareholders entitled to vote have not been solicited in writing, the Secretary of the corporation shall give prompt notice of any corporate action approved by the shareholders without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent to those shareholders entitled to vote who have not consented in writing. Such notice shall be given in the manner specified in Section 2.5 of these Bylaws. In the case of approval of (i) a contract or transaction in which a director has a direct or indirect financial interest, pursuant to Section 310 of the Code, (ii) indemnification of a corporate "agent," pursuant to Section 317 of the Code, (iii) a plan of conversion pursuant to Section 1152 of the Code, (iv) a reorganization of the corporation, pursuant to Section 1201 of the Code, and (v) a distribution in dissolution other than in accordance with the rights of outstanding preferred shares, pursuant to Section 2007 of the Code, the notice shall be given at least ten (10) days before the consummation of any action authorized by that approval, unless the consents of all shareholders entitled to vote have been solicited in writing.
2.13
RECORD DATE FOR SHAREHOLDER NOTICE; VOTING; GIVING CONSENTS
In order that the corporation may determine the shareholders entitled to notice of any meeting or to vote or entitled to give consent to corporate action without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days prior to the date of such meeting nor more than sixty (60) days before any other action. Only shareholders at the close of business on the record date are entitled to notice and to vote or give consents, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date, except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation or the Code.
 
A determination of shareholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting, but the Board of Directors shall fix a new record date if the meeting is adjourned for more than forty-five (45) days from the date set for the original meeting.
If the Board of Directors does not so fix a record date:
(a) The record date for determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall be at the close of business on the business day next preceding the day on which notice is given or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the business day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
(b) The record date for determining shareholders entitled to give consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, (i) when no prior action by the Board of Directors has been taken, shall be the day on which the first written consent is given, or (ii) when prior action by the Board of Directors has been taken, shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto, or the sixtieth (60th) day prior to the date of such other action, whichever is later.
The record date for any other purpose shall be as provided in Section 8.1 of these Bylaws.
2.14
PROXIES
Every person entitled to vote for directors, or on any other matter, shall have the right to do so either in person or by one or more agents authorized by a written proxy signed by the person and filed with the Secretary of the corporation. A proxy shall be deemed signed if the shareholder's name or other authorization is placed on the proxy (whether by manual signature, typewriting, telegraphic or electronic transmission or otherwise) by the shareholder or the shareholder's attorney-in-fact. A proxy may be transmitted by telephonic transmission if it is submitted with information from which it may be determined that the proxy was authorized by the shareholder or the shareholder's attorney-in-fact. A validly executed proxy which does not state that it is irrevocable shall continue in full force and effect unless (i) the person who executed the proxy revokes it prior to the time of voting by delivering a writing to the corporation stating that the proxy is revoked or by executing a subsequent proxy and presenting it to the meeting or by attendance at such meeting and voting in person, or (ii) written notice of the death or incapacity of the maker of that proxy is received by the corporation before the vote pursuant to that proxy is counted; provided, however, that no proxy shall be valid after the expiration of eleven (11) months from the date thereof, unless otherwise provided in the proxy. The dates contained on the forms of proxy presumptively determine the order of execution, regardless of the postmark dates on the envelopes in which they are mailed. The revocability of a proxy that states on its face that it is irrevocable shall be governed by the provisions of Sections 705(e) and 705(f) of the Code.
2.15
INSPECTORS OF ELECTION
In advance of any meeting of shareholders, the Board of Directors may appoint an inspector or inspectors of election to act at the meeting and any adjournment thereof. If an inspector or inspectors of election are not so appointed or if any persons so appointed fail to appear or refuse to act, then the Chairman of the meeting may, and on the request of any shareholder or a shareholder's proxy shall, appoint inspectors of election (or persons to replace those who so fail to appear) at the meeting. The number of inspectors shall be either one (1) or three (3). If appointed at a meeting on the request of one (1) or more shareholders or proxies, shares holding a majority of the voting power, represented in person or by proxy, shall determine whether one (1) or three (3) inspectors are to be appointed.
The inspectors of election shall determine the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, the shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, and the authenticity, validity, and effect of proxies, receive votes, ballots or consents, hear and determine all challenges and questions in any way arising in connection with the right to vote, count and tabulate all votes or consents, determine when the polls shall close, determine the result and do any other acts that may be proper to conduct the election or vote with fairness to all shareholders.
 
3.1
POWERS
Subject to the provisions of the Code, any limitations in the Articles of Incorporation and these Bylaws relating to action required to be approved by the shareholders or by the outstanding shares, the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may delegate the management of the day-to-day operation of the business of the corporation to a management company or other person provided that the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised under the ultimate direction of the Board of Directors.
3.2
NUMBER OF DIRECTORS
The authorized number of directors of the corporation shall be not less than six (6) nor more than eleven (11), and the exact number of directors shall be set from time to time within the limits specified above, by a resolution amending such exact number, duly adopted by the Board of Directors or by the shareholders. The minimum and maximum number of directors may be changed, or a definite number may be fixed without provision for an indefinite number, by a duly adopted amendment to the Articles of Incorporation or by an amendment to this Bylaw duly adopted by vote or written consent of holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares entitled to vote; provided, however, that an amendment reducing the fixed number or the minimum number of directors to less than five (5) cannot be adopted if the votes cast against its adoption at a meeting, or the shares not consenting in the case of an action by written consent, are equal to more than sixteen and two-thirds percent (16 2/3%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. No amendment may change the stated maximum number of authorized directors to a number greater than two (2) times the stated minimum number of directors minus one (1).
No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director before that director's term of office expires.
3.3
ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE OF DIRECTORS
At each annual meeting of shareholders, directors shall be elected to hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders. Each director, including a director elected to fill a vacancy, shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which elected and until a successor has been elected and qualified, except in the case of the death, resignation or removal of such a director. Directors need not be shareholders.
3.4
REMOVAL
The entire Board of Directors or any individual director may be removed from office without cause by the affirmative vote of shares holding a majority of the voting power that are entitled to vote on such removal; provided, however, that unless the entire Board of Directors is removed, no individual director may be removed when the votes cast against such director's removal, or not consenting in writing to such removal, would be sufficient to elect that director if voted cumulatively (without regard to whether such shares may be voted cumulatively) at an election at which the same total number of votes cast were cast (or, if such action is taken by written consent, all shares entitled to vote were voted) and the entire number of directors authorized at the same time of such director's most recent election were then being elected. If any or all directors are so removed, new directors may be elected at the same meeting or at a subsequent meeting. If at any time a class or series of shares is entitled to elect one (1) or more directors under authority granted by the Articles of Incorporation, the provisions of this Section 3.4 shall apply to the vote of that class or series and not to the vote of the outstanding shares as a whole.
 
3.5
RESIGNATION AND VACANCIES
Any director may resign effective upon giving oral or written notice to the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Secretary or the Board of Directors of the corporation, unless the notice specifies a later time for the effectiveness of such resignation. If the resignation of a director is effective at a future time, the Board of Directors may elect a successor to take office when the resignation becomes effective.
Vacancies on the Board of Directors may be filled by (i) a majority of the remaining directors even if the number of directors then in office is less than a quorum, (ii) unanimous written consent of the directors then in office, or (iii) a sole remaining director; however, a vacancy created by the removal of a director by the vote or written consent of the shareholders or by court order may be filled only by the affirmative vote of shares holding a majority of the voting power represented and voting at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present (which shares voting affirmatively also constitute at least a majority of the voting power required to constitute a quorum), or by the unanimous written consent of all shares entitled to vote thereon. Each director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the shareholders and until a successor has been elected and qualified, or until his or her death, resignation or removal.
A vacancy or vacancies in the Board of Directors shall be deemed to exist (i) in the event of the death, resignation or removal of any director, (ii) if the Board of Directors resolution declares vacant the office of a director who has been declared of unsound mind by an order of court or convicted of a felony, (iii) if the authorized number of directors is increased, or (iv) if the shareholders fail, at any meeting of shareholders at which any director or directors are elected, to elect the full number of directors to be elected at that meeting.
The shareholders may elect a director or directors at any time to fill any vacancy or vacancies not filled by the directors, but any such election by written consent, other than to fill a vacancy created by removal, shall require the consent of shares holding a majority of the voting power that are entitled to vote thereon. A director may not be elected by written consent to fill a vacancy created by removal except by unanimous consent of all shares entitled to vote for the election of directors.
3.6
PLACE OF MEETINGS; MEETINGS BY TELEPHONE
Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any place within or outside the State of California that has been designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. In the absence of such a designation, regular meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any place within or outside the State of California that has been designated in the notice of the meeting or, if not stated in the notice or if there is no notice, at the principal executive office of the corporation.
Members of the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting through the use of a conference telephone, electronic video screen communication or similar electronic communications equipment. Participation in a meeting through the use of conference telephone or electronic video screen communication constitutes presence in person at that meeting so long as all directors participating in such meeting can hear one another. Participation in a meeting through electronic transmission by and to the corporation (other than conference telephone and electronic video screen communication) constitutes presence in person at that meeting if both of the following apply: (a) each member participating in the meeting can communicate with all of the other members concurrently; and (b) each member is provided the means of participating in all matters before the Board of Directors, including, without limitation, the capacity to propose, or to interpose an objection to, a specific action to be taken by the corporation.
3.7
REGULAR MEETINGS
Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice if the time and place of such meetings are fixed by the Board of Directors.
 
3.8
SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE
Subject to the provisions of the following paragraph, special meetings of the Board of Directors for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary or any two (2) directors of the corporation.
Notice of the time and place of special meetings shall be delivered personally or by telephone, including a voice messaging system or other system or technology designed to record and communicate messages, or sent by first class mail or telegram (charges prepaid) or facsimile transmission, in each case addressed to each director at the director's address or facsimile telephone number as it is shown on the records of the corporation, or by electronic mail or other electronic means to the director at the director's electronic address as it is shown on the records of the corporation. If the notice is mailed, it shall be deposited in the United States mail at least four (4) days before the time of the holding of the meeting. If the notice is delivered personally or by telephone (including a voice messaging system or other system or technology designed to record and communicate messages), facsimile, telegram, electronic mail or other electronic means, it shall be delivered personally or by telephone, by facsimile, to the telegraph company or by electronic mail or other electronic means at least forty-eight (48) hours before the time of the holding of the meeting. An oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated either to the director or to a person at the office of the director who the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director. The notice need not specify the purpose of the meeting.
3.9
QUORUM
A majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except to adjourn as provided in Section 3.11 of these Bylaws. Every act or decision done or made by a majority of the directors present at a meeting duly held at which a quorum is present is the act of the Board of Directors, subject to the provisions of Section 310 of the Code (as to the approval of contracts or transactions in which a director has a direct or indirect material financial interest), Section 311 of the Code (as to the appointment of committees), Section 317(a) of the Code (as to the indemnification of directors), the Articles of Incorporation, and other applicable law.
A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action taken is approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for such meeting.
3.10
WAIVER OF NOTICE
Notice of a meeting need not be given to any director who provides a waiver of notice or a consent to holding the meeting or an approval of the minutes thereof in writing, whether before or after the meeting, or who attends the meeting without protesting, prior thereto or at its commencement, the lack of notice to such director. Waivers may be given to the corporation personally, by facsimile transmission, or by electronic mail or other electronic means. All such waivers, consents and approval shall be filed with the corporate records or be made a part of the minutes of the meeting. A waiver of notice need not specify the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors.
3.11
ADJOURNMENT
A majority of the directors present, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn any meeting to another time and place.
3.12
NOTICE OF ADJOURNMENT
If the meeting is adjourned for over twenty-four (24) hours, notice of any adjournment to another time and place shall be given prior to the time of the adjourned meeting to the directors who were not present at the time of the adjournment in the manner provided in Section 3.8.
 
3.13
BOARD ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board of Directors individually or collectively consent in writing to such action. "Writing" shall include electronic transmissions to the corporation in accordance with sections 8 and 21 of the Code, as such sections may be amended or superseded. Such written consent or consents and any counterparts thereof shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board of Directors. Such action by written consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote of the Board of Directors.
3.14
FEES AND COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
Directors and members of committees may receive such compensation, if any, for their services and such reimbursement of expenses as may be fixed or determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. This Section 3.14 shall not be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee or otherwise and from receiving compensation for those services.
3.15
APPROVAL OF LOANS TO OFFICERS
The corporation may, upon the approval of the Board of Directors alone, make loans of money or property to, or guarantee the obligations of, any officer of the corporation or of its parent, if any, or adopt an employee benefit plan or plans authorizing such loans or guaranties provided that (i) the Board of Directors determines that such a loan or guaranty or plan may reasonably be expected to benefit the corporation, (ii) the corporation has outstanding shares of record by 100 or more persons (determined as provided in Section 605 of the Code) on the date of approval of the Board of Directors, and (iii) the approval of the Board of Directors is by a vote sufficient without counting the vote of any interested director or directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the corporation's ability to make loans to its officers shall be subject to all other limitations and requirements set forth in the Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as may be amended from time to time.
4.1
COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS
The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the authorized number of directors, designate one or more committees, each consisting of two (2) or more directors, to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent member at any meeting of the committee. The appointment of members or alternate members of a committee requires the vote of a majority of the authorized number of the directors. Any such committee shall have authority to act in the manner and to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors and may have all the authority of the Board of Directors, except with respect to:
(a) The approval of any action which, under the Code, also requires shareholders' approval or approval of the outstanding shares.
(b) The filling of vacancies on the Board of Directors or on any committee.
(c) The fixing of compensation of the directors for serving on the Board of Directors or on any committee.
(d) The amendment or repeal of these Bylaws or the adoption of new Bylaws.
(e) The amendment or repeal of any resolution of the Board of Directors which by its express terms is not so amendable or repealable.
 
(f) A distribution to the shareholders of the corporation, except at a rate, in a periodic amount or within a price range set forth in the Articles of Incorporation or determined by the Board of Directors.
(g) The appointment or designation of any other committee of the Board of Directors or the members thereof.
4.2
MEETINGS AND ACTIONS OF COMMITTEES
Meetings and actions of committee shall be governed by, and held and taken in accordance with, the provisions of Article III of these Bylaws, Section 3.6 (place of meetings), Section 3.7 (regular meetings; meetings by telephone), Section 3.8 (special meetings and notice), Section 3.9 (quorum), Section 3.10 (waiver of notice), Section 3.11 (adjournment), Section 3.12 (notice of adjournment), and Section 3.13 (action without meeting), with such changes in the context of those Bylaws as are necessary to substitute the committee and its members for the Board of Directors and its members; provided, however, that the time of regular meetings of committees may be determined either by resolution of the Board of Directors or by resolution of the committee, that special meetings of the Committees may also be called by resolution of the Board of Directors, and that notice of special meetings of committees shall also be given to all alternate members, who shall have the right to attend all meetings of the committee. The Board of Directors may adopt rules for the government of any committee not inconsistent with the provisions of these Bylaws.
5.1
OFFICERS
The officers of a corporation shall be a President, a Secretary and a Chief Financial Officer. The corporation may also have, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, a Chairman of the Board, one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries and such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.10 of these Bylaws. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
5.2
ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The officers of the corporation, except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.10 of these Bylaws, shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors, subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment. Officers chosen by the Board are referred to as "elected officers" in these Bylaws.
5.3
REMOVAL OR RESIGNATION OF OFFICERS
Subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment, all officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or, except in case of an officer chosen by the Board of Directors, by any officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the Board of Directors.
Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the corporation. Any resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of that notice or at any later time specified in that notice, and, unless otherwise specified in that notice, the acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Any resignation is without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the corporation under any contract to which the officer is a party.
5.4
VACANCY IN OFFICES
A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause shall be filled in the manner prescribed by these Bylaws for regular elections to that office.
 
5.5
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
The Chairman of the Board, if such an officer be elected, shall, if present, preside at meetings of the Board of Directors and exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Board of Directors or as may be prescribed by these Bylaws. If there is no President, then the Chairman of the Board shall also be the chief executive officer of the corporation and shall have the powers and duties prescribed in Section 5.6 of these Bylaws.
5.6
PRESIDENT
Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the Board of Directors to the Chairman of the Board, if there be such an officer, the President shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation and shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction and control of the business and the officers of the corporation. The President shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of President of a corporation, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws.
5.7
VICE PRESIDENTS
In the absence or disability of the President, the Vice Presidents, if any, in order of their rank as fixed by the Board of Directors or, if not ranked, a Vice President designated by the Board of Directors, shall perform all the duties of the President and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the President. The Vice Presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors, these Bylaws, the President or the Chairman of the Board.
5.8
SECRETARY
The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the corporation or other such place as the Board of Directors may direct, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of the Board of Directors, committees of directors and shareholders. The minutes shall show the time and place of each meeting, whether regular or special (and, if special, how authorized and the notice given), the names of those present at directors' meetings or committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at shareholders' meetings, and the proceedings thereof.
The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the corporation or at the office of the corporation's transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the Board of Directors, a share register, or a duplicate share register, showing the names of all shareholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and dates of certificates evidencing certificated shares, and the number and dates of issuance of uncertificated shares, and the number and dates of cancellation of certificated shares surrendered for cancellation or of uncertificated shares. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meeting of shareholders and of the Board of Directors required to be given by law or by these Bylaws. The Secretary shall keep the seal of the corporation, if one be adopted, in safe custody and shall have such other powers and perform other such duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by these Bylaws.
5.9
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
The Chief Financial Officer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings and shares. The books of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director. The Chief Financial Officer shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws.
 
5.10
OFFICERS APPOINTED BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
The Chief Executive Officer shall have the power, in the exercise of his or her discretion, to appoint additional persons to hold positions and titles such as vice president of the corporation or a division of the corporation or president of a division of the corporation, or similar such titles, as the business of the corporation may require, subject to such limits in appointment power as the Board of Directors may determine.
Each such appointee shall have such title, shall serve in such capacity and shall have such authority and perform such duties as the Chief Executive Officer shall determine. Appointees may hold titles such as "president" of a division or other group within the corporation, or "vice president" of the corporation or of a division or other group within the corporation. However, any such appointee, absent specific designation by the Board of Directors as an elected corporate officer, (i) shall not be considered an officer elected by the Board of Directors pursuant to this Article V and shall not have the executive powers or authority of corporate officers elected pursuant to this Article V, (ii) shall not be considered (1) an "officer" of the corporation for the purposes of Rule 3b-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act, or an "executive officer" of the corporation for the purposes of Rule 3b-7 promulgated under the Exchange Act, and similarly shall not be considered an "officer" of the corporation for the purposes of Section 16 of the Exchange Act or an "executive officer" of the Corporation for the purposes of Section 14 of the Exchange Act or (2) a "corporate officer" for the purposes of Section 312 of the Code, except in any such case as otherwise required by law, and (iii) shall be empowered to represent himself or herself to third parties as an appointed vice president, etc., only, and shall be empowered to execute documents, bind the corporation or otherwise act on behalf of the corporation only as authorized by the Chief Executive Officer or the President or by resolution of the Board of Directors.
An elected officer of the corporation may also serve in an appointed capacity hereunder.
6.1
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
The corporation shall, to the maximum extent and in the manner permitted by the Code, indemnify each of its directors and officers against expenses (as defined in Section 317(a) of the Code), judgment, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceeding (as defined in Section 317(a) of the Code), arising by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the corporation. For purposes of this Article VI, a "director" or "officer" of the corporation includes any person (i) who is or was a director or elected officer of the corporation (as defined in Section 5.2 of these Bylaws), (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or entity, or (iii) who was a director or elected officer of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.
6.2
INDEMNIFICATION OF OTHERS
The corporation shall have the power, to the extent and in the manner permitted by the Code, to indemnify each of its employees and agents (other than directors and elected officers) against expenses (as defined in Section 317(a) of the Code), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceeding (as defined in Section 317(a) of the Code), arising by reason of the fact that such person is or was an employee or agent of the corporation. For purposes of this Article VI, an "employee" or "agent" of the corporation (other than a director or officer) includes any person (i) who is or was an employee or agent of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as an employee or agent of another foreign or domestic corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or entity or (ii) who was an employee or agent of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.
 
6.3
PAYMENT OF EXPENSES IN ADVANCE
Expenses (as defined in Section 317 of the Code) and attorneys' fees incurred in defending any civil or criminal action or proceeding (as defined in Section 317 of the Code) for which indemnification is required pursuant to Section 6.1, or if otherwise authorized by the Board of Directors, shall be paid by the corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the indemnified party to repay such an amount if it shall ultimately be determined that the indemnified party is not entitled to be indemnified as authorized in this Article VI. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the corporation shall not be required to advance such expenses to an agent (as defined in Section 317 of the Code) who is a party to an action, suit or proceeding brought by the corporation and approved by a majority of the Board of Directors that alleges willful misappropriation of corporate assets by such agent, wrongful disclosure of confidential information, or any other willful and deliberate breach in bad faith of such agent's duty to the corporation or its shareholders.
6.4
INDEMNITY NOT EXCLUSIVE
The indemnification provided by this Article VI shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification may be entitled under any Bylaw, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in an official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, to the extent such additional rights to indemnification are authorized by the Articles of Incorporation. The rights to indemnity hereunder shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of the person.
6.5
INSURANCE INDEMNIFICATION
The corporation shall have the power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation against any liability asserted against or incurred by such person in such capacity or arising out of that person's status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify that person against such liability under the provisions of this Article VI.
6.6
CONFLICTS
No indemnification or advance shall be made under this Article VI, except where such indemnification or advance is mandated by law or the order, judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, in any circumstance where it appears:
(a) That it would be inconsistent with the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation, these Bylaws, a resolution of the shareholders or an agreement in effect at the time of the accrual of the alleged cause of the action asserted in the proceeding in which the expenses were incurred or other amounts were paid, which prohibits or otherwise limits indemnification; or
(b) That it would be inconsistent with any condition expressly imposed by a court in approving a settlement.
6.7
RIGHT TO BRING SUIT
The rights to indemnification in this section shall be contract rights. If a claim under this Article VI is not paid in full by the corporation within 90 days after a written claim has been received by the corporation (either because the claim is denied or because no determination is made), the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall also be entitled to be paid the expenses of prosecuting such claim. The corporation shall be entitled to raise as a defense to any such action that the claimant has not met the standards of
 
conduct that make it permissible under the Code for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the claim. Neither the failure of the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its shareholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is permissible in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct, if any, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including the Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its shareholders) that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to such action or create a presumption for the purposes of such action that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
6.8
INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENTS
The Board of Directors is authorized to enter into a contract with any director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or any person who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or entity, including employee benefit plans, or any person who was a director, officer, employee or agent of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation, providing for indemnification rights equivalent to or, if the Board of Directors so determines and to the extent permitted by applicable law, greater than, those provided for in this Article VI.
6.9
AMENDMENT, REPEAL OR MODIFICATION
Any amendment, repeal or modification of any provision of this Article VI shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director, employee, officer or agent of the corporation existing at the time of such amendment, repeal or modification.
7.1
MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF SHARE REGISTER
The corporation shall keep either at its principal executive office or at the office of its transfer agent or registrar (if either be appointed), as determined by resolution of the Board of Directors, a record of its shareholders listing the names and addresses of all shareholders and the number and class of shares held by each shareholder.
A shareholder or shareholders of the corporation holding at least five percent (5%) in the aggregate of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation or who held at least one percent (1%) of such voting shares and have filed a Schedule 14A with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, shall have an absolute right to do either or both of the following (i) inspect and copy the record of shareholders' names, addresses, and shareholdings during usual business hours upon five (5) days' prior written demand upon the corporation, or (ii) obtain from the transfer agent of the corporation, upon written demand and upon the tender of such transfer agent's usual charges for such list (the amount of which charges shall be stated to the shareholder by the transfer agent upon request), a list of the shareholders' names and addresses who are entitled to vote for the election of the directors, and their shareholdings, as of the most recent record date for which it has been compiled or as of the date specified by the shareholder subsequent to the date of demand. The list shall be made available on or before the later of five (5) business days after the demand is received or the date specified therein as the date as of which the list is to be compiled.
The record of shareholders shall also be open to inspection or copying by any shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate at any time during usual business hours upon written demand on the corporation, for a purpose reasonably related to the holder's interests as a shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate.
Any inspection and copying under this Section 7.1 may be made in person or by an agent or attorney of the shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate making the demand.
 
7.2
MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF BYLAWS
The corporation shall keep at its principal executive office or, if its principal executive office is not in the State of California, at its principal business office in California, the original or a copy of these Bylaws as amended to date, which shall be open to inspection by the shareholders at all reasonable times during business hours. If the principal executive office is outside the State of California and the corporation has no principal business office in such state, then it shall, upon the written request of any shareholder, furnish to such shareholder a copy of these Bylaws as amended to date.
7.3
MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF OTHER CORPORATE RECORDS
The accounting books and records and the minutes of proceedings of the shareholders and the Board of Directors, and committees of the Board of Directors, shall be kept at such place or places as are designated by the Board of Directors or, in absence of such designation, at the principal executive office of the corporation. The minutes and other books and records shall be kept either in written form or in another form capable of being converted into clearly legible tangible form or in any combination of the foregoing.
The minutes and accounting books and records shall be open to inspection upon the written demand on the corporation of any shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate at any reasonable time during usual business hours, for a purpose reasonably related to such holder's interests as a shareholder or as a holder of a voting trust certificate. Such inspection by a shareholder or a holder of a voting trust certificate may be made in person or by an agent or attorney and the right of inspection includes the right to copy and make extracts. Such rights of inspections shall extend to the records of each subsidiary corporation of the corporation.
7.4
INSPECTION BY DIRECTORS
Every director shall have the absolute right at any reasonable time to inspect and copy all books, records and documents of every kind and to inspect the physical properties of the corporation and each of its subsidiary corporations, domestic or foreign. Such inspection by a director may be made in person or by an agent or attorney and the right of inspection includes the right to copy and make extracts.
7.5
ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS; WAIVER
The Board of Directors shall cause an annual report to be sent to the shareholders not later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the close of the fiscal year adopted by the corporation in such manner and in such form as permitted by applicable law. The annual report shall contain a balance sheet as of the end of the fiscal year and an income statement and statement of changes in financial position for the fiscal year, accompanied by any report thereon of independent accountants or, if there is no such report, the certificate of an authorized officer of the corporation that the statements were prepared without audit from the books and records of the corporation.
The foregoing requirement of an annual report shall be waived so long as the shares of the corporation are held by fewer than one hundred (100) holders of record.
7.6
REPRESENTATION OF SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS
The Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of this corporation, or any other person authorized by the Board of Directors or the President or a Vice President, is authorized to vote, represent, and exercise on behalf of this corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name of this corporation. The authority herein granted may be exercised either by such person directly or by any other person authorized to do so by proxy or by power of attorney duly executed by such person having the authority.
 
8.1
RECORD DATE FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN NOTICE AND VOTING
For purposes of determining the shareholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other lawful action (other than with respect to notice or voting at a shareholders' meeting or action by shareholders by written consent without a meeting), the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) days prior to any such action. Only shareholders of record at the close of business on the record date are entitled to receive the dividend, distribution or allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date, except as otherwise provided for in the Articles of Incorporation or the Code.
If the Board of Directors does not so fix a record date, then the record date for determining shareholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto or the sixtieth (60th) day prior to the date of that action, whichever is later.
8.2
CHECKS; DRAFTS; EVIDENCE OF INDEBTEDNESS
From time to time, the Board of Directors shall determine by resolution which person or persons may sign or endorse all checks, drafts, other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness that are issued in the name of or payable to the corporation, and only the persons so authorized shall sign or endorse those instruments.
8.3
CORPORATE CONTRACTS AND INSTRUMENTS; HOW EXECUTED
The Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, may authorize any officer or officers, or agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of or on behalf of the corporation; such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Unless so authorized or ratified by the Board of Directors or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.
8.4
CERTIFICATE FOR SHARES
Subject to the provisions of the succeeding paragraph, every holder of shares in the corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate or certificates for shares of the corporation issued to such holder when any such shares are fully paid. The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of certificates for shares partly paid provided that these certificates shall state the total amount of the consideration to be paid for them and the amount actually paid. All certificates shall be signed in the name of the corporation by the Chairman of the Board or the Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or a Vice President and by the Chief Financial Officer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the corporation, certifying the number of shares and the class and series of shares owned by the shareholder. Any or all of the signatures on the certificates may be by facsimile.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the corporation may adopt a system of issuance, recordation and transfer of its shares by electronic or other means not involving any issuance of certificates in accordance with Section 416 of the Code, as amended or replaced from time to time. Such system shall not become effective as to issued and outstanding certificated shares until certificates therefor have been surrendered to the corporation.
In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed on, a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if that person were an officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
 
8.5
LOST CERTIFICATES
Except as provided in this Section 8.5, no new certificate or certificates or uncertificated shares shall be issued to replace a previously issued certificate unless the latter is surrendered to the corporation or its transfer agent or registrar and cancelled at the same time. The Board of Directors may, in case any share certificate or certificate for any other security is alleged to be lost, stolen or destroyed (as evidenced by a written affidavit or affirmation of such fact), authorize the issuance of replacement certificates or uncertificated shares on such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors may deem advisable. The Board of Directors may require indemnification of the corporation secured by a bond or other adequate security sufficient to protect the corporation against any claim that may be made against it, including any expense or liability, on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of the certificate or the issuance of the replacement certificate.
8.6
CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS
Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction and definitions in the Code shall govern the construction of these Bylaws. Without limiting the generality of the provision, the singular number includes the plural, the plural number includes the singular, and the term "person" includes both a corporation and a natural person.
9.1
AMENDMENT BY SHAREHOLDERS
New bylaws may be adopted or these Bylaws may be amended or repealed by the vote or written consent of holders of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote, after giving effect to super voting rights (e.g., in excess of one vote per share) of any outstanding class of securities of the corporation; provided, however, that if the Articles of Incorporation of the corporation set forth the number of authorized directors of the corporation, then the authorized number of directors may be changed only by an amendment of the Articles of Incorporation.
9.2
AMENDMENT BY DIRECTORS
Subject to the rights of the shareholders as provided by Section 9.1 of these Bylaws, bylaws, other than a bylaw or an amendment of a bylaw changing the authorized number of directors (except to fix the authorized number of directors pursuant to a bylaw providing for a variable number of directors, within the limits provided in such bylaw), may be adopted, amended or repealed by the Board of Directors.
9.3
RECORD OF AMENDMENTS
Whenever an amendment or new bylaw is adopted, it shall be copied in the book of minutes with the original Bylaws. If any bylaw is repealed, the face of repeal, with the date of the meeting at which the repeal was enacted or written consent was filed, shall be stated in said book of minutes.
Reference in the Bylaws to any provision of the Code shall be deemed to include all amendments thereof.
 

Exhibit 4.1
Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 16, 2012 between Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation (the "") and Wilmington Trust, National Association ("").
Company
Trustee
A. The Company and the Trustee executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2010 (the ""), to provide for the issuance by the Company from time to time of debentures, notes or other debt instruments evidencing its indebtedness. The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Third Supplemental Indenture, is herein referred to as the ""
Base Indenture
Indenture.
B. The Company and the Trustee entered into the First Supplemental Indenture, dated November 1, 2010, to provide for the issuance of the Company's 1.500% Senior Notes due 2013 and 2.375% Senior Notes due 2015, and the Company and the Trustee entered into the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated November 9, 2011, to provide for the issuance of the Company's 2.700% Senior Notes due 2018.
C. The Company has authorized the issuance of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.500% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "").
Notes
D. The Company desires to enter into this Third Supplemental Indenture pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture to establish the terms of the Notes in accordance with Section 2.2 of the Base Indenture and to establish the form of the Notes in accordance with Sections 2.2.11 and 2.3 of the Base Indenture.
E. All things necessary to make this Third Supplemental Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement according to its terms have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing premises, the Company and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective Holders from time to time of the Notes as follows:
Section 1.1. .
Terms of the Notes
The following terms relate to the Notes:
(1) The Notes shall constitute a separate Series of Securities under the Base Indenture having the title "2.500% Senior Notes due 2022."
(2) The Notes shall be issued at a price of one hundred percent (100%) of the principal amount thereof, other than any offering discounts pursuant to the initial offering and resale of the Notes.
(3) The aggregate principal amount of the Notes (the "") that may be initially authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be $500,000,000. The
Initial Notes
Company may from time to time, without the consent of the Holders of Notes, issue additional Notes (in any such case "") having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Initial Notes. Any Additional Notes and the Initial Notes shall constitute a single Series under the Indenture and all references to the Notes shall include the Initial Notes and any Additional Notes, unless the context otherwise requires. The aggregate principal amount of the Additional Notes shall be unlimited.
Additional Notes
(4) The entire outstanding principal of the Notes shall be payable on August 15, 2022.
(5) The rate at which the Notes shall bear interest shall be 2.500% per year plus Additional Interest, if any, payable pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement. The date from which interest shall accrue on the Notes shall be August 16, 2012, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for. The Interest Payment Dates for the Notes shall be February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning February 15, 2013. Interest shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date to the holders of record at the close of business on the February 1 and August 1 prior to each Interest Payment Date (in connection with the Notes, a ""). The basis upon which interest shall be calculated shall be that of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
regular record date
(6) The Notes shall be issuable in whole in the form of one or more registered Restricted Global Securities, and the Depositary for such Restricted Global Securities shall be The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York (""). The Notes shall be substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, the terms of which are herein incorporated by reference. The Notes shall be denominated in Dollars and shall be issuable in minimum denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
DTC
(7) The Notes may be redeemed at the option of the Company prior to the maturity date, as provided in Section 1.5.
(8) The Notes will not have the benefit of any sinking fund.
(9) Except as provided herein, the Holders of the Notes shall have no special rights in addition to those provided in the Base Indenture upon the occurrence of any particular events.
(10) The Notes will be senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equal in right of payment to all of the Company's other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness and among themselves.
(11) The Notes are not convertible into shares of common stock or other securities of the Company.
(12) The restrictive covenants set forth in Section 1.6 shall be applicable to the Notes.
 
Section 1.2. .
Additional Defined Terms
As used herein, the following defined terms shall have the following meanings with respect to the Notes only:
"" means, one or more Global Securities, bearing the Private Placement Legend, that will be issued in an aggregate amount of denominations equal in total to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes sold in global form in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Security
"" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
"" means, as of the date of determination, the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries incurred after the date of this Third Supplemental Indenture and secured by Liens not permitted by Section 1.6.1.1.
Aggregate Debt
"" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Security, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange at the relevant time.
Applicable Procedures
"" means, in connection with a sale and lease-back transaction, the lesser of:
Attributable Liens
(1) the fair market value of the assets subject to such transaction (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof); and
(2) the present value (discounted at a rate per annum equal to the average interest borne by all outstanding debt securities issued under this Indenture (which may include debt securities in addition to the Notes) determined on a weighted average basis and compounded semi-annually) of the obligations of the lessee for rental payments during the term of the related lease.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.7.1.
Bankruptcy Law
"" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Broker-Dealer
"" means any Indebtedness represented by a lease obligation of a person incurred with respect to real property or equipment acquired or leased by such person and used in its business that is required to be recorded as a capital lease in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease
"" means the occurrence of any one or more of the following events: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Company or one of the Company's Subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" of related persons (as such terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the
Change of Control
 
Exchange Act) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of a majority of the total voting power of the Company's Voting Stock; , , that a person shall not be deemed beneficial owner of, or to own beneficially, (A) any securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such person or any of such person's affiliates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange thereunder, or (B) any securities if such beneficial ownership (i) arises solely as a result of a revocable proxy delivered in response to a proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to the applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, and (ii) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D (or any successor schedule) under the Exchange Act; (3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; (4) the first day on which the majority of the members of the Board of Directors cease to be Continuing Directors; or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution.
provided
however
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of a holding company and (ii) (A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of a majority of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6.3(a).
Change of Control Offer
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6.3(a).
Change of Control Payment
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.6.3(a).
Change of Control Payment Date
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means Clearstream Bank, S.A., or its successors.
Clearstream
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (2) if the
Comparable Treasury Price
 
Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all of these quotations or (3) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
"" means, as of any date on which the Company effects a transaction requiring such Consolidated Net Tangible Assets to be measured hereunder, the aggregate amount of assets (less applicable reserves) after deducting therefrom: (a) all current liabilities, except for current maturities of long-term debt and obligations under Capital Leases; and (b) intangible assets, to the extent included in said aggregate amount of assets, as of the end of the Company's most recently completed accounting period for which financial statements are then available and computed in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who: (1) was a member of the Board of Directors on the date of this Third Supplemental Indenture; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to the Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of the Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment.
Continuing Director
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.7.1.
Custodian
"" means a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 1.3.
Definitive Security
"" means the 40-day restricted period as defined in Rule 903(b)(3) under the Securities Act.
Distribution Compliance Period
"" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., or its successor.
Euroclear
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.7.1
Event of Default
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Securities
"" of any specified person means, without duplication, any indebtedness in respect of borrowed money or that is evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or similar instruments or letters of credit (or reimbursement agreements with respect thereto (other than obligations with respect to letters of credit securing obligations entered into in the ordinary course of business of such person to the extent such letters of credit are not drawn upon or, if and to the extent drawn upon, such drawing is reimbursed no later than the fifth business day following receipt by such person of a demand for reimbursement following payment on the letter of credit)) or representing the balance deferred and unpaid of the purchase price of any Property
Indebtedness
 
(including pursuant to Capital Leases), except any such balance that constitutes an accrued expense or trade payable, if and to the extent any of the foregoing indebtedness would appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of such person prepared in accordance with GAAP (but does not include contingent liabilities which appear only in a footnote to a balance sheet). In addition, the term "" includes all of the following items, whether or not any such items would appear as a liability on a balance sheet of the specified person in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
(1) all Indebtedness of others secured by a lien on any asset of the specified person (whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by the specified person); and
(2) to the extent not otherwise included, any guarantee by the specified person of Indebtedness of any other person.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "" excludes any indebtedness of the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries to the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company.
Indebtedness
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means any entity that, with respect to DTC, clears through or maintains a direct or indirect custodial relationship with a Participant.
Indirect Participant
"" means the Initial Purchasers set forth on Schedule A to the Purchase Agreement, dated August 13, 2012, among the Company and such Initial Purchasers relating to the initial purchase and sale of the Notes.
Initial Purchasers
"" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, who is not also a QIB.
Institutional Accredited Investor
"" means the stated due date of an installment of interest on the Notes.
Interest Payment Date
"" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P), or, if applicable, the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any Substitute Rating Agency.
Investment Grade
"" means any lien, security interest, charge or encumbrance of any kind (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, and any agreement to give any security interest).
Lien
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
Moody's
 
"" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
Participant
"" means, with respect to any person:
Permitted Liens
(1) Liens on Principal Property existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, or Liens thereon to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price thereof, or Liens on Principal Property to secure any Indebtedness incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 180 days after, the latest of the acquisition thereof or, in the case of property, the completion of construction, the completion of improvements or the commencement of substantial commercial operation of such property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof, such construction or the making of such improvements;
(2) Liens on the Principal Property of a person existing at the time such person is merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company or otherwise acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company or at the time of sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of such person as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, that such Lien was not incurred in anticipation of such merger or consolidation or sale, lease or other disposition and does not extend to any Property other than that of the person merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company or such Property sold, leased or disposed;
provided
(3) Liens in favor of the United States of America or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), or any department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any Indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of constructing or improving Principal Property subject to such Liens;
(4) Liens in the Company's favor or in favor of any of the Company's Subsidiaries; or
(5) Liens consisting of deposits of Principal Property to secure (or in lieu of) safety, appeal or customs bonds in proceedings to which the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries is a party in the ordinary course of its business.
"" means the land, improvements, buildings, fixtures and equipment (including any leasehold interest therein) constituting the principal corporate office and any manufacturing, assembly or test plant, distribution center, research facility, design facility, administrative facility, or sales and marketing facility (in each case, whether now owned or hereafter acquired) which is owned or leased by the Company or any of the Company's Subsidiaries, unless such office, plant, center or facility has a value of less than $5.0 million or unless the Board of Directors has determined in good faith that such office, plant, center or facility is not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and the Company's Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Principal Property
 
"" means the legend set forth in Section 1.4.1 to be placed on all Restricted Securities issued under this Indenture, except where specifically stated otherwise by the provisions of this Indenture.
Private Placement Legend
"" means any property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, or tangible or intangible, including shares of capital stock.
Property
"" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
"" means each of Moody's and S&P, and if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a Substitute Rating Agency in lieu thereof.
Rating Agency
"" means the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by both Rating Agencies on any day during the period (the "") commencing on the earlier of (a) the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or (b) the public announcement by the Company of the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control, and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible rating downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies). If either Rating Agency is not providing a rating of the Notes on any day during the Trigger Period for any reason, the rating of such Rating Agency shall be deemed to have ceased to be rated Investment Grade during the Trigger Period.
Rating Event
Trigger Period
"" means, when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date
"" means, when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Price
"" means (a) each of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC (or their respective affiliates that are primary U.S. Government securities dealers) and their respective successors; , , that if either of the foregoing ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer, the Company will substitute another primary U.S. Government securities dealer and (b) two other nationally recognized investment banking firms selected by the Company that are primary U.S. Government securities dealers.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided
however
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and ask prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
 
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 16, 2012, by and among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof, relating to the Notes, as such agreement may be amended or supplemented from time to time and, with respect to any debt securities (other than the Notes) issued under this Indenture as part of the same Series as the Notes, one or more registration rights agreements by and among the Company and the other parties thereto, as such agreement(s) may be amended or supplemented from time to time, relating to rights given by the Company to the purchasers of such additional debt securities to register such additional debt securities under the Securities Act.
Registration Rights Agreement
"" means one or more Global Securities, bearing the Private Placement Legend, that will be issued in an aggregate amount of denominations equal in total to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes initially sold in global form in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
Regulation S Global Security
"" means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date for such redemption; , , that if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
provided
however
"" means one or more Definitive Securities bearing the Private Placement Legend issued under this Indenture.
Restricted Definitive Security
"" means one or more Global Securities bearing the Private Placement Legend, issued under this Indenture.
Restricted Global Security
"" means a Note, unless or until it (i) has been effectively registered under the Securities Act and disposed of in accordance with a registration statement or (ii) is eligible to be resold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any similar provision then in force).
Restricted Security
"" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act, as it may be amended from time to time, and any successor provision thereto.
Rule 144A
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Shelf Registration Statement
"" means a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors or a committee thereof) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
Substitute Rating Agency
 
"" means, for any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated maturity (on a day count basis), computed as of the third Business Day immediately preceding that Redemption Date, of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Business Day.
Treasury Rate
"" means one or more Definitive Securities representing Notes that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend, issued under this Indenture.
Unrestricted Definitive Security
"" means one or more permanent Global Securities representing Notes that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend, issued under this Indenture.
Unrestricted Global Security
"" of any specified person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
Section 1.3. .
Transfer and Exchange
This Section 1.3 shall replace Section 2.7 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
1.3.1. . The Company shall keep, or cause to be kept, at its office or agency designated for such purpose as provided in Section 2.4 of the Base Indenture, a register or registers in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall register the Notes and the transfers of Notes as provided in Article II of the Base Indenture and which at all reasonable times shall be open for inspection by the Trustee.
Registration of Transfer and Exchange
To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute a new Note or Notes for a like aggregate principal amount and in authorized denominations and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver such Note or Notes upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Notes. The Trustee shall not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
All Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same indebtedness, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. Prior to such due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Note, the Trustee, the Company, any Paying Agent and the Registrar may deem and treat the person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, the Company, the Paying Agent or the Registrar shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
All certifications, certificates and opinions of counsel required to be submitted to the Trustee pursuant to this Section 1.3 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile, pdf or other electronic means.
1.3.2. . No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable upon exchanges pursuant to Sections 2.11, 3.6 or 9.6 of the Base Indenture).
Service Charge
1.3.3. . A Global Security may not be exchanged for Notes registered in the names of Holders other than the Depository except as provided in Section 2.14.2 of the Base Indenture. In any such event, the Company will execute the Definitive Securities in authorized denominations and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security and, subject to this Section 1.3, the Trustee, upon receipt of an Officers' Certificate evidencing such determination by the Company, if applicable, will authenticate and deliver such Definitive Securities in exchange for such Global Security. Upon the exchange of the Global Security for such Definitive Securities, the Global Security shall be canceled by the Trustee. Such Definitive Securities shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its Participants or Indirect Participants or otherwise, shall in writing instruct the Trustee.
Transfer and Exchange of Global Securities
Except as provided in Sections 2.8 and 2.11 of the Base Indenture, a Global Security may not be exchanged for another Note other than as provided in this Section 1.3.3; that, beneficial interests in a Global Security may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Sections 1.3.4, 1.3.5 or 1.3.8.
provided
1.3.4. . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Securities shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Securities also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (a) or (b) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Securities
(a) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Security may be transferred to persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Security in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; , , that prior to the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Security may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Security may be transferred to persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security. Subject to Section 1.3.4(d), no written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 1.3.4(a).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Security
provided
however
 
(b) . Subject to Section 1.3.3, in connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 1.3.4(a) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar, as applicable, either:
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Securities
(i) both (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the relevant Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Security in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the relevant Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase; or
(ii) both (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the relevant Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Security in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Registrar containing information regarding the person in whose name such Definitive Security shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (ii)(1) above.
Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 1.3.8, the requirements of this Section 1.3.4(b)(ii) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Registrar of the instructions delivered by the holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Securities contained in this Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Security or Notes pursuant to Section 1.3.9.
(c) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security may be transferred to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Security if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 1.3.4(b) and the Registrar receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Security
(i) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Security, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
(ii) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
 
(d) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or transferred to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 1.3.4(b) and:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Security
(i) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and Section 1.3.8, and the holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies that it is not (1) a Broker-Dealer, (2) a person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Securities or (3) a person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company;
(ii) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(iii) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(iv) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or (2) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (iv), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
If any such transfer is effected pursuant to subparagraph (ii) or (iv) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication of such Unrestricted Global Securities in accordance with Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests so transferred pursuant to subparagraph (ii) or (iv) above.
 
Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Security cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security.
1.3.5. . Subject to Section 1.3.3,
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Securities
(a) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Security or to transfer such beneficial interest to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Security, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities to Restricted Definitive Securities
(i) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
(ii) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
(iii) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a person who is not a U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
(iv) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
(v) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (ii) through (iv) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3)(d) thereof, if applicable;
(vi) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
(vii) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof,
 
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Security to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 1.3.9, and the Company shall execute a Restricted Definitive Security in the appropriate principal amount and, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Restricted Definitive Security pursuant to Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the person designated in the instructions such Restricted Definitive Security. Any Restricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security pursuant to this Section 1.3.5 shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Restricted Definitive Securities to the persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Restricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security pursuant to this Section 1.3.5(a) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
(b) . A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Security or may transfer such beneficial interest to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security only if:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
(i) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and Section 1.3.8, and the holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies that it is not (1) a Broker-Dealer, (2) a person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Securities or (3) a person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company;
(ii) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(iii) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(iv) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or (2) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (iv), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of
 
Counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
(c) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Security or to transfer such beneficial interest to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 1.3.4(b), the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Unrestricted Global Security to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 1.3.9, and the Company shall execute an Unrestricted Definitive Security in the appropriate principal amount and, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Unrestricted Definitive Security in accordance with Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the person designated in the instructions such Unrestricted Definitive Security. Any Unrestricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 1.3.5(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from or through the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Unrestricted Definitive Securities to the persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Unrestricted Definitive Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 1.3.5(c) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
1.3.6. .
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Beneficial Interests
(a) . If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Security proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Securities to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security, then, upon receipt by the Trustee of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities
(i) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Security proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
(ii) if such Restricted Definitive Security is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
(iii) if such Restricted Definitive Security is being transferred to a person who is not a U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
 
(iv) if such Restricted Definitive Security is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
(v) if such Restricted Definitive Security is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (ii) through (iv) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3)(d) thereof, if applicable;
(vi) if such Restricted Definitive Security is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
(vii) if such Restricted Definitive Security is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof,
the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Security , increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (i) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Security and, in the case of clause (ii) above, the 144A Global Security and, in the case of clause (iii) above, the Regulation S Global Security as applicable.
(b) . A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Security may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or transfer such Restricted Definitive Security to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security only if:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities
(i) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and Section 1.3.8, and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies that it is not (1) a Broker-Dealer, (2) a person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Securities or (3) a person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company;
(ii) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(iii) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(iv) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities proposes to exchange such Notes for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or (2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities proposes to transfer such Notes to a person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (iv), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon satisfaction of the conditions of this Section 1.3.6(b), the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Definitive Securities so transferred or exchanged and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Security.
(c) . A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Security may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or transfer such Definitive Securities to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security at any time. Upon receipt of a written request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Security and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Securities. If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Security to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to Sections 1.3.6(b)(ii), 1.3.6(b)(iv) or 1.3.6(c) at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication of such Unrestricted Global Security in accordance with Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Securities so transferred.
Unrestricted Definitive Securities to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities
1.3.7. . Upon written request by a Holder of Definitive Securities and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 1.3.7, the Trustee shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Securities pursuant to the provisions of Section 1.3.1. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Securities duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition to the requirements set forth in Section 1.3.1, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents, and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 1.3.7.
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Securities for Definitive Securities
 
(a) . Any Restricted Definitive Security may be transferred to and registered in the name of persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Security if the Registrar receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Restricted Definitive Securities
(i) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 144A, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
(ii) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and
(iii) if the transfer will be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
(b) . Any Restricted Definitive Security may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Security or transferred to a person or persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security if:
Restricted Definitive Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
(i) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and Section 1.3.8, and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies that it is not (1) a Broker-Dealer, (2) a person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Securities or (3) a person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company;
(ii) any such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
(iii) any such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(iv) the Registrar receives the following: (1) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities proposes to exchange such Notes for an Unrestricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or (2) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Securities proposes to transfer such Notes to a person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof; and, in each such case set forth in this
 
subparagraph (iv), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form, and from legal counsel, reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Company to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
(c) . A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Securities may transfer such Notes to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Security in accordance with Section 1.3.1. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Securities pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Securities to Unrestricted Definitive Securities
1.3.8. . Upon the consummation of the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication of Unrestricted Global Securities in accordance with Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture and an Opinion of Counsel for the Company as to certain matters discussed in this Section 1.3.8, the Trustee shall authenticate (i) one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the sum of (A) the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities tendered for acceptance by persons that certify that (1) they are not Broker-Dealers, (2) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Securities and (3) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company, and accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer and (B) the principal amount of Restricted Definitive Securities exchanged or transferred for beneficial interests in Unrestricted Global Securities in connection with the Exchange Offer pursuant to Section 1.3.6(b) by persons that certify that (1) they are not Broker-Dealers, (2) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Securities and (3) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company and (ii) Unrestricted Definitive Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Securities accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer (other than Restricted Definitive Securities described in clause (i)(B) immediately above) and tendered for acceptance by persons that certify that (1) they are not Broker-Dealers, (2) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Securities and (3) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company. Concurrently with the issuance of such Notes, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Securities to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Unrestricted Definitive Securities in accordance with Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the persons designated by the Holders of Definitive Securities so accepted Unrestricted Definitive Securities in the appropriate principal amount. The Opinion of Counsel for the Company referenced above shall state that the Exchange Securities have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Company and, when executed, issued and authenticated in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and delivered in exchange for Securities in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and the Exchange Offer, will be legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to customary exceptions.
Exchange Offer
 
1.3.9. . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Security have been exchanged for Definitive Securities or a particular Global Security has been redeemed, repurchased or cancelled in whole and not in part, each such Global Security shall be returned to or retained and cancelled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.12 of the Base Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Security is exchanged for or transferred to a person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security or for Definitive Securities, the principal amount of Notes represented by such Global Security shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement may be made on such Global Security by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Security , such other Global Security shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement may be made on such Global Security by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Securities
1.3.10. . Neither the Company nor the Registrar shall be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of, or exchange Notes for the period beginning at the opening of business fifteen days immediately preceding the mailing of a notice of redemption of Notes selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (b) to register the transfer of or exchange Notes selected, called or being called for redemption as a whole or the portion being redeemed of any such Notes selected, called or being called for redemption in part.
No Exchange or Transfer
Section 1.4. .
Legend
This Section 1.4 shall replace Section 2.14.3 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
1.4.1. Each Restricted Security (and all Restricted Securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear a Private Placement Legend in substantially the following form:
"THIS NOTE HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT") AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER (I) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT AND ANY ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT IS ACTING IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) AND THAT IT EXERCISES SOLE INVESTMENT DISCRETION WITH RESPECT TO EACH SUCH ACCOUNT; OR (B) IT IS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES AND IS NOT A U.S. PERSON (WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) AND (II) AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE ISSUER THAT IT WILL NOT OFFER, SELL, PLEDGE OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS NOTE OR ANY BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES
 
AND ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER OR ONE OF ITS AFFILIATES, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BECOME EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) TO A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (D) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION TO A NON-U.S. PERSON IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND (III) AGREES THAT IT WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT ACQUIRER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER OF THIS NOTE OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN CLAUSE (II) ABOVE. PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (II)(E) ABOVE, THE ISSUER RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY RULE 144 EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT."
(a) Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Security or Definitive Security issued pursuant to Sections 1.3.4(d), 1.3.5(b), 1.3.5(c), 1.3.6(b), 1.3.6(c), 1.3.7(b), 1.3.7(c) or 1.3.8 (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Section 1.5. .
Optional Redemption
1.5.1. The provisions of Article III of the Base Indenture, as amended by the provisions of this Third Supplemental Indenture, shall apply to the Notes.
1.5.2. At the Company's option, the Notes may be redeemed or purchased, in each case, in whole or in part at any time or from time to time prior to May 15, 2022 at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
(a) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
(b) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of the Notes to be redeemed, discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 15 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
On and after May 15, 2022, at the Company's option, the Notes may be redeemed or purchased, in each case, in whole or in part at any time or from time to time at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
 
1.5.3. Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date for the Notes, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. On or before the Redemption Date for the Notes, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or a Paying Agent, funds sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of the Notes to be redeemed on the Redemption Date, and (except if the date fixed for redemption shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest, if any. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes shall be redeemed in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Base Indenture.
1.5.4. Notice of any redemption shall be sent by first class mail at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each holder of the Notes to be redeemed.
1.5.5. At any time, the Company may repurchase Notes in the open market and may hold such Notes or surrender such Notes to the Trustee for cancellation pursuant to Section 2.12 of the Base Indenture.
Section 1.6. .
Additional Covenants
The following additional covenants shall apply with respect to the Notes so long as any of the Notes remain outstanding:
1.6.1. .
Limitation on Liens
1.6.1.1. The Company will not (nor will the Company permit any of its Subsidiaries to) create or incur any Lien on any Principal Property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or upon any income or profits therefrom, in order to secure any of the Company's Indebtedness or that of any of its Subsidiaries, without effectively providing that the Notes shall be equally and ratably secured until such time as such Indebtedness is no longer secured by such Lien, except:
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.6.1.2. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and its Subsidiaries may, without securing the Notes, create or incur Liens which would otherwise be subject to the restrictions set forth in the preceding paragraph, if after giving effect thereto, Aggregate Debt does not exceed the greater of (i) 15% of the Company's Consolidated Net Tangible Assets calculated as of the date of the creation or incurrence of the Lien or (ii) $300.0 million.
1.6.2. .
Limitation on Sale and Lease-Back Transactions
The Company will not (nor will the Company permit any Subsidiary of the Company to) enter into any sale and lease-back transaction for the sale and leasing back of any Principal Property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, unless:
(a) such transaction was entered into prior to the issue date of the Notes;
(b) such transaction involves a lease for less than three years;
(c) such transaction involves the sale and leasing back to the Company of any Principal Property by one of its Subsidiaries or the sale and leasing back to one of the Company's Subsidiaries by another of the Company's Subsidiaries;
(d) the Company or such Subsidiary would be entitled to incur Indebtedness secured by a mortgage on the Principal Property to be leased in an amount at least equal to the Attributable Liens with respect to such sale and lease-back transaction without equally and ratably securing the Notes pursuant to Section 1.6.1 above; or
(e) the Company applies an amount equal to the fair market value of the Principal Property sold, within 180 days of such sale and lease-back transaction, to any of (or a combination of) (a) the prepayment or retirement of the Notes, (b) the prepayment or retirement of Indebtedness for borrowed money of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company (other than Indebtedness that is subordinated to the Notes) or (c) the purchase, construction, development, expansion or improvement of Principal Property.
1.6.3. .
Purchase of Notes upon a Change of Control Triggering Event
(a) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes as described in Section 1.5, each Holder of Notes will have the right to require that the Company purchase all or a portion (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the ""), at a
Change of Control Offer
 
purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the date of purchase (the ""), subject to the rights of Holders of Notes on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date.
Change of Control Payment
Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, the Company must send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder of Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer. Such notice shall state, among other things, the purchase date, which must be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed or, if the notice is mailed prior to the Change of Control, no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date on which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, other than as may be required by law (the ""). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date. Holders of Definitive Securities electing to have a Note purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender the Note, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Note completed, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice, or Holders of Global Securities must transfer their Notes to the Paying Agent by book-entry transfer pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the Paying Agent, prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Change of Control Payment Date
(b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
(i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate Principal Amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased by the Company.
(c) The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer if a third party makes such an offer in the manner and at the times required and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for such an offer made by the Company, and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Company will not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under this Indenture, other than a Default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
 
(d) The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the purchase of Notes pursuant to a Change of Control Offer. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of this Section 1.6.3, the Company will comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 1.6.3 by virtue of any such conflict.
Section 1.7.
Defaults and Remedies.
1.7.1. .
Events of Default
This Section 1.7.1 shall replace Section 6.1 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
Each of the following is an "" with respect to the Notes:
Event of Default
(a) default in the payment of any interest, including any Additional Interest, on the Notes when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of that default for a period of 30 days (unless the entire amount of such payment is deposited by the Company with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent prior to the expiration of such 30-day period);
(b) default in the payment of principal of the Notes when due and payable;
(c) default in the performance or breach of any other covenant or warranty by the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty that has been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of a Series of debt securities other than the Notes), which default continues uncured for a period of 60 days after the Company receives, by registered or certified mail, written notice from the Trustee or the Company and the Trustee receive, by registered or certified mail, written notice from the holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes as provided in this Indenture;
(d) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
(i) commences a voluntary case;
(ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case;
(iii) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property;
(iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or
 
(v) generally is unable to pay its debts as the same become due; or
(e) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
(i) is for relief against the Company in an involuntary case;
(ii) appoints a Custodian of the Company or for all or substantially all of its property; or
(iii) orders the liquidation of the Company,
and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days.
The term "" means title 11, U.S. Code or any similar Federal or State law for the relief of debtors. The term "" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Bankruptcy Law
Custodian
No Event of Default with respect to the Notes (other than an Event of Default referred to in Section 1.7.1(d) or (e)) necessarily constitutes an Event of Default with respect to any other Series of debt securities.
1.7.2. .
Acceleration of Maturity; Recession and Annulment
This Section 1.7.2 shall replace Section 6.2 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes occurs and is continuing (other than an Event of Default referred to in Section 1.7.1(d) or 1.7.1(e)), then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may declare the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all Notes to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders), and upon such declaration such principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 1.7.1(d) or 1.7.1(e) shall occur, the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all outstanding Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of outstanding Notes.
ipso facto
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to the Notes has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as provided in this Indenture, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such a declaration and its consequences if all Events of Default with respect to the Notes, other than the non-payment of accelerated principal and interest, if any, with respect to the Notes, have been cured or waived as provided in this Indenture.
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
1.7.3. .
Limitation on Suits
This Section 1.7.3 shall replace Section 6.7 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
No Holder of any Notes shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
(i) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Notes;
(ii) the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee under the Indenture;
(iii) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity or security satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request;
(iv) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity or security has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
(v) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes;
it being understood and intended that no one or more Holders shall have any right in any manner whatsoever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all Holders.
Section 2.1. .
Definitions
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Third Supplemental Indenture shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Base Indenture.
Section 2.2. .
Confirmation of Indenture
The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Third Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture, this Third Supplemental Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
 
Section 2.3.
Governing Law.
THIS INDENTURE AND THE NOTES, INCLUDING ANY CLAIM OR CONTROVERSY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE INDENTURE OR THE NOTES, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD RESULT IN THE APPLICATION OF ANY LAW OTHER THAN THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Section 2.4. .
Severability
In case any provision in this Third Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 2.5. .
Counterparts
This Third Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Section 2.6. .
No Benefit
Nothing in this Third Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any person other than the parties hereto and their successors or assigns, and the Holders of the Notes, any benefit or legal or equitable rights, remedy or claim under this Third Supplemental Indenture or the Base Indenture.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Third Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed all as of the day and year first above written.
 
[Insert the Private Placement Legend and/or the Global Security legend, as applicable]
 
CUSIP No. [        ]
1
promises to pay to                     or registered assigns, the principal sum of [            ] Dollars on August 15, 2022.
Interest Payment Dates: February 15 and August 15
Record Dates: February 1 and August 1
Each holder of this Note (as defined below), by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and of the Indenture described herein, and authorizes and directs the Trustee described herein on such holder's behalf to be bound by such provisions. Each holder of this Note hereby waives all notice of the acceptance of the provisions contained herein and in the Indenture and waives reliance by such holder upon said provisions.
This Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been manually signed by or on behalf of the Trustee. The provisions of this Note are continued on the reverse side hereof, and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be signed in accordance with Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture.
Date: August 16, 2012
 
 
This is one of the 2.500% Senior Notes due 2022 issued by Broadcom Corporation of the Series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Date: August 16, 2012
 
 
This note is one of a duly authorized Series of debt securities of Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation (the ""), issued or to be issued in one or more Series under and pursuant to an Indenture for the Company's debentures, notes or other debt instruments evidencing its Indebtedness, dated as of November 1, 2010 (the ""), duly executed and delivered by and among the Company and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as successor by merger to Wilmington Trust FSB (the ""), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 16, 2012 (the ""), by and between the Company and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by the Third Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the "." By the terms of the Base Indenture, the debt securities issuable thereunder are issuable in Series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This note is one of the Series designated on the face hereof (individually, a "," and collectively, the ""), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Notes (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the Base Indenture or the Third Supplemental Indenture, as applicable.
Company
Base Indenture
Trustee
Third Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Note
Notes
Holders
1. . The rate at which the Notes shall bear interest shall be 2.500% per year plus Additional Interest, if any, payable pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement. The date from which interest shall accrue on the Notes shall be August 16, 2012, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for. The Interest Payment Dates for the Notes shall be February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning February 15, 2013. Interest shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date to the holders of record at the close of business on the February 1 and August 1 prior to each Interest Payment Date. The basis upon which interest shall be calculated shall be that of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
2. . The Company will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest), if any, to the persons in whose name such Notes are registered at the close of business on the regular record date referred to on the facing page of this Note for such interest installment. In the event that the Notes or a portion thereof are called for redemption and the Redemption Date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Notes will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Notes as provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on the Notes shall be payable in Dollars, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the Indenture.
Method of Payment
3. . Initially, Wilmington Trust, National Association, the Trustee, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder.
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
4. . The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ("") as in effect on the date, if any, on which the Indenture is qualified thereunder. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and TIA (if qualified thereunder) for a statement of such terms. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and constitute the Series designated on the face hereof as the "2.500% Senior Notes due 2022", initially limited to $500,000,000 in aggregate principal amount. The Company will furnish to any Holders upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture and the Third Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to: Broadcom Corporation, 5300 California Avenue, Irvine, CA 92617 Attention: General Counsel.
Indenture
TIA
5. . At the Company's option, the Notes may be redeemed or purchased, in each case, in whole or in part at any time or from time to time prior to the Stated Maturity of the Notes, as provided in Section 1.5 of the Third Supplemental Indenture.
Optional Redemption
The Notes will not have the benefit of any sinking fund.
6. . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem this Note as described in Section 1.5 of the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Holder of this Note will have the right to require that the Company purchase all or a portion (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Note pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the date of purchase, subject to the rights of a Holder of this Note on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date. Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, the Company must send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder of Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, in accordance with Section 1.6.3 of the Third Supplemental Indenture, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer.
Change of Control Triggering Event
7. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in Section 1.3 of the Third Supplemental Indenture and Sections 2.11 and 2.14 of the Base Indenture. The Notes may be presented for exchange or for registration of transfer at the office of the Company or its agency designated by the Company for such purpose. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable upon exchanges pursuant to Sections 2.11, 3.6 or 9.6 of the Base Indenture). Neither the Company nor the Registrar shall be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of, or exchange Notes for the period beginning at the opening of business fifteen days immediately preceding the mailing of a notice of redemption of Notes selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (b) to register the transfer of or exchange Notes selected, called or being called for redemption as a whole or the portion being redeemed of any such Notes selected, called or being called for redemption in part.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
8. . The person in whose name this Note is registered may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
9. . The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for the payment of principal and interest that remains unclaimed for two years. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
Repayment to the Company
10. . The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Notes without the consent of any Holder: (a) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, (b) to comply with Article V of the Base Indenture (c) to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes, (d) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder, (e) to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of Notes as permitted by the Indenture, (f) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes and to add to or change any of the provisions of the Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts thereunder by more than one Trustee, or (g) to comply with requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA. The Company and the Trustee may enter into a supplemental indenture with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes affected by such supplemental indenture (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Notes), for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Notes. Except as provided in Section 6.13 of the Base Indenture, the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes by notice to the Trustee (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Notes) may waive compliance by the Company with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes.
Amendments, Supplements and Waivers
11. . If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes occurs and is continuing (other than an Event of Default in Sections 1.7.1(d) or 1.7.1(e) of the Third Supplemental Indenture), then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may declare the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all the Notes to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders), and upon such declaration such principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 1.7.1(d) or 1.7.1(e) of the Third Supplemental Indenture shall occur, the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all outstanding Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of outstanding Notes. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, if an Event of Default under the Indenture shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall
Defaults and Remedies
ipso facto
 
have offered the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Notes.
12. . The Trustee, subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent or Registrar.
Trustee May Hold Securities
13. . A director, officer, employee or stockholder (past or present), as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
14. . The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to discharge and defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
Discharge of Indenture
15. . This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication attached to the other side of this Note.
Authentication
16. . The Company is obligated to pay Additional Amounts on this Note to the extent provided in the Third Supplemental Indenture and Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Amounts
17. . In addition to the rights provided to the Holders of Notes under the Indenture, Holders shall have all the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of August 16, 2012, by and among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof.
Registration Rights Agreement
18. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
19. . THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE, INCLUDING ANY CLAIM OR CONTROVERSY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE INDENTURE OR THIS NOTE, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD RESULT IN THE APPLICATION OF ANY LAW OTHER THAN THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to:
 
(Insert assignee's legal name)
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                                                                                                                                                                
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Date:
                                                         
 
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.6.3 of the Third Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
 
If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.6.3 of the Third Supplemental Indenture, state the amount: $.
                
 
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Security for an interest in another Global Security or for a Definitive Security, or exchanges of a part of another Global Security or Definitive Security for an interest in this Global Security, have been made:
 
 
 
Broadcom Corporation
5300 California Avenue
Irvine, CA 92617
Attention: General Counsel
Wilmington Trust, National Association
246 Goose Lane, Suite 105
Guilford, CT 06437
Attn: Joseph P. O'Donnell
Re: 2.500% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2022
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Reference is hereby made to the indenture, dated as of November 1, 2010 (the ""), between Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation (the "") and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as successor by merger to Wilmington Trust FSB, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by that certain third supplemental indenture dated as of August 16, 2012 (the "" and together with the Base Indenture, the "") between the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.             (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Note or Notes or interest[s] in such Note or Notes specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $            in such Note or Notes or interest[s] (the ""), to             (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
Base Indenture
Company
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Transferor
Transfer
Transferee
[CHECK ALL THAT APPLY]
1. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Security is being transferred to a person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Security for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such person exercises sole investment discretion, and such person and each such account is a "" within the meaning of Rule 144A (a "") in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Security and/or the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Security or a Definitive Security Pursuant to Rule 144A
.
Securities Act
qualified institutional buyer
QIB
 
2. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (y) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (z) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the proposed Transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period, the Transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person (as such is defined in Regulation S) or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an initial purchaser of the Notes) and the interest transferred will be held immediately thereafter through Euroclear or Clearstream. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Security and/or the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security or a Definitive Security pursuant to Regulation S
.
3. . The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Securities and Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Definitive Security pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S
(a) Such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act; or
(b) Such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a Subsidiary thereof; or
(c) Such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act; or
(d) Such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or Rule 903 or Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Security or Restricted
 
Definitive Security and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form attached as Exhibit D to the Indenture and (2) an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Definitive Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
4. .
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or of an Unrestricted Definitive Security
(a) (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities, on Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transfer is pursuant to Rule 144.
(b) (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities, on Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S.
(c) (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or Rule 903 or Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Security will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities or Restricted Definitive Securities and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption.
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
 
 
[CHECK ONE OF (a) OR (b)]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
Broadcom Corporation
5300 California Avenue
Irvine, CA 92617
Attention: General Counsel
Wilmington Trust, National Association
246 Goose Lane, Suite 105
Guilford, CT 06437
Attn: Joseph P. O'Donnell
Re: 2.500% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2022
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Reference is hereby made to the indenture, dated as of November 1, 2010 (the ""), between Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation (the "") and Wilmington Trust, as successor by merger to Wilmington Trust FSB, National Association, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by that certain third supplemental indenture dated as of August 16, 2012 (the "" and together with the Base Indenture, the "") between the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.             , (the "") owns and proposes to exchange the Note or Notes or interest[s] in such Note or Notes specified herein, in the principal amount of $            in such Note or Notes or interest[s] (the ""). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
Base Indenture
Company
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Owner
Exchange
1. .
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Unrestricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Security
(a) In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security.
Securities Act
 
(b) In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for an Unrestricted Definitive Security in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to Unrestricted Definitive Security.
(c) In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security.
(d) In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Security for an Unrestricted Definitive Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to Unrestricted Definitive Security.
2.
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities for Restricted Definitive Securities or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities
.
(a) In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a Restricted Definitive Security with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Security issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to Restricted Definitive Security.
 
(b) In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Security for a beneficial interest in the: [CHECK ONE] 144A Global Security or Regulation S Global Security with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Security to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security
.
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
 
Broadcom Corporation
5300 California Avenue
Irvine, CA 92617
Attention: General Counsel
Wilmington Trust, National Association
246 Goose Lane, Suite 105
Guilford, CT 06437
Attn: Joseph P. O'Donnell
Re: 2.500% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2022
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Reference is hereby made to the indenture, dated as of November 1, 2010 (the ""), between Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation (the "") and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as successor by merger to Wilmington Trust FSB, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by that certain third supplemental indenture dated as of August 16, 2012 (the "" and together with the Base Indenture, the "") between the Company and the Trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Base Indenture
Company
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
In connection with our proposed purchase of $            aggregate principal amount of: (a) a beneficial interest in a Global Security, or (b) a Definitive Security, we confirm that:
1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
2. We understand that the offer and sale of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act or any applicable law, and that the Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, we will do so only (1) to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (2) in the United States to a person whom the seller reasonably believes is a "" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A, (3) outside the United States in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 904 under the Securities Act, (4) to an institutional "" (as defined below) that, prior to such transfer furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S.
qualified institutional buyer
accredited investor
 
Broker-Dealer) to you and to the Company a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and an Opinion of Counsel in the form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (4) pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act provided by Rule 144 thereunder (if available) or (5) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, in each of cases (1) through (5) in accordance with any applicable securities laws of any state of the United States, and we further agree to notify any purchaser of the Notes from us of the resale restrictions referred to above.
3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that any subsequent transfer by us of the Notes or beneficial interest therein acquired by us must be effected through one of the initial purchasers of the Notes.
4. We are an institutional "" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
accredited investor
5. We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion, in each case for investment only and not with a view to, or for the offer or sale in connection with, any distribution in violation of the Securities Act.
accredited investor
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
[Insert Name of Accredited Investor]
 

Exhibit 4.2
EXECUTION VERSION
This Registration Rights Agreement (this "") is made and entered into as of August 16, 2012, by and among Broadcom Corporation, a California corporation (the ""), and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC and other initial purchasers (collectively, the ""), each of whom has agreed to purchase the Company's 2.500% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "") pursuant to the Purchase Agreement (as defined below).
Agreement
Company
Initial Purchasers
Initial Securities
This Agreement is made pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated August 13, 2012 (the ""), among the Company and the Initial Purchasers (i) for the benefit of the Initial Purchasers and (ii) for the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Initial Securities, including the Initial Purchasers. In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to purchase the Initial Securities, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers set forth in Section 5(g) of the Purchase Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
The parties hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1. . As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
As defined in Section 5 hereof.
Additional Interest:
As defined in Section 6 hereof.
Advice:
: Of any specified Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, control of a Person shall mean the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" shall have the meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
Any broker or dealer registered under the Exchange Act.
Broker-Dealer:
Any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or U.S. federal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies located in New York, New York are authorized or obligated to be closed.
Business Day:
The date of this Agreement.
Closing Date:
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission:
A registered Exchange Offer shall be deemed "Consummated" for purposes of this Agreement upon the occurrence of (i) the filing and effectiveness under the Securities Act of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement relating to the Exchange Securities to be issued in the Exchange Offer, (ii) the maintenance of such Registration Statement continuously effective and the keeping of the Exchange Offer open for a period not less than the
Consummate:
minimum period required pursuant to Section 3(b) hereof, and (iii) the delivery by the Company to the Registrar under the Indenture of Exchange Securities in the same aggregate principal amount as the aggregate principal amount of Initial Securities that were properly tendered and not withdrawn by Holders thereof pursuant to the Exchange Offer prior to the expiration thereof.
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act:
The registration by the Company under the Securities Act of the issuance and exchange of the Exchange Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement pursuant to which the Company offers the Holders of all outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities the opportunity to exchange all such outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities held by such Holders for Exchange Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities tendered in such exchange offer by such Holders.
Exchange Offer:
The Registration Statement relating to the Exchange Offer, including the related Prospectus.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement:
The transactions in which the Initial Purchasers propose to sell the Initial Securities to certain "qualified institutional buyers," as such term is defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act and to certain non-U.S. persons pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Exempt Resales:
The securities issued by the Company under the Indenture containing terms identical to each series of the Initial Securities (except that (i) interest thereon shall accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the Initial Securities or, if no such interest has been paid, from the Closing Date, and (ii) the Exchange Securities will not contain restrictions on transfer), to be issued to Holders in exchange for Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to this Agreement.
Exchange Securities:
The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
FINRA:
: Any free writing prospectus, as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act, approved for use by the Company relating to any portion of the Securities.
Free Writing Prospectus
As defined in Section 2(b) hereof.
Holders:
As defined in Section 8(a) hereof.
Indemnified Holder:
The Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2010, by and between the Company and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a supplemental indenture dated as of the Closing Date, pursuant to which the Securities are to be issued, as such Indenture is amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture:
The issuance and sale by the Company of the Initial Securities to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the Purchase Agreement.
Initial Placement:
As defined in the preamble hereto.
Initial Purchasers:
 
As defined in the preamble hereto.
Initial Securities:
As defined in the Indenture and the Initial Securities.
Interest Payment Date:
An individual, partnership, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person:
The prospectus included in a Registration Statement, as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement and by all other amendments thereto, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference into such Prospectus.
Prospectus:
As defined in Section 5 hereof.
Registration Default:
Any registration statement of the Company relating to (a) an offering of Exchange Securities pursuant to an Exchange Offer or (b) the registration for resale of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, which is filed pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, in each case, including the Prospectus included therein, all amendments and supplements thereto (including post-effective amendments) and all exhibits and material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement:
The Initial Securities and the Exchange Securities.
Securities:
The Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act:
As defined in Section 4(a) hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement:
As defined in Section 5 hereof.
Suspension Period:
Each Initial Security, until the earliest to occur of (a) the date on which such Initial Security has been offered to be exchanged for an Exchange Security in the Exchange Offer, (b) the date on which such Initial Security has been effectively registered under the Securities Act and disposed of in accordance with a Shelf Registration Statement, (c) the date on which such Initial Security is actually transferred pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, (d) the date on which such Initial Security ceases to be outstanding and (e) the date two years from the Closing Date.
Transfer Restricted Securities:
The Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
Trust Indenture Act:
A registration in which securities of the Company are sold to an underwriter for reoffering to the public. No Underwritten Registration or Underwritten Offering may be effected without the prior consent of the Company, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld by the Company.
Underwritten Registration or Underwritten Offering:
SECTION 2.
Securities Subject to this Agreement.
(a) The securities entitled to the benefits of this Agreement are the Transfer Restricted Securities.
Transfer Restricted Securities.
 
(b) A Person is deemed to be a holder of Transfer Restricted Securities (each, a "") whenever such Person owns Transfer Restricted Securities.
Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities.
Holder
SECTION 3. .
Registered Exchange Offer
(a) Unless the Exchange Offer shall not be permissible under applicable law or Commission policy (after the procedures set forth in Section 6(a) hereof have been complied with), the Company shall on or prior to the 365
th
day after the Closing Date (or if such 365
th
day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), use its commercially reasonable efforts to (i) file a Registration Statement under the Securities Act relating to the Exchange Securities and the Exchange Offer with the Commission, (ii) have such Registration Statement declared effective by the Commission, (iii) promptly following the effectiveness of such Registration Statement, commence the Exchange Offer, and (iv) consummate the Exchange Offer and issue, on or prior to 30 Business Days after the date that notice of the Exchange Offer is mailed to the Holders (or if such 30
th
day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), Exchange Securities in exchange for all Initial Securities properly tendered prior thereto in the Exchange Offer. The Exchange Offer Registration Statement shall be on the appropriate form permitting registration of the Exchange Securities to be offered in exchange for the Transfer Restricted Securities and to permit resales of Initial Securities held by Broker-Dealers as contemplated by Section 3(c) hereof.
(b) The Company shall cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be effective continuously and shall keep the Exchange Offer open for at least 20 Business Days (or longer, if required by applicable law or otherwise extended by the Company, at the Company's option) after the date notice of the Exchange Offer is mailed to the Holders. The Company shall cause the Exchange Offer to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws. No securities other than the Exchange Securities shall be included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
(c) The Company shall indicate in a "Plan of Distribution" section contained in the Prospectus forming a part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement that any Broker-Dealer who holds Initial Securities that are Transfer Restricted Securities and that were acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (other than Transfer Restricted Securities acquired directly from the Company), may exchange such Initial Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer; however, such Broker-Dealer may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and must, therefore, deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resales of the Exchange Securities received by such Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offer, which prospectus delivery requirement may be satisfied by the delivery by such Broker-Dealer of the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. Such "Plan of Distribution" section shall also contain all other information with respect to such resales by Broker-Dealers that the Commission may require in order to permit such resales pursuant thereto, but such "Plan of Distribution" shall not name any such Broker-Dealer or disclose the amount of Initial Securities held by any such Broker-Dealer except to the extent required by the Commission.
 
The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the provisions of Section 6(c) hereof to the extent necessary to ensure that it is available for resales of Initial Securities acquired by Broker-Dealers for their own accounts as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, and to ensure that it conforms with the requirements of this Agreement, the Securities Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, for a period ending on the earlier of (i) 120 days from the date on which the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective and (ii) the date on which a Broker-Dealer is no longer required to deliver a prospectus in connection with market-making or other trading activities.
The Company shall provide sufficient copies of the latest version of such Prospectus to Broker-Dealers promptly upon request at any time during such 120-day (or shorter as provided in the foregoing sentence) period in order to facilitate such resales.
SECTION 4. .
Shelf Registration
(a) If (i) the Company is not required to file an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or permitted to consummate the Exchange Offer because the Exchange Offer is not permitted by applicable law or Commission policy, or (ii) with respect to any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities, such Holder notifies the Company prior to the 10th Business Day following the consummation of the Exchange Offer that such Holder (A) is prohibited by applicable law or Commission policy from participating in the Exchange Offer, or (B) may not resell the Exchange Securities acquired by it in the Exchange Offer to the public without delivering a prospectus and that the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not appropriate or available for such resales by such Holder, or (C) is a Broker-Dealer and holds Initial Securities acquired directly from the Company or one of its Affiliates, or (D) is an Affiliate of the Company and will not receive the Exchange Securities in the Exchange Offer that may be freely transferred without restriction under the federal securities laws, then, upon such Holder's request, the Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to file with the Commission a shelf registration statement pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act, which may be an amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (in either event, the "Shelf Registration Statement") and to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective by the Commission on or prior to the 365
Shelf Registration.
th
day after the day the obligation to file such Shelf Registration Statement arises (or if such 365
th
day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day); that in no event will such Shelf Registration Statement provide for an underwritten offering of Transfer Restricted Securities without the prior consent of the Company, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld by the Company.
provided
The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the provisions of Sections 6(b) and (c) hereof to the extent necessary to ensure that it is available for resales of Initial Securities by the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities entitled to the benefit of this Section 4(a), and to ensure that it conforms with the requirements of this Agreement, the Securities Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, for a period of at least two years following the effective date of such Shelf Registration Statement (or shorter period that will terminate when all the Initial Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement cease to be Transfer Restricted Securities).
 
(b) No Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities may include any of its Transfer Restricted Securities in any Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement or benefit from the provisions regarding Additional Interest set forth herein unless and until such Holder furnishes to the Company in writing, within 15 Business Days after receipt of a request therefor, such information (including comments to such Shelf Registration Statement) as the Company may reasonably request for use in connection with any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus included therein or amendment or supplement thereto or Free Writing Prospectus. Each Holder as to which any Shelf Registration Statement is being effected agrees to furnish promptly to the Company all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Holder not materially misleading.
Provision by Holders of Certain Information in Connection with the Shelf Registration Statement.
SECTION 5. If (i) the Exchange Offer has not been Consummated within 365 days after the Closing Date or (ii) any Registration Statement required by this Agreement is filed and declared effective but thereafter cease to be effective or usable for its intended purpose (other than during a Suspension Period (as defined below)) without being succeeded within 10 Business Days by any additional Registration Statement or post-effective amendment that is filed and subsequently declared effective and cures the failure of such Registration Statement to be effective or usable (each such event referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above, a ""), then the Company hereby agrees that the interest rate borne by the Transfer Restricted Securities shall be increased ("") by 0.25% per annum during the first 90-day period immediately following the occurrence of any Registration Default and shall increase by an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period until all Registration Defaults have been cured, up to a maximum amount of Additional Interest for all Registration Defaults of 0.50% per annum. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults relating to any particular Transfer Restricted Securities, the accrual of Additional Interest will cease and the interest rate borne by the relevant Transfer Restricted Securities will be reduced to the original interest rate borne by such Transfer Restricted Securities; that, if after any such reduction in interest rate, a different Registration Default occurs, the interest rate borne by the relevant Transfer Restricted Securities shall again be increased pursuant to the foregoing provisions. All accrued and unpaid Additional Interest shall be paid by the Company on each applicable Interest Payment Date. The sole remedy for all Registration Defaults shall be the payment of Additional Interest as set forth herein.
Additional Interest.
Registration Default
Additional Interest
provided, however,
For the avoidance of doubt, (i) the amount of Additional Interest payable shall not increase because more than one Registration Default has occurred and is pending and (ii) a Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities that has not timely delivered the information requested by the Company pursuant to Section 4(b) hereof shall not be entitled to Additional Interest with respect to a Registration Default that pertains to the Shelf Registration Statement.
All obligations of the Company set forth in the preceding paragraph that are outstanding with respect to any Transfer Restricted Security at the time such security ceases to be a Transfer Restricted Security shall survive until such time as all such obligations with respect to such security shall have been satisfied in full.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall be permitted to suspend the use of a Shelf Registration Statement without paying Additional Interest for a period not to exceed 60 consecutive calendar days or an aggregate of 90 calendar days in any twelve-month period (a ""), if, in the Company's good faith determination, the continued effectiveness of such Shelf Registration Statement and the use of the related Prospectus would require the public disclosure of material non-public information of the Company. As promptly as practicable following its good faith determination that the event causing the Suspension Period set forth in the preceding sentence no longer exists, the Company shall terminate the Suspension Period and notify each Holder of such termination.
Suspension Period
SECTION 6. .
Registration Procedures
(a) In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Company shall comply with all of the applicable provisions of Section 6(c) hereof, and shall comply with all of the following provisions:
Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
(i) As a condition to its participation in the Exchange Offer pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities shall furnish, upon the request of the Company, prior to the Consummation thereof, a written representation to the Company (which may be contained in the letter of transmittal contemplated by the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) to the effect that (A) it is not an Affiliate of the Company, (B) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Securities and (C) it is acquiring the Exchange Securities in the ordinary course of its business. In addition, all such Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities shall otherwise cooperate in the Company's preparations for the Exchange Offer. Each Holder hereby acknowledges and agrees that any Broker-Dealer and any such Holder using the Exchange Offer to participate in a distribution of the securities to be acquired in the Exchange Offer (1) could not under Commission policy as in effect on the date of this Agreement rely on the position of the Commission enunciated in (available June 5, 1991) and (available May 13, 1988), as interpreted in the Commission's letter to Shearman & Sterling dated July 2, 1993, and similar no-action letters, and (2) must comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act in connection with a secondary resale transaction and that such a secondary resale transaction should be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security holder information required by Item 507 or 508, as applicable, of Regulation S-K if the resales are of Exchange Securities obtained by such Holder in exchange for Initial Securities acquired by such Holder directly from the Company.
Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc.
Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation
(b) In connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall comply with all the provisions of Section 6(c) hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement.
 
(c) In connection with any Registration Statement and any Prospectus required by this Agreement to permit the sale or resale of Transfer Restricted Securities (including, without limitation, any Registration Statement and the related Prospectus required to permit resales of Initial Securities by Broker-Dealers), the Company shall:
General Provisions.
(i) use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective and provide all requisite financial statements for the period specified in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable; upon the occurrence of any event that would cause any such Registration Statement or the Prospectus contained therein (A) to contain a material misstatement or omission or (B) not to be effective and usable for resale of Transfer Restricted Securities during the period required by this Agreement, the Company shall file promptly an appropriate amendment to such Registration Statement, in the case of clause (A), correcting any such misstatement or omission, and, in the case of either clause (A) or (B), use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such amendment to be declared effective (unless automatically declared effective) and such Registration Statement and the related Prospectus to become usable for their intended purpose(s) as soon as practicable thereafter;
(ii) prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and post-effective amendments to the applicable Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep the Registration Statement effective for the applicable period set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable, or such shorter period as will terminate when all Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement cease to be Transfer Restricted Securities; cause the Prospectus to be supplemented by any required Prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act, and to comply fully with the applicable provisions of Rules 424 and 430A under the Securities Act in a timely manner; and comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the sellers thereof set forth in such Registration Statement or supplement to the Prospectus;
(iii) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement or an Exchange Offer Registration Statement maintained as effective following the closing of the Exchange Offer during the applicable period set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, advise the underwriter(s), if any, selling Holders named in a Shelf Registration Statement, and each Broker-Dealer that has requested or received a copy of the Prospectus promptly, (A) when the Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to any Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto, when the same has become effective, (B) of any request by the Commission for amendments to the Registration Statement or amendments or supplements to the Prospectus or for additional information relating thereto, (C) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement under the Securities Act or of the suspension by any state securities commission of the qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation of any proceeding for any of the preceding purposes, (D) of the existence of any fact or the happening of any event that makes any statement of a material fact
 
made in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, any amendment or supplement thereto, or any document incorporated by reference therein untrue, or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus in order to make the statements therein (with respect to the Prospectus, in light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if at any time the Commission shall issue any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement or Exchange Offer Registration Statement, or any state securities commission or other regulatory authority shall issue an order suspending the qualification or exemption from qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities under state securities or blue sky laws, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal or lifting of such order at the earliest possible time;
(iv) furnish without charge to each of the Initial Purchasers, each selling Holder named in any Shelf Registration Statement, and each of the underwriter(s), if any, before filing with the Commission, copies of any Shelf Registration Statement or any Prospectus included therein or any amendments or supplements to any such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all documents incorporated by reference after the initial filing of such Shelf Registration Statement), which documents will be subject to the review and comment of such Holders and underwriter(s) in connection with such sale, if any, for a reasonable period prior to filing (but in any case not more than five Business Days), and the Company will not file any such Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all such documents incorporated by reference) to which an Initial Purchaser of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement or the underwriter(s), if any, shall reasonably object in writing within five Business Days after the receipt thereof (such objection to be deemed timely made upon confirmation of telecopy transmission within such period). The objection of an Initial Purchaser or underwriter, if any, shall be deemed to be reasonable if such Shelf Registration Statement, amendment, Prospectus or supplement, as applicable, as proposed to be filed, contains a material misstatement or omission. This clause (iv) shall not apply to any filing through EDGAR by the Company of any annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly report on Form 10-Q or current report on Form 8-K with respect to matters unrelated to the Transfer Restricted Securities and the offering or exchange therefor;
(v) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement and subject to Section 4(a), make available at reasonable times for inspection by the Initial Purchasers, the managing underwriter(s), if any, participating in any disposition pursuant to such Registration Statement and not more than one law firm or accounting firm retained by such Initial Purchasers or any of the underwriter(s), all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and cause the Company's officers, directors and employees to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Holder, underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with such Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto subsequent to the filing thereof and prior to its effectiveness and to participate in meetings with investors to the extent reasonably requested by the managing underwriter(s), if any;
 
(vi) if reasonably requested by the underwriter(s), if any, or a Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities under a Shelf Registration Statement, promptly incorporate in any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus, pursuant to a supplement or post-effective amendment if necessary, such information as such underwriter(s), if any, or Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities may reasonably request to have included therein, including, without limitation, information relating to the "Plan of Distribution" of the Transfer Restricted Securities, information with respect to the principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities being sold to such underwriter(s), the purchase price being paid therefor and any other terms of the offering of the Transfer Restricted Securities to be sold in such offering; and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment as soon as practicable after the Company is notified of the matters to be incorporated in such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment;
(vii) use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Registration Statement to be rated with the appropriate rating agencies, if so requested by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Securities covered thereby or the underwriter(s), if any;
(viii) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, furnish to each Initial Purchaser, each selling Holder and each of the underwriter(s), if any, without charge, at least one copy of the Shelf Registration Statement, as first filed with the Commission, and of each amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules, all documents incorporated by reference therein and all exhibits (including exhibits incorporated by reference therein);
(ix) deliver to each selling Holder and each of the underwriter(s), if any, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary prospectus) and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Persons reasonably may request; the Company hereby consents to the use of the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders and each of the underwriter(s), if any, in connection with the offering and the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto;
(x) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement and subject to Section 4(a), enter into such customary agreements (including an underwriting agreement), and make such customary representations and warranties, and take all such other actions, all to such extent as may be reasonably requested by any Initial Purchaser or by any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities or underwriter in connection with any sale or resale pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement; and in connection solely with an Underwritten Registration, the Company shall:
(A) furnish to each Initial Purchaser, each selling Holder and each underwriter, if any, in such substance and scope as they may reasonably request and as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings, upon the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement:
 
(1) a certificate, dated the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, signed by (y) the President or any Vice President and (z) a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company, attesting to the matters set forth in Section 5(f) of the Purchase Agreement and such other matters as such parties may reasonably request;
(2) an opinion, dated the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, of counsel for the Company, covering matters substantially similar to the matters set forth in Section 5(d) of the Purchase Agreement; and
(3) a customary comfort letter, dated the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, from the Company's independent accountants, in the customary form and covering matters of the type customarily requested to be covered in comfort letters by underwriters in connection with primary underwritten offerings, and covering or affirming the matters set forth in the comfort letters delivered pursuant to Section 5(a) of the Purchase Agreement, without exception;
(B) set forth in full or incorporate by reference in the underwriting agreement, if any, the indemnification provisions and procedures of Section 8 hereof with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section; and
(C) deliver such other documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the managing underwriter, if any, and the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities to evidence compliance with Section 6(c)(x)(A) hereof and with any customary conditions contained in the underwriting agreement or other agreement entered into by the Company pursuant to this Section 6(c)(x), if any.
If at any time the representations and warranties of the Company contemplated in Section 6(c)(x)(A)(1) hereof cease to be true and correct, the Company shall so advise the Initial Purchasers and the underwriter(s), if any, and each selling Holder promptly;
(xi) prior to any public offering of Transfer Restricted Securities, use commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify the Transfer Restricted Securities under the state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as the selling Holders or underwriter(s), if any, may request and do any and all other acts or things necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement; , that the Company shall not be required to register or qualify as a foreign entity where it is not then so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to the service of process in suits or to taxation in any jurisdiction where it is not then so subject;
provided, however
(xii) shall issue, upon the request of any Holder of Initial Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement, Exchange Securities having an aggregate principal
 
amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Initial Securities surrendered to the Company by such Holder in exchange therefor or being sold by such Holder; such Exchange Securities to be registered in the name of such Holder or in the name of the purchaser(s) of such Securities, as the case may be; in return, the Initial Securities held by such Holder shall be surrendered to the Company for cancellation;
(xiii) cooperate with the selling Holders and the underwriter(s), if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Transfer Restricted Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and enable such Transfer Restricted Securities to be in such denominations and registered in such names as the Holders or the underwriter(s), if any, may request at least five Business Days prior to any sale of Transfer Restricted Securities made by such Holders or underwriter(s);
(xiv) if any fact or event contemplated by Section 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof shall exist or have occurred, prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of Transfer Restricted Securities, the Prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein in light of the circumstances under which they were made not misleading;
(xv) provide a CUSIP number for all Securities not later than the effective date of the Registration Statement covering such Securities and provide the Trustee under the Indenture with printed certificates for such Securities which are in a form eligible for deposit with the Depository Trust Company and take all other action necessary to ensure that all such Securities are eligible for deposit with the Depository Trust Company;
(xvi) cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with FINRA and in the performance of any due diligence investigation by any underwriter (including any "qualified independent underwriter" as the term is defined within the rules and regulations of FINRA) that is required to be retained in accordance with the rules and regulations of FINRA;
(xvii) otherwise use its commercially reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission, and make generally available to its security holders, as soon as practicable, a consolidated earnings statement meeting the requirements of Rule 158 under the Securities Act (which need not be audited) for the twelve-month period (A) commencing at the end of any fiscal quarter in which Transfer Restricted Securities are sold to underwriters in a firm commitment or best efforts Underwritten Offering or (B) if not sold to underwriters in such an offering, beginning with the first month of the Company's first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of the Registration Statement;
(xviii) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act not later than the effective date of the first Registration Statement required by this Agreement, and, in connection therewith, cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders of Securities to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for such Indenture to be so
 
qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act; and to execute and use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents that may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the Commission to enable such Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
(xix) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, cause all Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement to be listed on each securities exchange or automated quotation system on which similar debt securities issued by the Company (if any) are then listed if requested by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Initial Securities or the managing underwriter(s), if any; and
(xx) if not otherwise available on EDGAR, provide promptly to each Holder upon request each document filed with the Commission pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 and Section 15 of the Exchange Act.
Each Holder agrees by acquisition of a Transfer Restricted Security that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the existence of any fact of the kind described in Section 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof or any Suspension Period, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the applicable Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 6(c)(xiv) hereof, or until it is advised in writing (the "") by the Company that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated by reference in the Prospectus. If so directed by the Company, each Holder will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Transfer Restricted Securities that was current at the time of receipt of such notice. In the event the Company shall give any such notice, the time period regarding the effectiveness of such Registration Statement set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable, shall be extended by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice pursuant to Section 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof to and including the date when each selling Holder covered by such Registration Statement shall have received the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 6(c)(xiv) hereof or shall have received the Advice; that no such extension shall be taken into account in determining whether Additional Interest is due pursuant to Section 5 hereof or the amount of such Additional Interest, it being agreed that the Company's option to suspend use of a Registration Statement pursuant to this paragraph (but not, for the avoidance of doubt, during a Suspension Period) shall be treated as a Registration Default for purposes of Section 5 hereof.
Advice
provided, however,
SECTION 7. .
Registration Expenses
(a) All expenses incident to the Company's performance of or compliance with this Agreement will be borne by the Company, regardless of whether a Registration Statement becomes effective, including, without limitation: (i) all registration and filing fees and expenses (including filings made by any Initial Purchaser or Holder with FINRA (and, if applicable, the fees and expenses of any "qualified independent underwriter" and its counsel that may be required by the rules and regulations of FINRA)); (ii) all fees and expenses of compliance with federal securities and state securities or blue sky laws; (iii) all expenses of
 
printing (including printing certificates for the Exchange Securities to be issued in the Exchange Offer and printing of Prospectuses), messenger and delivery services and telephone; (iv) all fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and, subject to Section 7(b) hereof, the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities; (v) all application and filing fees in connection with listing the Exchange Securities on a securities exchange or automated quotation system pursuant to the requirements thereof; and (vi) all fees and disbursements of independent certified public accountants of the Company (including the expenses of any special audit and comfort letters required by or incident to such performance).
The Company will, in any event, bear its internal expenses (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expenses of any annual audit and the fees and expenses of any Person, including special experts, retained by the Company.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities shall pay all agency fees and commissions and underwriting discounts and commissions, if any, and transfer taxes, if any, attributable to the sale of such Transfer Restricted Securities, and the fees and disbursements of any counsel or other advisor or experts retained by such Holders (severally or jointly), other than the counsel and experts specifically referred to above.
(b) In connection with any Shelf Registration Statement required by this Agreement, the Company will reimburse the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities being registered pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement for the reasonable fees and disbursements of not more than one counsel, who shall be Shearman & Sterling LLP or such other counsel as may be chosen by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities for whose benefit such Shelf Registration Statement is being prepared.
SECTION 8. .
Indemnification
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless (i) each Holder and (ii) each Person, if any, who controls (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) any Holder (any of the Persons referred to in this clause (ii) being hereinafter referred to as a "controlling person") and (iii) the respective officers, directors, partners, employees, representatives and agents of any Holder or any controlling person (any Person referred to in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) may hereinafter be referred to as an ""), to the fullest extent lawful, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions and expenses (including, without limitation, and as incurred, reimbursement of all reasonable costs of investigating, preparing, pursuing, settling, compromising, paying or defending any claim or action, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, including the reasonable fees and expenses of not more than one counsel for the Indemnified Holders), joint or several, directly or indirectly caused by, related to, based upon, arising out of or in connection with any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or Free Writing Prospectus, or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are caused by an untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue
Indemnified Holder
 
statement or omission that is made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any of the Holders furnished in writing to the Company by any of the Holders expressly for use therein. This indemnity agreement shall be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have.
In case any action or proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation or proceeding) shall be brought or asserted against any of the Indemnified Holders with respect to which indemnity may be sought against the Company, such Indemnified Holder (or the Indemnified Holder controlled by such controlling person) shall promptly notify the Company in writing; that the failure to give such notice shall not relieve the Company of its obligations pursuant to this Agreement except to the extent the Company is prejudiced by any such failure. The Indemnified Holders shall have the right to employ not more than one counsel in any such action and the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel shall be paid, as incurred, by the Company subject to the limitations on the Company's indemnification obligations set forth in Section 8(a) hereof. The Company shall not, in connection with any one such action or proceeding or separate but substantially similar or related actions or proceedings arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to any local counsel) at any time for such Indemnified Holders, which firm shall be designated by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities. The Company shall be liable for any settlement of any such action or proceeding effected with the Company's prior written consent, which consent shall not be withheld unreasonably, and the Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless any Indemnified Holder from and against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of any settlement of any action effected with the written consent of the Company. The Company shall not, without the prior written consent of each Indemnified Holder, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in or otherwise seek to terminate any pending or threatened action, claim, litigation or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not any Indemnified Holder is a party thereto), unless such settlement, compromise, consent or termination includes an unconditional release of each Indemnified Holder from all liability arising out of such action, claim, litigation or proceeding.
provided, however,
(b) Each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and its directors, officers of the Company who sign a Registration Statement, and any Person controlling (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) the Company, and the respective officers, directors, partners, employees, representatives and agents of each such Person, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each of the Indemnified Holders, but only with respect to claims and actions based on information relating to such Holder furnished in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement or Prospectus. In case any action or proceeding shall be brought against the Company or its directors or officers or any such controlling person in respect of which indemnity may be sought against a Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities, such Holder shall have the rights and duties given to the Company, and the Company, its directors and officers and such controlling person shall have the rights and duties given to each Holder by the preceding paragraph.
 
(c) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 8 is unavailable to an indemnified party under Section 8(a) or (b) hereof (other than by reason of exceptions provided in those Sections) in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions or expenses referred to therein, then each applicable indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, from the Initial Placement (which in the case of the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds to the Company from the Initial Placement), the amount of Additional Interest which did not become payable as a result of the filing of the Registration Statement resulting in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments actions or expenses, and such Registration Statement, or if such allocation is not permitted by applicable law, the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Holders on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Holders, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(a) hereof, any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
The Company and each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(c) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8, none of the Holders (and its related Indemnified Holders) shall be required to contribute, in the aggregate, any amount in excess of the amount by which the total discount received by such Holder with respect to the Initial Securities exceeds the amount of any damages which such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Holders' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 8(c) are several in proportion to the respective principal amount of Initial Securities held by each of the Holders hereunder and not joint.
SECTION 9. The Company hereby agrees with each Holder, for so long as any Transfer Restricted Securities remain outstanding, to make available to any Holder or beneficial owner of Transfer Restricted Securities in connection with any sale thereof and any
Rule 144A.
 
prospective purchaser of such Transfer Restricted Securities from such Holder or beneficial owner, the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act in order to permit resales of such Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
SECTION 10. No Holder may participate in any Underwritten Registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Transfer Restricted Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all reasonable questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements, lock-up letters and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
Participation in Underwritten Registrations.
SECTION 11. The Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement who desire to do so may sell such Transfer Restricted Securities in an Underwritten Offering only upon the prior consent of the Company, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld. In any such Underwritten Offering so consented to by the Company, the investment banker(s) and managing underwriter(s) that will administer such offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities included in such offering; , that such investment banker(s) and managing underwriter(s) must be reasonably satisfactory to the Company.
Selection of Underwriters.
provided, however
SECTION 12. .
Miscellaneous
(a) Except with respect to Sections 9 and 12(b) herein, the parties hereto hereby agree to waive the right to specific performance in connection with any breach of the provisions of this Agreement.
Specific Performance.
(b) The Company will not on or after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's securities under any agreement in effect on the date hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements.
(c) The Company will not, and will use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause its affiliates (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) not to, resell or otherwise transfer any Securities.
Purchase and Sales of Securities.
(d) . The Company covenants to the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities that to the extent it shall be required to do so under the Exchange Act, the Company shall timely file the reports required to be filed by it under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission thereunder, and shall take such further action as any Holder may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell Transfer Restricted Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitations of the exemption provided by Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar or successor rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission. Upon the request of any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities in connection with such Holder's sale pursuant to Rule 144, the Company shall deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements.
Rule 144
 
(e) The Company will not take any action, or permit any change to occur, with respect to the Securities that would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Holders to Consummate any Exchange Offer.
Adjustments Affecting the Securities.
(f) The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to or departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has (i) in the case of Section 5 hereof and this Section 12(d)(i), obtained the written consent of Holders of all outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities and (ii) in the case of all other provisions hereof, obtained the written consent of Holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities (excluding any Transfer Restricted Securities held by the Company or its Affiliates). Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose securities are being tendered pursuant to the Exchange Offer and that does not affect directly or indirectly the rights of other Holders whose securities are not being tendered pursuant to such Exchange Offer may be given by the Holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities being tendered or registered; that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of any Initial Purchaser hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of each such Initial Purchaser with respect to which such amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver, consent or departure is to be effective.
Amendments and Waivers.
provided, however,
(g) All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telex, telecopier, or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery:
Notices.
(i) if to a Holder, at the address set forth on the records of the Registrar under the Indenture, with a copy to the Registrar under the Indenture; and
(ii) if to the Company:
Broadcom Corporation
5300 California Avenue
Irvine, CA 92617
Facsimile: 949-926-9244
Attention: General Counsel
with copies to:
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
525 University Avenue, Suite 1100
Palo Alto, CA 94301
Facsimile: 650-470-4570
Attention: Thomas J. Ivey
 
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day, if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee at the address specified in the Indenture.
(h) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties, including, without limitation, and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities; , that this Agreement shall not inure to the benefit of or be binding upon a successor or assign of a Holder unless and to the extent such successor or assign acquired Transfer Restricted Securities from such Holder.
Successors and Assigns.
provided, however
(i) This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
(j) The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.
(k) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW RULES THEREOF.
Governing Law.
(l) In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability.
(m) This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein with respect to the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Transfer Restricted Securities. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
The foregoing Registration Rights Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. LLC
Acting as representatives of the
several Initial Purchasers named in
Schedule A to the Purchase Agreement.
 
 


