FILE:BRCM/BRCM-8K-20120131161256.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
On January 31, 2012 Broadcom Corporation (the "Company" or "Broadcom") issued a press release announcing unaudited financial results for the three months and year ended December 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Broadcom reports the following measures in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP and on a non-GAAP basis: (i) cost of product revenue, (ii) product gross profit, (iii) product gross margin (iv) research and development and selling, general and administrative expense, (v) net income, (vi) weighted average shares outstanding (diluted) and (vii) diluted net income per share, referred to collectively as "non-GAAP financial measures". These non-GAAP financial measures exclude stock-based compensation expense, as well as charges related to acquisitions, employer payroll taxes and non-recurring, infrequent or unusual charges and gains that are driven primarily by discrete events that management does not consider to be directly related to the Company's core operating performance. Non-GAAP net income per share is calculated by dividing non-GAAP net income by non-GAAP weighted average shares outstanding (diluted). For this purpose, the calculation of GAAP weighted average shares outstanding (diluted) is adjusted to exclude the benefits of compensation costs attributable to future services and not yet recognized in the financial statements that are treated as proceeds assumed to be used to repurchase shares under the GAAP treasury stock method.
Broadcom believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures provides important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Broadcom's management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability among and between results from prior periods or forecasts and future prospects, and also facilitates comparisons with other companies in the Company's industry, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results. Broadcom's management has historically used these non-GAAP financial measures when evaluating operating performance, because Broadcom believes that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides insight into its core operating results, its ability to generate cash and underlying business trends affecting performance. Broadcom has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate the Company's ongoing core operations. Externally, Broadcom believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when used in conjunction with the Company's GAAP financial information, is useful to investors in their assessment of Broadcom's operating performance and the valuation of the Company.
Internally, these non-GAAP financial measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These Non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted for one or more of the following items:
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally, the calculation of non-GAAP net income per share uses non-GAAP weighted average shares outstanding (diluted). The treasury stock method used to calculate GAAP weighted average shares outstanding (diluted) requires amounts related to compensation costs attributable to future services and not yet recognized in the financial statements to be treated as proceeds that are assumed to be used to repurchase shares. As a result, this reduces the total number of weighted average shares for purposes of calculating GAAP weighted average shares
outstanding (diluted). Since Broadcom does not include the effects of these compensation costs in its non-GAAP net income, management believes these amounts should not be applied to the repurchase of shares in calculating non-GAAP net income per share, and, accordingly, adds such shares back into weighted average shares outstanding for purposes of calculating non-GAAP net income per share.
Non-GAAP financial measures are not calculated in accordance with GAAP, and should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the costs associated with the operations of Broadcom's business as determined in accordance with GAAP. As a result, you should not consider these measures in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of Broadcom's results as reported under GAAP. Broadcom expects to continue to incur expenses similar to the non-GAAP adjustments described above, and exclusion of these items from Broadcom's non-GAAP financial measures should not be construed as an inference that these costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Some of the limitations in relying on non-GAAP financial measures are:
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99.1    Press Release dated January 31, 2012 of the Registrant.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
IRVINE, Calif.  January 31, 2012
Fourth Quarter 2011
Net Revenue $1.82 billion  Down 6.4% Year over Year
GAAP Diluted EPS $0.45; Non-GAAP Diluted EPS $0.68
Full Year 2011
Net Revenue $7.39 billion  Up 8.4% Year over Year
GAAP Diluted EPS $1.65; Non-GAAP Diluted EPS $2.89
Q4 GAAP Results
 
 
 
 
Q4 Non-GAAP Results
 
 
Full Year 2011 GAAP Results
 
 
 
 
Full Year 2011 Non-GAAP Results
 
 
Broadcom Corporation (NASDAQ: BRCM), a global innovation leader in semiconductor solutions for wired and wireless communications, today reported unaudited financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2011.
"Broadcom delivered solid results in 2011, as we gained significant market share, secured record design wins across our businesses, and delivered record revenue and cash flow from operations," said Scott McGregor, Broadcom's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Looking forward, we will remain focused on product innovation and engineering execution that position us to grow faster than the industry."
 
Net revenue for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $1.82 billion. This represents a decrease of 7.0% compared with the $1.96 billion reported for the third quarter of 2011 and a decrease of 6.4% compared with the $1.95 billion reported for the fourth quarter of 2010. Net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $254 million, or $.45 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $270 million, or $.48 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2011 and GAAP net income of $266 million, or $.47 per share (diluted), for the fourth quarter of 2010.
Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $7.39 billion. This represents an increase in net revenue of 8.4% from the $6.82 billion reported for the year ended December 31, 2010. Net income computed in accordance with GAAP for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $927 million, or $1.65 per share (diluted), compared with GAAP net income of $1.08 billion, or $1.99 per share (diluted), for the year ended December 31, 2010.
In addition to GAAP results, Broadcom reports adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share, referred to respectively as "non-GAAP net income" and "non-GAAP diluted net income per share." A discussion of Broadcom's use of these and other non-GAAP financial measures is set forth below. Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures for the three months and years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, appear in the financial statements portion of this release under the heading "Unaudited Schedule of Selected GAAP to Non-GAAP Adjustments."
Non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $395 million, or $.68 per share (diluted), compared with non-GAAP net income of $475 million, or $.82 per share (diluted), for the third quarter of 2011 and non-GAAP net income of $488 million, or $.83 per share diluted, for the fourth quarter of 2010. Non-GAAP net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $1.70 billion, or $2.89 per share (diluted), compared with non-GAAP net income of $1.72 billion, or $3.02 per share (diluted), for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Conference Call Information
As previously announced, Broadcom will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its fourth quarter and 2011 financial results and current financial prospects today at 1:45 p.m. Pacific Time (4:45 p.m. Eastern Time). The company will broadcast the conference call via webcast over the Internet. To listen to the webcast, or to view the financial and other statistical information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, please visit the Investors section of the Broadcom website at . The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until 11:59 p.m. Pacific Time on Wednesday, February 29, 2012.
www.broadcom.com/investors
 
The financial results included in this release are unaudited. The audited financial statements of the company for the year ended December 31, 2011 will be included in Broadcom's Annual Report on Form 10-K, to be filed with the SEC as soon as practicable.
About Broadcom
Broadcom Corporation (NASDAQ: BRCM), a FORTUNE 500 company, is a global innovation leader in semiconductor solutions for wired and wireless communications. Broadcom products seamlessly deliver voice, video, data and multimedia connectivity in the home, office and mobile environments. With the industry's broadest portfolio of state-of-the-art system-on-a-chip and embedded software solutions, Broadcom is changing the world by Connecting everything. For more information, go to www.broadcom.com.
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Broadcom reports the following measures in accordance with GAAP and on a non-GAAP basis: (i) cost of product revenue, (ii) product gross profit, (iii) product gross margin, (iv) research and development and selling, general and administrative expense, (v) net income, (vi) weighted average shares outstanding (diluted) and (vii) diluted net income per share. Broadcom's presentation of non-GAAP cost of product revenue, non-GAAP product gross profit, and non-GAAP product gross margin excludes certain charges related to acquisitions, stock-based compensation expense and employer payroll tax expense on certain stock option exercises. Our non-GAAP research and development and selling, general and administrative expense excludes stock-based compensation expense and employer payroll tax expense on certain stock option exercises, non-recurring legal fees, and changes in contingent earn-out liabilities. In addition to the exclusions noted above, our non-GAAP net income and diluted net income per share (EPS) also exclude settlement costs, charitable contributions, restructuring costs (reversals) and impairment of long-lived assets. Stock-based compensation expense primarily includes the impact of stock options and restricted stock units issued by Broadcom. Reconciliations of our GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures for the three months and years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 appear in the financial statements portion of this release under the heading "Unaudited Schedule of Selected GAAP to Non-GAAP Adjustments." Some totals or amounts may not add or conform to prior period presentations due to rounding.
Broadcom believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measures provides important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations. Broadcom's management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability among and between results from prior periods or forecasts and future prospects, and also facilitates comparisons with other companies in our industry, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their
 
GAAP results. Broadcom's management has historically used these non-GAAP financial measures when evaluating operating performance, because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described above provides insight into our core operating results, our ability to generate cash and underlying business trends affecting our performance. Broadcom has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. The non-GAAP financial information presented herein should be considered supplemental to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
For additional information on the items excluded by Broadcom from one or more of its non-GAAP financial measures, refer to the Form 8-K regarding this release furnished today to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Cautions Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
All statements included or incorporated by reference in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors, other than statements or characterizations of historical fact, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and industry, management's beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us, all of which are subject to change. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, guidance provided on future revenue, gross product margin and operating expense targets for the first quarter of 2012 (on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis), and references to our anticipated growth compared to the overall semiconductor industry. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 when it is filed, discuss the foregoing risks as well as other important risk factors that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The forward-looking statements used in this release and the related conference call for analysts and investors speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement to reflect future events or circumstances.
Broadcom, the pulse logo, Connecting everything, and the Connecting everything logo are among the trademarks of Broadcom Corporation and/or its affiliates in the United States, certain other countries and/or the EU. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
The following table presents details of total stock-based compensation expense in each functional line item in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income above:
included
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Broadcom has based the preceding guidance for the three months ending March 31, 2012 on expectations, assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable given our assessment of historical trends and other information reasonably available as of January 31, 2012. Our guidance consists of predictions only, however, and is subject to a wide range of known and unknown business risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. The forecasts and projections contained in the table above should not be regarded as representations by Broadcom that the estimated results will be achieved. Projections and estimates are necessarily speculative in nature and actual results may vary materially from the guidance we provide today. The non-GAAP guidance presented above is consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP results included elsewhere herein.
The guidance set forth in the above table should be read together with the information under the caption, "Cautions Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" above, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 when it is filed. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, including the guidance set forth herein, to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
 


