FILE:CF/CF-8K-20061026183226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
Form 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
October 26, 2006
CF Industries Holdings, Inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(847) 438-9500
 
(Former name or former address if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 2.02.              Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 26, 2006, CF Industries Holdings, Inc. issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits.
 
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
 
Third Quarter Highlights:
Net sales increased over third quarter 2005, as higher volumes in nitrogen and phosphate offset lower nitrogen prices.
                 
Gross margin of $25.8 million included mark-to-market losses on derivatives of $13.0 million, equivalent to $0.14 per share on an after-tax basis.
                 
Natural gas costs declined from 2005 Third Quarter and 2006 Second Quarter.
                 
Financial position and liquidity remain strong.
                 
Company announces approximately $21 million in capital projects to increase natural gas efficiency at Donaldsonville nitrogen complex and increase capacity at Plant City, Florida phosphate complex.
                 
Authorization to mine and reclaim Hardee County phosphate reserves extended.
                 
1
 
Conditions suggest increased demand in key Midwestern agricultural markets through next spring.
                 
Long Grove, IL, October 26, 2006  CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: CF) today reported net earnings of $7.3 million, or 13 cents per common share, for the third quarter of 2006.  In 2005's third quarter, the company reported a net loss of $91.4 million, or $1.66 per common share on a pro forma basis.  The 2005 third quarter loss was primarily the result of unusual items related to the company's August 2005 Initial Public Offering (IPO).
Third quarter 2006 net sales totaled $378.0 million, up 5 percent from $359.4 million in the year-earlier third quarter.
"This was a good quarter, with both net sales and product volume up from third quarter 2005 levels," explained Stephen R. Wilson, chairman and chief executive officer, CF Industries Holdings, Inc.
"The quarter was notable for what did  and for what didn't  happen.  We did see natural gas prices fall from second quarter levels, as gas storage totals in North America pushed to near-record highs.  This contributed to reduced cash production costs for us and to continued moderation in fertilizer prices," he explained.  "But perhaps more importantly, we didn't see a repeat of 2005's hurricane season, which had such negative financial impacts on domestic fertilizer producers and agricultural markets last year," Wilson added.
Quarter-on-Quarter Comparison
CF Industries' third quarter results included an unfavorable $13.0 million pre-tax non-cash adjustment to cost of sales for marking natural gas derivatives to market, as well as pre-tax realized losses on derivatives of $1.7 million.  The $13.0 million adjustment relates to derivatives largely associated with nitrogen fertilizer orders that will be shipped in subsequent periods.  It compares to $14.1 million in pre-tax gains on natural gas derivatives reflected in third quarter 2005 cost of sales, when the company still applied hedge accounting, primarily due to forward gas positions terminated in that quarter pursuant to reductions in operating levels in last year's fourth quarter.
Third quarter 2005 results also included a number of unusual and non-recurring items related to the company's IPO, including a $28.3 million loss on extinguishment of pre-IPO term debt, a $1.9 million charge related to termination of a previous long-term incentive plan for the company's senior management, and $2.9 million of IPO-related expenses.  The company also recorded a $99.9 million charge to income tax expense in the third quarter of 2005 to establish a valuation allowance against net operating loss carryforwards generated when the company operated as a cooperative for tax purposes.
2
 
Nitrogen Fertilizer Business
Nitrogen net sales for the third quarter totaled $260.5 million, comparable to the $258.3 million in 2005's third quarter.  Increased urea and urea ammonium nitrate solution (UAN) volumes helped offset reduced average selling prices for the company's nitrogen products.  Total nitrogen sales volume was 1,378,000 tons, up 17 percent from 1,176,000 tons in the comparable 2005 quarter.
The gross margin on nitrogen sales was $9.6 million, compared to $45.0 million in 2005's third quarter.  The current quarter's nitrogen margin was affected by reduced prices, as well as a $13.0 million unfavorable mark-to-market adjustment.  The gross margin in 2005's third quarter, a period when CF Industries utilized hedge accounting, included $14.1 million in gains on natural gas derivatives.  As noted above, these gains were primarily due to forward positions terminated during the quarter.
"In the third quarter, which typically has lower seasonal demand, the nitrogen fertilizer market saw some customers hesitant to make commitments in a falling fertilizer price environment.  Despite this, we successfully maintained good volumes for the period," Wilson noted, adding that, "The quarter's lower average selling prices for nitrogen products reflected market conditions and the seasonal demand pattern, as well as the effect of falling natural gas prices."
Nitrogen fertilizer sales under the company's forward pricing program (FPP) were 380,000 tons during the quarter, representing 28 percent of nitrogen fertilizer volume.  This rate of FPP sales compares to 797,000 tons, or 68 percent of nitrogen volume, in 2005's third quarter.
"The decline in FPP orders was understandable, as some customers deferred purchases in expectation of lower nitrogen prices closer to the time of shipment.  Of course, from CF Industries' perspective, declining production costs made these sales attractive, and total volume was actually up from last year's third quarter," Wilson explained.
Other than downtime for normal maintenance activities, the company's nitrogen complexes operated at near-capacity levels during the third quarter, with product purchases made to augment, rather than replace, production.
Phosphate Fertilizer Business
Third quarter phosphate fertilizer sales totaled $117.5 million, up 16 percent from $101.1 million in 2005's third quarter.  Product volumes and average selling prices both increased, compared to the year-earlier quarter.  Sales volume was 510,000 tons, up 11 percent from 460,000 tons in 2005's third quarter.
3
 
The gross margin on phosphate sales, primarily reflecting improved pricing and higher volume, was $16.2 million, up 47 percent from $11.0 million in 2005's third quarter.
"The quarter-on-quarter improvement was impressive, as the phosphate market maintained the good pricing and volume levels we had seen earlier in 2006," Wilson noted.
Phosphate forward sales totaled 54,000 tons, or 11 percent of total segment sales.  In 2005's third quarter, phosphate fertilizer sales under the FPP were 229,000 tons, or 50 percent of total phosphate fertilizer sales.
"In phosphate, as in nitrogen, pricing has encouraged some customers to defer commitments until closer to the time of shipment," Wilson explained.
The company's phosphate complex operated at capacity levels during the third quarter.
Liquidity and Financial Position
At September 30, 2006, the company's gross cash and short-term investments totaled $305.4 million, and the company's $250 million senior secured revolving credit facility was undrawn.  Under the facility's borrowing base formula, there was approximately $199.6 million in available credit.
At September 30, 2006, the company's current liability for customer advances was $148.8 million.  The company had negative net debt (i.e., net cash) of $152.2 million compared to negative net debt of $129.9 million at September 30, 2005.  (Net debt is defined as debt, less cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, plus customer advances.)
Other Developments
CF Industries also announced several other recent developments, including:
The company's Board of Directors has authorized two capital projects, together totaling approximately $21 million.  One project will improve the natural gas efficiency of two of the four ammonia plants at the company's Donaldsonville, Louisiana nitrogen complex.  The company expects to complete the upgrade of one ammonia plant in 2007 and the other in 2008.  The other project is an increase in capacity at the company's Plant City, Florida phosphate complex.  The 15-month project is scheduled to begin later this year and is designed to increase overall complex capacity by more than 80,000 tons of diammonium phosphate (DAP) annually.  It should also enhance operational flexibility, increasing the complex's ability to shift production from DAP to monoammonium phosphate (MAP).
                 
4
 
"These capital projects are examples of our focus on continuous improvement in our operations," Wilson noted.
                   
The company has received an extension of its Florida phosphate mine's local development authorization from the Hardee County Board of Commissioners, extending the termination date from December of 2011 to December of 2029.  This will allow it to mine the currently permitted phosphate rock reserves and then reclaim affected land.  The extension will permit CF Industries to mine an additional 11 years of reserves (at current operating rates) beyond the original 2011 termination date.
                 
CF Industries continues to advance its work with respect to its future direction.  "We've established and as our strategic priorities.  In this global industry, we must increase our size and diversify our sources of cash flow in order to become less dependent on the relationship between nitrogen fertilizer prices and North American natural gas costs," he noted.  "Our initiatives to address these priorities generally will be natural extensions of our core competencies and may include organic initiatives, merger and acquisition activity, joint ventures, and other strategic actions," Wilson added.
                 
growth
diversification
Outlook
"Today, the fundamentals of the domestic fertilizer market appear reasonably strong for the fourth quarter  and at least through spring," Wilson noted.
"Looking at the fourth quarter, natural gas prices are moderate by recent standards, and crop prices are trending upward.  At the same time, nitrogen price levels in international markets have discouraged increased imports in our domestic markets," he explained.
The CF Industries Chief Executive Officer noted, however, that fourth quarter demand will be affected by weather conditions and customers' perceptions of future prices.  "We've seen some hesitancy by wholesalers and retailers to build inventory in a market that has experienced fertilizer price volatility," he added.
"Looking ahead to 2007, we're optimistic that growing demand for corn and other crops, pushed by increasing ethanol production and low worldwide grain stocks, could lead to improved crop prices, increased corn acreage, and higher fertilizer application rates," Wilson said.
As of October 25, 2006, forward bookings for the fourth quarter totaled approximately 908,000 tons, compared to nearly 1.2 million tons at a comparable point last year.
5
 
The company's nitrogen and phosphate operations are expected to remain at capacity levels during the fourth quarter, with the exception of normal maintenance activities.  However, future rates are dependent upon demand, competitive conditions, and maintenance activity.
Conference Call
CF Industries will hold a conference call to discuss its third quarter results at 10:00 a.m. ET on Friday, October 27, 2006.  Information on accessing the call is posted on the Investor Relations section of the company's Web site at www.cfindustries.com.
Company Information
CF Industries Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Long Grove, Illinois, is the holding company for the operations of CF Industries, Inc.  CF Industries, Inc. is a major producer and distributor of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer products. CF Industries operates world-scale nitrogen fertilizer plants in Donaldsonville, Louisiana and Medicine Hat, Alberta, Canada; conducts phosphate mining and manufacturing operations in Central Florida; and distributes fertilizer products through a system of terminals, warehouses, and associated transportation equipment located primarily in the midwestern United States.
Note Regarding Use of Pro Forma Information
The company's August 2005 IPO and related reorganization transaction did not change the nature of CF Industries' business or operations.  As a result, the company believes that current and historical financial statements are comparable.  Accordingly, financial statements are presented on a historical basis, with weighted-average shares outstanding and earnings (loss) per share information presented on a pro forma basis with respect to pre-IPO financial information.
Note Regarding Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The company reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  Management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures provide additional meaningful information regarding the company's performance, liquidity, financial strength and capital structure.  The non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.  In addition, because not all companies use identical calculations, the non-GAAP financial measures included in this earnings release may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.  Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP are provided in tables accompanying this news release.
6
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements contained in this release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities laws.  All statements in this release, other than those relating to our historical information or current condition, are forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  These risks and uncertainties include: the relatively expensive and volatile cost of North American natural gas; the cyclical nature of our business; our history of losses; the nature of our products as global commodities; intense global competition in the consolidating markets in which we operate; conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry; weather conditions; our inability to accurately predict seasonal demand for our products; the concentration of our sales with CF Industries' pre-IPO owners and other large customers; the impact of changing market conditions on our forward pricing program; the significant risks and hazards against which we may not be fully insured; unanticipated consequences related to future expansion of our business; our inability to expand our business, including that due to the significant resources that could be required; potential liabilities and expenditures related to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations; our inability to obtain or maintain required permits and governmental approvals; acts of terrorism; difficulties in securing the raw materials we use; changes in global fertilizer supply and demand; loss of key members of management; inability to meet financial reporting and other reporting requirements as a public company; and the other risks and uncertainties included from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nitrogen Fertilizer Business
Includes gas purchases and realized gains and losses on derivatives.
(1)
      
(2)  Total production at Donaldsonville and Medicine Hat, including the 34% interest of Westco, our joint venture partner in Canadian Fertilizers Limited.
Gross ammonia production, including amounts subsequently upgraded on-site into urea and/or UAN.
(3)
      
 
Phosphate Fertilizer Business
Ois the basic measure of the nutrient content in phosphate fertilizer products.
(1)   P
2
5
CF Industries Holdings, Inc. Selected Financial Information Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Disclosure Items
Reconciliation of net earnings to adjusted net earnings:
 
 
In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), reported net earnings includes the after-tax impacts of unusual items and non-recurring items.   We believe that by adjusting reported net earnings to exclude the effects of these items, the resulting earnings are on a basis more comparable with other periods presented.    Adjusted net earnings is not a recognized term under GAAP, and does not purport to be an alternative to net income, operating income or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
Reconciliation of net earnings to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA:
 
(a) To adjust for amount included in both interest and amortization.
 
EBITDA is defined as net earnings (loss) plus interest expense (income)net, income tax provision (benefit) and depreciation, depletion and amortization. We have presented EBITDA because our management believes that it is frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies in our industry, some of which present EBITDA when reporting their results. We regularly evaluate our performance as compared to other companies in our industry that have different financing and capital structures and/or tax rates by using EBITDA.
EBITDA includes the after-tax impacts of unusual and non-recurring items.   We believe that by adjusting EBITDA to exclude the effects of these items, the resulting EBITDA are on a basis more comparable with other periods presented.
 
Reconciliation of cash provided by operating activities to adjusted free cash flow:
 
Adjusted free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less: customer advances  net, changes in working capital (accounts receivable, margin deposits, inventories, accounts payable and accrued expenses, and product exchanges  net), capital expenditures, distributions to minority interest, and dividends paid on common stock.  We believe that adjusting principally for the swings in non-cash operating working capital items due to seasonality, additions to property, plant and equipment, and distributions to owners assists in the long-term assessment of liquidity and financial strength.  We use adjusted free cash flow as a supplemental financial measure in the evaluation of liquidity and financial strength.
 
Reconciliation of debt to net debt (cash):
 
 
Net debt (cash) is defined as total debt minus cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, plus customer advances.  We include customer advances in this calculation to reflect the liability associated with our obligations to supply fertilizer in the future, which offsets cash received in the form of customer advances.  Net debt (cash) does not include contractual obligations of Canadian Fertilizers Limited to distribute its earnings to its minority interest holder.  We use net debt (cash) in the evaluation of our capital structure.
 


