FILE:CF/CF-8K-20060224060859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
Form 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
February 23, 2006
CF Industries Holdings, Inc.
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Item 2.02.              Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 23, 2006, CF Industries Holdings, Inc. issued a press release announcing its results for the  quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)           Exhibits.
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS
NEWS
NEWS
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter and 2005 Highlights
 
Fourth quarter net sales decreased 3 percent to $463.0 million, compared to 2004 fourth quarter.  Volume declined 16 percent versus year ago quarter.
 - 
                 
Quarter's gross margin declined significantly from 2004's fourth quarter, reflecting hurricane-related high natural gas costs and losses on derivatives associated with discontinuance of hedge accounting.
 - 
                 
Calendar year 2005 net sales increased 16 percent to $1.9 billion.
 - 
                 
Full year net loss of $39.0 million due primarily to IPO-related items.  Adjusted net earnings for 2005 rose nearly 15 percent to $77.5 million.
 - 
                 
Financial position and liquidity remain strong.
 - 
                 
Reduced natural gas prices should permit increased first quarter production levels.
 - 
                 
 
 CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: CF) today reported a net loss of $12.8 million, or 23 cents per common share, for the fourth quarter of 2005.  The loss, due primarily to increased costs and reduced customer demand in a high natural gas cost environment, compares to net earnings of $18.1 million, or 33 cents per common share on a pro forma basis, for the fourth quarter of 2004.
Long Grove, IL  February 23, 2006
For the year, CF Industries Holdings, Inc. reported a net loss of $39.0 million, or $0.71 per common share on a pro forma basis.  In 2004, net income was $67.7 million, or $1.23 per share on a pro forma basis.  Sales for 2005 totaled $1.9 billion, up 16 percent from approximately $1.7 billion in 2004.
 
Fourth quarter 2005 results reflected several significant items, including accounting changes, as well as the absence of hedge-related gains that were recognized during the third quarter.  The full year results included the previously reported one-time charges resulting from the company's initial public offering in August.
 
Calendar Year 2005 Results
 
The 2005 net loss was primarily the result of several previously disclosed items related to the company's August initial public offering.  These items included a $99.9 million non-cash charge to income tax expense to establish a 100 percent valuation allowance against net operating loss carryforwards generated when the company operated as a cooperative for tax purposes, and a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $28.3 million.
 
"In spite of hurricane-induced challenges, CF Industries produced strong operating and financial results in 2005," explained Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Stephen R. Wilson.  "The company's net earnings, adjusted for the one-time charges associated with our IPO, actually increased by nearly 15 percent to $77.5 million for 2005, compared to 2004," he added.
 
The year saw significantly higher prices for all of the company's fertilizer products.  "In addition, through the third quarter, demand was ahead of strong 2004 levels for both the nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer businesses," Wilson noted.
 
Fourth Quarter Results
 
"In the fourth quarter, the company saw improved financial performance in its phosphate fertilizer business compared to the 2004 fourth quarter.  Despite reduced volume, our phosphate gross margin increased versus a year ago.  In our nitrogen fertilizer business, severe post-hurricane natural gas price increases drove fertilizer prices to levels at which customers simply would not make major purchases," Wilson said.
 
During the fourth quarter, the average daily market price of natural gas was nearly double the level in 2004's fourth quarter.  As a result, production rates were reduced significantly at the company's Donaldsonville, Louisiana nitrogen complex, where output averaged approximately 50 percent of capacity for the quarter, with associated margin implications.
 
"The fourth quarter was especially challenging, but I believe CF Industries coped effectively with unprecedented cost increases and their resulting impact on customer demand.  We utilized the flexibility inherent in our Donaldsonville complex and our
distribution system to manage through this make versus buy' environment," Wilson pointed out.
 
"Despite these significant challenges, we ended the quarter and 2005 in strong financial condition," Wilson said.
 
Other Significant Items
 
The fourth quarter's actual results do not reflect $14.1 million in accelerated hedge gains that were recorded in the third quarter, as required under SFAS 133, pursuant to the company's decision after the late summer hurricanes to reduce its purchases of natural gas in the fourth quarter.  The effect of pulling forward this gain, which normally would have been applicable to the fourth quarter, was excluded from the company's presentation of third quarter adjusted net income.
 
The company's fourth quarter results also reflected the effects of a number of other significant items.
 
During the third quarter and throughout the fourth quarter, volatility in natural gas prices reduced the company's ability to predict its future natural gas requirements.  Consequently, the company decided that it would no longer classify natural gas derivatives as cash flow hedges, discontinuing hedge accounting.  As a result of the reduction in natural gas prices that occurred late in the fourth quarter, the company's fourth quarter cost of sales included $9.3 million in unrealized losses on natural gas derivative positions that were in place at year end.  Absent the decision to discontinue hedge accounting, these unrealized losses would have been deferred.  Future realized and unrealized gains and losses will be recognized in cost of sales at the end of each accounting period.
 
Despite this change in accounting treatment, the execution and attendant economic consequences of the company's hedging activities will not change in that it will still employ derivatives to lock in a substantial portion of the margin on forward pricing program (FPP) sales.
 
Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2005, the company recorded asset retirement obligations due to implementation of (FIN) No. 47  "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations" and a related charge for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, reducing net earnings in 2005 by $2.8 million.
 
Nitrogen Fertilizer Business
 
Nitrogen fertilizer net sales for the fourth quarter totaled $358.2 million, comparable to the $360.4 million in 2004's fourth quarter.  Higher selling prices for all nitrogen products were offset by reduced volumes compared to the year-earlier quarter.
Sales volume for the fourth quarter was nearly 1.5 million tons, down 15 percent from the more than 1.7 million tons of nitrogen products sold in 2004's fourth quarter.
 
As previously announced, CF Industries reduced fourth quarter production levels and increased purchases of nitrogen products to take advantage of more favorable economics.
 
During the quarter, the gross margin on nitrogen fertilizer sales was negative at $(6.4) million, compared to a positive margin of $65.6 million in 2004's fourth quarter, due primarily to the effects of high natural gas costs, higher costs for purchased product, lower capacity utilization, and the impacts of natural gas hedging described earlier.
 
Nitrogen fertilizer sales under the company's FPP were 1.1 million tons during the quarter, representing 77 percent of total nitrogen volume.  In 2004's fourth quarter, the company sold 1.2 million tons, or 72 percent, of its nitrogen fertilizer under the FPP.
 
For calendar year 2005, total nitrogen sales were $1.47 billion, up 15 percent from strong 2004 levels; volume was 6.4 million tons, down 3 percent; and gross margin was $172.9 million, down 11 percent.
 
"After a strong performance during the year's first three quarters, our nitrogen business saw volumes and margins fall during the fourth quarter.  Like most domestic producers, we cut production significantly during the quarter," the CF Industries CEO added.
 
Phosphate Fertilizer Business
 
Despite lower net sales in the fourth quarter of 2005, phosphate margins improved compared to a year ago.  For the quarter, phosphate fertilizer net sales totaled $104.8 million, down 11 percent from 2004's fourth quarter, as lower sales volumes were partially offset by higher average selling prices.
 
Phosphate sales volume totaled 446,000 tons for the quarter, down substantially from fourth quarter 2004.  Contributing to the decrease were lower operating levels at the company's Plant City (Florida) phosphate complex, due largely to hurricane-related disruptions to supplies of sulfur, a key raw material.  In light of the disruption, the timing of planned maintenance activities (turnarounds) was accelerated to coincide with reduced sulfur availability.  Sulfur availability returned to normal during the quarter.
 
For the fourth quarter of 2005, the gross margin on phosphate fertilizer sales was $8.7 million, compared to $5.7 million in 2004's fourth quarter.  The margin increase primarily reflected the impact of higher selling prices during the quarter for the company's phosphate products.  Phosphate sales under the FPP were approximately 175,000 tons, or 40 percent of total phosphate sales, compared to approximately 155,000 tons or 28 percent of total phosphate sales in 2004's fourth quarter.
For calendar year 2005, phosphate volume was 2.0 million tons, up 6 percent; sales were $438.7 million, up 16 percent; and gross margin was $36.3 million, up 63 percent.
 
"Despite the fourth quarter's reduced volumes, we had a strong year in phosphate in 2005, with net sales up 16 percent thanks to higher average selling prices and increased sales volume.  The year also saw substantial sales to export markets," Wilson explained.  "Those stronger fundamentals generated a significant improvement in gross margin for the phosphate business for the year," he added.
 
Liquidity and Financial Position
 
At December 31, 2005, the company's gross cash and short-term investments were $216.7 million, and its $250 million senior secured revolving credit facility was undrawn.  Under the facility's borrowing base formula, there was approximately $192.6 million in credit available to the company at December 31, 2005.
 
The fourth quarter's financial position was affected by significant changes in working capital, notably the impact of higher nitrogen product costs in inventory.
 
During the year, the company's strong financial performance enabled it to repay all of its outstanding term debt, which stood at $254.8 million at December 31, 2004.  It ended the year with negative net debt (i.e., net cash) of $80.9 million, compared to positive net debt of $51.0 million a year ago.  (Net debt is defined as debt, less cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, plus customer advances.)
 
Dividend Declaration
 
On February 17, 2006, the company's Board of Directors declared a quarterly $0.02 per share dividend on the common stock, payable March 15, 2006 to shareholders of record March 6, 2006.
 
Outlook
 
"We have seen increased customer orders, compared to the fourth quarter levels of activity, especially for nitrogen products," CF Industries' Wilson explained.  "With natural gas prices having declined significantly and fertilizer prices remaining relatively strong, we have increased production at our Donaldsonville nitrogen complex," he noted.
 
As of February 22, 2006, FPP bookings for all of 2006 stood at more than 1.4 million tons, compared to approximately 2.1 million tons at the comparable point last year.  However, the 2006 total is up by approximately 1.2 million tons from the 220,000 tons that had been booked under the FPP for 2006 as of September 30, 2005.
"Due to the high cost of farm inputs, including fertilizer, leading forecasters such as Doane Agricultural Services Company have predicted that U.S. planted corn acreage could decline by nearly 2 million acres to 79.8 million in 2006," Wilson noted.
 
"However, the outlook for corn prices has improved over the last few months as record demand for U.S. corn, coupled with weather problems in Latin America, has helped push the market above early season lows.  This, in turn, should have a positive impact on U.S. fertilizer demand this spring," Wilson added.
 
Conference Call
 
CF Industries will hold a conference call to discuss its fourth-quarter and full year results at 10:00 a.m. EST on Friday, February 24, 2006.  Information on accessing the call is posted on the Investor Relations section of the company's Web site at www.cfindustries.com.
 
Company Information
 
CF Industries Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Long Grove, Illinois, is the holding company for the operations of CF Industries, Inc.  CF Industries, Inc. is a major producer and distributor of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer products.  CF Industries operates world-scale nitrogen fertilizer plants in Donaldsonville, Louisiana and Medicine Hat, Alberta, Canada; conducts phosphate mining and manufacturing operations in Central Florida; and distributes fertilizer products through a system of terminals, warehouses, and associated transportation equipment located primarily in the midwestern United States.
 
Note Regarding Use of Pro Forma Information
 
The IPO and related reorganization transaction did not change the nature of CF Industries' business or operations.  As a result, the company believes that current and historical financial statements are comparable.  Accordingly, financial statements are presented on a historical basis, with weighted-average shares outstanding and earnings (loss) per share information presented on a pro forma basis with respect to pre-IPO financial information.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Certain statements contained in this release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities laws.  All statements in this release, other than those relating to our historical information or current condition, are forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  These risks and uncertainties include: the relatively expensive and volatile cost of North American natural gas; the cyclical nature of our business; the nature of our products as global commodities; intense global competition in the consolidating markets in which we operate; conditions in the U.S.
agricultural industry; weather conditions; our inability to accurately predict seasonal demand for our products; the concentration of our sales to pre-IPO owners and other large customers; the impact of changing market conditions on our forward pricing program; the significant risks and hazards involved in fertilizer manufacturing; unanticipated consequences related to future expansion of our business; our inability to expand our business, including that due to the significant resources that could be required; potential liabilities and expenditures related to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations; our inability to obtain or maintain required permits and governmental approvals; acts of terrorism; difficulties in securing the raw materials we use; changes in global fertilizer supply and demand and the other risks and uncertainties included from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nitrogen Fertilizer Business
 
 
(1)  Total production of the Donaldsonville and Medicine Hat facilities, including the 34% interest of Westco, our joint venture partner in Canadian Fertilizers Limited.
 
(2)  Gross ammonia production, including amounts subsequently upgraded on-site into urea and/or UAN.
 
Phosphate Fertilizer Business
 
 
(1)  PO is the basic measure of the nutrient content in phosphate fertilizer products.
2
5
 
Reconciliation of net earnings to adjusted net earnings:
 
 
In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), reported net earnings includes the after-tax impacts of unusual and non-recurring items.  We believe that by adjusting reported net earnings to exclude the effects of these items, the resulting earnings are on a basis more comparable with prior periods presented.  Adjusted net earnings is not a recognized term under GAAP, and does not purport to be an alternative to net income, operating income or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP.
 
Reconciliation of net earnings to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA:
 
 
(a) To adjust for amount included in both interest and amortization.
 
EBITDA is defined as net earnings (loss) plus interestnet, income tax expense (benefit) including taxes on the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle and depreciation, depletion and amortization. We have presented EBITDA because our management believes that it is frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies in our industry, some of which present EBITDA when reporting their results. We regularly evaluate our performance as compared to other companies in our industry that have different financing and capital structures and/or tax rates by using EBITDA. EBITDA is not a recognized term under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and does not purport to be an alternative to net income, operating income or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP. Because not all companies use identical calculations, this presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies.
 
EBITDA includes the after-tax impacts of unusual and non-recurring items.   We believe that by adjusting EBITDA to exclude the effects of these items, the resulting EBITDA are on a basis more comparable with prior periods presented.
 
Reconciliation of cash provided by (used in) operating activities to adjusted free cash flow:
 
 
Adjusted free cash flow is defined as cash flow provided by (used in) operating activities less: customer advances  net, changes in working capital (accounts receivable, margin deposits, inventories, accounts payable and accrued expenses, and product exchanges  net), capital expenditures, distributions to minority interest, and dividends paid on common stock.  We use adjusted free cash flow as a supplemental financial measure in our evaluation of liquidity and financial strength.  We believe that adjusting principally for the swings in non-cash operating working capital items due to seasonality, additions to property, plant and equipment, and distributions to owners assists in the long-term assessment of liquidity and financial strength.  We also believe that this measurement is useful as an indicator of our ability to service debt, meet other payment obligations and make strategic investments.   Adjusted free cash flow is not a recognized term under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and does not represent residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures.
 
Reconciliation of debt to net debt:
 
 
Net debt is defined as total debt minus cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, plus customer advances.  We include customer advances in this calculation to reflect the liability associated with our obligations to supply fertilizer in the future, which offsets cash received in the form of customer advances.  Net debt does not include contractual obligations of Canadian Fertilizers Limited to distribute its earnings to its minority interest holder.  We use net debt in the evaluation of our capital structure.  Net debt is not a recognized term under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and does not purport to be an alternative to debt calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 


