FILE:CF/CF-8K-20070730174622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Form 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
July 30, 2007
CF Industries Holdings, Inc.
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(847) 405-2400
(Former name or former address if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
       Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
       Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
       Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
       Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02.              Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 30, 2007, CF Industries Holdings, Inc. issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2007. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits.
 
2
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
4
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS
NEWS
NEWS
 
 
 
Second Quarter Highlights
Volume rose by 6 percent over year-earlier quarter, as increased nitrogen volume more than offset modest decline in phosphate
                 
Net sales rose to $848.9 million, up 23 percent over 2006 second quarter
                 
Operating earnings nearly doubled from 2006 quarter to $159.4 million
                 
Net earnings of $93.6 million, or $1.65 per diluted share, compared to $42.6 million, or $0.77 per diluted share, in 2006's second quarter
                 
Reported second quarter 2007 results included $36.3 million in non-cash pre-tax unrealized losses, or $0.41 per diluted share on an after-tax basis, from mark-to-market adjustments on natural gas derivatives associated with company's Forward Pricing Program (FPP), compared to $11.7 million in non-cash pre-tax unrealized gains, or $0.13 per diluted share on an after-tax basis, in previous year's second quarter
                 
Financial position and liquidity continued to strengthen, as cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased to $565.6 million
                 
1
 
Company signs agreements for preliminary engineering for gasification project at its Donaldsonville, Louisiana Nitrogen Complex and to explore development of uranium recovery facility at its Plant City, Florida Phosphate Complex
                 
In June, the company attained 24 consecutive months without a lost time accident
                 
First Half Highlights and Outlook
Net sales totaled $1.32 billion, up 19 percent from $1.11 billion in 2006's first half
                 
Operating earnings totaled $249.5 million, a five-fold increase over the first half of 2006
                 
Net earnings of $150.8 million, or $2.67 per diluted share, compared to $18.0 million, or $0.33 per diluted share, in 2006's first half
                 
Company entered third quarter with substantial forward orders at attractive margins and expects favorable market conditions to continue in 2007's second half
                 
DEERFIELD, Illinois  (Business Wire)  July 30, 2007: CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:CF) today reported a substantial increase in second quarter and first half net earnings compared to year-earlier periods, driven by significantly improved pricing, increased volume, and strong operating performances in its nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer businesses.
Second Quarter Comparisons
Net earnings totaled $93.6 million, or $1.65 per diluted share, more than double the $42.6 million, or $0.77 per diluted share, reported in the second quarter of 2006.  Net sales were $848.9 million, up 23 percent from $688.7 million in the year-earlier quarter.  Volume totaled 2.75 million tons, up 6 percent from 2.58 million tons in the second quarter of 2006.  [Refer to Results of Operations and Segment Data for explanation of correction to previously presented data.]
"This spring's robust agricultural markets  driven largely by an unprecedented increase of nearly 19 percent in this nation's planted corn acreage  created a substantial opportunity for CF Industries.  Solid operating performance permitted us to capitalize on that opportunity and achieve financial results significantly improved over a very good year-earlier second quarter," explained Stephen R. Wilson, chairman and chief executive officer of CF Industries Holdings, Inc.
2
 
The year-on-year comparison included a non-cash pre-tax $48.0 million unfavorable swing due to non-cash mark-to-market adjustments on natural gas derivatives, as CF Industries reported $36.3 million in non-cash pre-tax unrealized losses, compared to $11.7 million in non-cash pre-tax unrealized gains during the year-earlier second quarter.
The strong financial performance in this year's second quarter resulted from high operating rates, smooth logistical performance, and responsiveness to customer requirements.  Heavy spring rains throughout much of the U.S. Corn Belt delayed planting in a number of states.  That led some prognosticators to worry that, despite farmers' reported near-record corn planting intentions, actual acreage could fall short of expectations.  However, once weather cooperated and planting began, acreage turned out even higher than originally anticipated.
"For CF Industries, our well positioned inventories and flexible distribution system enabled us to deliver excellent results in the face of this rapidly changing business environment.  In particular, we were able to take advantage of heavy ammonia demand during the late spring period, which included significant side dress application," Wilson added.
First Half Comparisons
First half net earnings were $150.8 million, or $2.67 per diluted share, compared to $18.0 million, or $0.33 per diluted share, in 2006's first half.  Net sales totaled $1.32 billion, up 19 percent from $1.11 billion in the 2006 first half.  Operating earnings for the current first half totaled $249.5 million, compared to $48.1 million in the year-earlier half.
The first half comparison was affected by the company's $24.6 million net loss in 2006's first quarter, when high natural gas costs, uncertainty in agricultural markets, and other factors negatively affected the domestic nitrogen industry's performance.
Nitrogen Fertilizer Business
The company's nitrogen segment continued to strengthen during the second quarter, as growing demand by ethanol, feed, and other markets led farmers to plant the nation's largest corn crop since the 1940s.
Second quarter net sales for nitrogen totaled $671.5 million, up 22 percent from $550.8 million in the year-earlier quarter.  Nitrogen sales volume was 2.2 million tons, up 10 percent from 2.0 million tons in 2006's second quarter.
The gross margin on nitrogen was $122.8 million, or 18 percent of sales, which was negatively affected by a $36.3 million non-cash pre-tax unrealized loss, or $0.41 per diluted share on an after-tax basis, resulting from mark-to-market adjustments on natural gas derivatives.  Mark-to-market adjustments represent the unrealized, non-cash gain or loss, measured at quarter's end, on natural gas positions.  CF Industries
3
 
establishes these positions to fix the largest cost component for nitrogen fertilizer that it expects to produce to support the company's fixed-price business.
"Our nitrogen segment delivered on the potential we saw beginning in this year's first quarter.  Selling prices increased, volumes were up substantially for ammonia and UAN, and the segment's margins improved," Wilson noted.
The average ammonia selling price rose from $298 per ton in 2007's first quarter to $390 in the second quarter, the price for urea rose from $294 per ton in the first quarter to $331 in the second, and the urea ammonium nitrate solution (UAN) price rose from $186 per ton in the first quarter to $206 per ton.
With the exception of normal maintenance activities, the company's two nitrogen complexes operated at capacity during the quarter.
Nitrogen fertilizer sales under the company's FPP totaled 1.56 million tons during the quarter, representing 70 percent of total nitrogen volume.  In 2006's second quarter, nitrogen FPP sales were 1.00 million tons, representing 49 percent of total nitrogen volume.
Phosphate Fertilizer Business
Second quarter phosphate prices rose very strongly, up over both year-earlier and first quarter levels, reflecting improved fundamentals in domestic and world phosphate markets.  Second quarter 2007 average selling prices were $349 per ton for diammonium phosphate (DAP) and $341 per ton for monoammonium phosphate (MAP), substantially higher than the $262 per ton for DAP and $269 per ton for MAP in the first quarter of 2007.
Phosphate net sales totaled $177.4 million for the second quarter, up 29 percent from $137.9 million in 2006's second quarter.  Improved phosphate pricing more than offset a modest decline in volume, as the company held product from the export market in anticipation of strong late quarter domestic sales.  Those sales did not fully materialize due to cool, damp spring conditions in portions of the Corn Belt.  Gross margin on phosphate sales for the second quarter totaled $54.8 million, or 31 percent, compared to $11.2 million, or 8 percent, in the second quarter of 2006.
With the exception of normal maintenance activities, the company's phosphate fertilizer complexes operated at capacity during the quarter.
During the second quarter, phosphate FPP sales totaled 220,000 tons, or 43 percent of total segment sales.  During 2006's second quarter, phosphate FPP sales were 51,000 tons, or 9 percent of total phosphate sales.
"Phosphate demand is growing globally and capacity additions are expected to be modest through at least 2010.  So far this year, this relationship has led to rising prices
4
 
and permitted us to deliver exceptionally strong performance in our phosphate business," explained Wilson.
Strategic Nitrogen and Phosphate Projects
The company also announced that it has taken important steps to advance two strategic initiatives.
) from a mixture of petroleum coke and coal.  This would replace hydrogen currently produced from natural gas at two of the complex's existing four anhydrous ammonia plants.
The company has signed an agreement with Uhde Corporation of America, a company within ThyssenKrupp USA Inc., to proceed with preliminary engineering, including a Pre-FEED [Front-End Engineering and Design] study to develop a gasification project at CF Industries' Donaldsonville, Louisiana Nitrogen Complex.  The proposed facility would produce hydrogen and carbon dioxide (CO
2
The company has evaluated several gasification technologies for the proposed facility and has made a preliminary technology selection.
"We have identified the reduction of CF Industries' dependence on North American natural gas as a strategic priority.  This gasification project at North America's largest nitrogen complex has the potential to reduce that dependence significantly and to provide important cost and operating advantages," Wilson explained.
The Pre-FEED study is expected to require from four to six months to complete, at which time, if project economics confirm expectations, CF Industries would proceed with the FEED study and then detailed engineering.  Construction could begin during the second half of 2009, which would lead to commercial operation in late 2012.
Uhde, a technology-focused engineering organization, is a world leader for both gasification and ammonia technologies.
Wilson also announced that CF Industries and NUKEM, Inc. have signed an Exclusivity Agreement to explore the feasibility of developing and constructing a uranium recovery facility at CF Industries' Plant City Phosphate Complex in Plant City, Florida.
O, a uranium compound used in electric power generation.  The compound would be produced as a by-product of CF Industries' phosphate fertilizer operations.  If contracts can be obtained that support the project economics, the companies plan to obtain project financing and permits and proceed with detailed engineering of the proposed facility.
The two companies are currently seeking long-term supply contracts from U.S. electric utilities who would purchase approximately 900,000 pounds annually of U
3
8
If the companies undertake the project, production could begin within three to four years.
5
 
Safety Performance
In June of 2007, CF Industries completed a 24-month period without a lost time accident at any of its facilities.
"We are very proud of this company's safety performance.  This important achievement affirms the full commitment each CF Industries employee has to safety as our highest priority," Wilson noted.
Liquidity and Financial Position
At June 30, 2007, the company's cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $565.6 million, with negative net debt (i.e., net cash) of $393.3 million at June 30, 2007, compared to negative net debt of $153.5 million at June 30, 2006 and $161.5 million at March 31, 2007.  The company's $250.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility was undrawn.
Outlook
"The strong spring fertilizer application season left the domestic industry with inventories at generally low levels, especially for ammonia and UAN.  During the third quarter, we expect to rebuild our inventories, positioning supply in anticipation of a strong fall season," Wilson noted.
Looking to that fall season, the CF Industries executive is optimistic that the substantially increased revenues farmers anticipate when spring plantings are harvested, coupled with continued growth in demand for corn in domestic and export markets, could lead to strong fall fertilizer demand to support the 2008 planting season.  Reports from throughout the Corn Belt suggest that most crops are in good to excellent condition and corn prices remain at attractive levels for farmers.
The company also expects nitrogen markets to benefit as some farmers, mindful of planting delays experienced during this year's cool, wet spring, should increase fall ammonia applications in preparation for next spring's planting.
Turning to the phosphate market, Wilson believes that underlying demand for phosphate remains strong going into the fall season.  Beyond that, this year's spring weather pattern likely prevented farmers from applying as much phosphate as planned, which should encourage good fall application.  "This combination of factors could produce a very good fall for our phosphate business," he added.
During the third quarter, CF Industries expects to take a complex-wide turnaround at its Medicine Hat, Alberta nitrogen complex.  "This work includes upgrading the electrical system at the complex and is part of our ongoing commitment to maintain and enhance
6
 
all of our plants to state-of-the-art condition.  We're well positioned to carry out the work while meeting commitments to customers," Wilson explained.
Wilson cautioned that, as always, the company's second half performance could be affected by weather conditions affecting the fall application season and natural gas price spikes, as well as by increased product imports and other factors.
FPP Update
As of July 26, 2007, FPP bookings for the remainder of 2007 stood at nearly 2.1 million tons, up substantially from the nearly 1.1 million tons for the remainder of 2006 at this time last year.
Dividend Payment
On July 26, 2007, CF Industries Holdings, Inc. reported that its Board of Directors had approved payment of the regular quarterly dividend of $0.02 per common share, payable August 31, 2007 to stockholders of record on August 15, 2007.
Conference Call
CF Industries will hold a conference call to discuss second quarter results at 10:00 a.m. EDT on Tuesday, July 31, 2007. Investors can access the call through the Investor Relations section of the company's Web site at www.cfindustries.com, as well as find call-in information there.
Company Information
CF Industries Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is the holding company for the operations of CF Industries, Inc.  CF Industries, Inc. is a major producer and distributor of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer products.  CF Industries operates world-scale nitrogen fertilizer plants in Donaldsonville, Louisiana and Medicine Hat, Alberta, Canada; conducts phosphate mining and manufacturing operations in Central Florida; and distributes fertilizer products through a system of terminals, warehouses, and associated transportation equipment located primarily in the midwestern United States.
Note Regarding Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The company reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures provide additional meaningful information regarding the company's performance, liquidity, financial strength and capital structure.  The non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.  In addition, because not all companies use identical calculations, the non-GAAP financial measures included in this earnings release may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other
7
 
companies.  Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP are provided in tables accompanying this news release.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Certain statements contained in this release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities laws.  All statements in this release, other than those relating to historical information or current condition, are forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  These risks and uncertainties include: the relatively expensive and volatile cost of North American natural gas; the cyclical nature of our business; our history of losses; the nature of our products as global commodities; intense global competition in the consolidating markets in which we operate; conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry; weather conditions; our inability to accurately predict seasonal demand for our products; the concentration of our sales with certain large customers; the impact of changing market conditions on our forward pricing program; the significant risks and hazards against which we may not be fully insured; reliance on third party transportation providers; unanticipated consequences related to future expansion of our business; our inability to expand our business, including the significant resources that could be required; potential liabilities and expenditures related to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations; our inability to obtain or maintain required permits and governmental approvals; acts of terrorism; difficulties in securing the raw materials we use; changes in global fertilizer supply and demand; loss of key members of management and professional staff; and the other risks and uncertainties included from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
8
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
   We have corrected an error in our previously presented results of operations to include in net sales amounts billed to our customers for shipping and handling.  These amounts were previously included as a reduction in cost of sales.  The correction did not impact any other financial statement line item or per-share amount.
(1)
 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION SUMMARIZED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION SEGMENT DATA
Nitrogen Fertilizer Business
We have corrected an error in our previously presented nitrogen segment data to include in net sales amounts billed to our customers for shipping and handling.  These amounts were previously included as a reduction in cost of sales.  The correction did not change our previously presented gross margin, but did change our previously presented gross margin percentage and average selling prices.
(1)  
Includes gas purchases and realized gains and losses on derivatives.
(2)  
Total production at Donaldsonville and Medicine Hat, including the 34% interest of Westco, our joint  venture partner in Canadian Fertilizers Limited.
(3)  
Gross ammonia production, including amounts subsequently upgraded on-site into urea and/or UAN.
(4)  
 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION SEGMENT DATA
Phosphate Fertilizer Business
We have corrected an error in our previously presented phosphate segment data to include in net sales amounts billed to our customers for shipping and handling.  These amounts were previously included as a reduction in cost of sales.  The correction did not change our previously presented gross margin, but did change our previously presented gross margin percentage and average selling prices.
(1)  
PO is the basic measure of the nutrient content in phosphate fertilizer products.
(2)  
2
5
 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP DISCLOSURE ITEMS
Reconciliation of net earnings to EBITDA:
To adjust for amount included in both interest and amortization.
(a)  
EBITDA is defined as net earnings (loss) plus interest expense (income)net, income tax provision (benefit) including taxes on the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle and depreciation, depletion and amortization.  We have presented EBITDA because our management believes that it is frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies in our industry, some of which present EBITDA when reporting their results. We regularly evaluate our performance as compared to other companies in our industry that have different financing and capital structures and/or tax rates by using EBITDA.
 
 
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP DISCLOSURE ITEMS
Reconciliation of cash provided by operating activities to adjusted free cash flow:
 
Adjusted free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less: customer advances  net, changes in working capital (accounts receivable, margin deposits, inventories, accounts payable, accrued expenses, income taxes, and product exchanges  net), capital expenditures, distributions to minority interest, and dividends paid on common stock.  We believe that adjusting principally for the swings in non-cash operating working capital items due to seasonality, additions to property, plant and equipment, and distributions to owners assists in the assessment of liquidity and financial strength.  We use adjusted free cash flow as a supplemental financial measure in the evaluation of liquidity and financial strength.
Reconciliation of debt to net debt (cash):
 
Net debt (cash) is defined as total debt minus cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, plus customer advances.  We include customer advances in this calculation to reflect the liability associated with our obligations to supply fertilizer in the future, which offsets cash received in the form of customer advances.  Net debt (cash) does not include Canadian Fertilizers Limited's distributions of earnings to its minority interest holder.  We use net debt (cash) in the evaluation of our capital structure.
 


