FILE:CF/CF-8K-20090427150505.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
April 21, 2009
 
CF Industries Holdings, Inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  
(847) 405-2400
(Former name or former address if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On April 21, 2009, at the annual meeting of stockholders of CF Industries Holdings, Inc. ("CF"), the stockholders of CF approved adoption of the CF Industries Holdings, Inc. 2009 Equity and Incentive Plan. The 2009 Equity and Incentive Plan permits the grant of options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights and other stock or cash-based awards to officers, employees, consultants and independent contractors of CF. A total of 3,900,000 shares of CF common stock has been reserved for issuance under the plan (plus shares which are subject to awards under the CF Industries Holdings, Inc. 2005 Equity and Incentive Plan which expire or are forfeited without the issuance of common stock). The 2009 Equity and Incentive Plan will expire on April 21, 2019, unless terminated sooner by the CF Board of Directors. A description of the CF Industries Holdings, Inc. 2009 Equity and Incentive Plan is provided in CF's Definitive Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 16, 2009. The foregoing description of the 2009 Equity and Incentive Plan is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the plan, which is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.1. The form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Award Agreement for use under the 2009 Equity and Incentive Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
Name of Grantee:
 
Restricted Stock: [FMV of $65,000 on Grant Date] shares of Restricted Stock
 
Grant Date:
 
Vesting Date: The earlier to occur of the first annual meeting of Company shareholders occurring after the Grant Date or one-year following the Grant Date, subject to earlier acceleration as described herein.
 
Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms as defined in the CF Industries Holdings, Inc. 2009 Equity and Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Please review this Award Agreement and promptly return a signed copy to Wendy Jablow Spertus in order to render the grant effective.
 
1.
                                      
You have been granted the shares of Restricted Stock shown above, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement.
 
2.
                                      
From the Grant Date until the Vesting Date, you may not sell, assign, transfer, donate, pledge or otherwise dispose of the Restricted Stock unless such restrictions shall lapse prior to the Vesting Date as described herein.
 
3.
                                      
Each certificate representing Restricted Stock shall bear the following legend:
 
THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS UPON TRANSFER AS SET FORTH IN AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND THE SHAREHOLDER, A COPY OF WHICH IS ON FILE WITH THE COMPANY.
 
You shall be entitled to have such legend removed from such certificate when the restrictions referred to in Section 2 with respect to the Restricted Stock have lapsed.
 
4.
                                      
Restrictions on the Restricted Stock shall lapse on the Vesting Date, subject to earlier lapse upon a Change in Control as provided for in the Plan or as otherwise provided herein.
 
5.
                                      
If you shall resign from the Board for any reason prior to the date the restrictions on your Restricted Stock shall have lapsed, the Restricted Stock shall be forfeited. Notwithstanding the above, in the event of your death or disability (as determined by the Board) or in the event that you are not reappointed or reelected to the Board, the restrictions and forfeiture conditions applicable to the Restricted Stock shall lapse, and
the Restricted Stock shall be deemed fully vested in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
 
6.
                                      
During the restricted period, you shall have the right to vote Restricted Stock and to receive any dividends or distributions paid on such stock.
 
7.
                                      
The Plan is incorporated herein by reference. The Plan and this Award Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of you and the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof, and may not be modified except by means of a writing signed by you and the Company.  If there is a conflict between the terms and conditions of the Plan and the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall govern. This Award Agreement is governed by the internal substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of the State of Delaware.
 
By your signature and the signature of the Company's representative below, you and the Company agree that this Award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan, the terms of which are incorporated herein, and this Award Agreement. You have reviewed the Plan and this Award Agreement in their entirety, have had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing this Award Agreement and fully understands all provisions of the Plan and Award Agreement. You hereby agree to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Committee upon any questions relating to the Plan and Award Agreement. You further agree to notify the Company upon any change in the residence address indicated below.
 


