FILE:CF/CF-8K-20090225171625.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
February 25, 2009
 
CF Industries Holdings, Inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  
(847) 405-2400
 
 (Former name or former address if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
x
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01               Other Events.
 
conditioned on (i) CF Holdings terminating its bid for Terra Industries Inc. ("Terra"), (ii) negotiation of a definitive merger agreement between Agrium and CF Holdings, (iii) receipt of the necessary CF Holdings board and stockholder approvals, (iv) receipt of necessary regulatory approvals, (v) the absence of any material adverse changes to CF Holdings or its business and the continued operation of CF Holdings in the ordinary course of business and (vi) the opportunity for Agrium to conduct limited confirmatory due diligence on CF Holdings.
On February 25, 2009, the board of directors of CF Industries Holdings, Inc. ("CF Holdings") received a letter from Agrium Inc. ("Agrium") containing a non-binding unsolicited proposal by Agrium to acquire each share of outstanding capital stock of CF Holdings for one share of Agrium common stock and $31.70 in cash.  Agrium stated that its proposal was
 
Also on February 25, 2009, CF Holdings announced that its board of directors intends to evaluate Agrium's proposal carefully in the context of its strategic plans to create shareholder value, including CF Holdings offer to acquire Terra, and to make its determination regarding Agrium's proposal in due course.
 
Additional Information
 
This communication relates to the offer (the "Offer") by CF Industries Holdings, Inc. ("CF Industries") through its direct wholly-owned subsidiary, Composite Acquisition Corporation ("Composite Acquisition"), to exchange each issued and outstanding share of common stock (the "Terra common stock") of Terra Industries Inc. ("Terra") for 0.4235 shares of CF Industries common stock. This communication is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an offer to exchange, or a solicitation of an offer to exchange, Terra common stock, nor is it a substitute for the Tender Offer Statement on Schedule TO or the preliminary Prospectus/Offer to Exchange included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (including the Letter of Transmittal and related documents and as amended from time to time, the "Exchange Offer Documents") filed by CF Industries and Composite Acquisition with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on February 23, 2009. The Registration Statement has not yet become effective. The Offer is made only through the Exchange Offer Documents. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THESE DOCUMENTS AND OTHER RELEVANT MATERIALS AS THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
 
CF Industries and its wholly-owned subsidiary CF Composite, Inc. ("CF Composite") intend to file a proxy statement and other relevant materials with the SEC in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders of Terra. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF TERRA ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT AND OTHER RELEVANT MATERIALS CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
 
Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of any documents filed by CF Industries with the SEC through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.  Free
 
copies of any such documents can also be obtained by calling Innisfree M&A Incorporated toll-free at (877) 456-3507.
 
CF Industries, CF Composite, their respective directors and executive officers and the individuals nominated by CF Composite for election to Terra's board of directors may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Terra stockholders for Terra's 2009 annual meeting of stockholders. Information regarding such participants and a description of their direct and indirect interests in such solicitation, by securities holdings or otherwise, is contained in the Schedule 14A filed by CF Industries with the SEC on February 4, 2009. CF Industries and its directors and executive officers may also be deemed to be participants in any solicitation of proxies from Terra stockholders or CF Industries stockholders in respect of the proposed transaction with Terra. Information regarding CF Industries' directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement for its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 4, 2008, and a description of their direct and indirect interests in such solicitation, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the proxy statement/prospectus filed in connection with the proposed transaction with Terra.
 
All information in this press release concerning Terra, including its business, operations and financial results was obtained from public sources.  While CF Industries has no knowledge that any such information is inaccurate or incomplete, CF Industries has not had the opportunity to verify any of that information.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Certain statements contained in this communication may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities laws.  All statements in this press release, other than those relating to historical information or current condition, are forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  Risks and uncertainties relating to the proposed transaction include: Terra's failure to accept CF Industries' proposal and enter into definitive agreements to effect the transaction; our ability to obtain shareholder, antitrust, regulatory and other approvals on the proposed terms and schedule; uncertainty of the expected financial performance of CF Industries following completion of the proposed transaction; CF Industries' ability to achieve the cost-savings and synergies contemplated by the proposed transaction within the expected time frame; CF Industries' ability to promptly and effectively integrate the businesses of Terra and CF Industries; and disruption from the proposed transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers.  Additional risks and uncertainties include: the relatively expensive and volatile cost of North American natural gas; the cyclical nature of our business and the agricultural sector; changes in global fertilizer supply and demand and its impact on the selling price of our products; the nature of our products as global commodities; intense global competition in the consolidating markets in which we operate; conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry; weather conditions; our inability to accurately predict seasonal demand for our products; the concentration of our sales with certain large customers; the impact of changing market conditions on our forward pricing program; the reliance of our operations on a limited number of key facilities; the significant risks and hazards against which we may not be fully insured; reliance on third party transportation providers; unanticipated adverse consequences related to the expansion of our business; our inability to expand our business, including the significant resources that could be required; potential liabilities and expenditures related to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations; our inability to obtain or maintain required permits and governmental approvals or to meet financial assurance requirements; acts of terrorism;
 
difficulties in securing the supply and delivery of raw materials we use and increases in their costs; losses on our investments in securities; loss of key members of management and professional staff; recent global market and economic conditions, including credit markets; and the other risks and uncertainties included from time to time in our filings with the SEC.  We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


