FILE:CF/CF-8K-20090330143040.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
March 29, 2009
 
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
CF Industries Holdings, Inc.
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  
(847) 405-2400
 
(Former name or former address if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
x
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
On March 29, 2009, CF Industries Holdings, Inc. ("CF") issued a press release announcing that its board of directors has recommended that CF's stockholders reject Agrium Inc.'s revised offer to acquire all outstanding shares of CF. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS
NEWS
NEWS
 
 
DEERFIELD, IL, March 29, 2009  CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: CF) today announced that its board of directors has recommended that CF Industries stockholders reject Agrium Inc.'s (TSX: AGU) (NYSE: AGU) revised offer to acquire all outstanding shares of CF Industries.
 
Following a review of Agrium's offer with management and its legal and financial advisors, the CF Industries board of directors concluded that Agrium's offer is grossly inadequate, substantially undervalues CF Industries and is not in the best interests of CF Industries and its stockholders.
 
"Our board and management team are committed to providing superior value to our stockholders.  We strongly believe that continuing to pursue our long-term strategy, including our proposed business combination with Terra Industries, is the best way to do so," said Stephen R. Wilson, chairman, president and chief executive officer of CF Industries.  "We are confident that both our stockholders and Terra's stockholders support our proposed business combination.  We believe the Terra stockholders will show their support by voting for our proposed slate of directors at Terra's Annual Meeting, which is required to be held by May 15th under the Terra by-laws."
 
Morgan Stanley and Rothschild are acting as financial advisors and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is acting as legal counsel to CF Industries.
 
Contacts
Charles A. Nekvasil
Director, Public and Investor Relations
847-405-2515  CNekvasil@cfindustries.com
 
Susan Stillings / Monika Driscoll, 212-333-3810
Brunswick Group LLC
 
Alan Miller, 212-750-5833
Innisfree M&A Incorporated
About CF Industries
 
CF Industries Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is the holding company for the operations of CF Industries, Inc. CF Industries, Inc. is a major producer and distributor of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer products. CF Industries operates world-scale nitrogen fertilizer plants in Donaldsonville, Louisiana and Medicine Hat, Alberta, Canada; conducts phosphate mining and manufacturing operations in Central Florida; and distributes fertilizer products through a system of terminals, warehouses, and associated transportation equipment located primarily in the Midwestern United States. The company also owns a 50 percent interest in KEYTRADE AG, a global fertilizer trading organization headquartered near Zurich, Switzerland. Additional information on CF Industries is found on the company's website at www.cfindustries.com.
 
Additional Information
 
This press release is neither an offer to purchase nor the solicitation of an offer to sell any securities. On March 23, 2009, CF Industries Holdings, Inc. ("CF Industries") filed a Solicitation/Recommendation Statement on Schedule 14D-9 (as amended, the "Solicitation/Recommendation Statement"), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") with respect to the exchange offer commenced by Agrium Inc. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF CF INDUSTRIES ARE URGED TO READ THE SOLICITATION/RECOMMENDATION STATEMENT AND OTHER RELEVANT MATERIALS AS THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
 
This press release relates to the offer (the "Offer") by CF Industries through its direct wholly-owned subsidiary, Composite Acquisition Corporation ("Composite Acquisition"), to exchange each issued and outstanding share of common stock (the "Terra common stock") of Terra Industries Inc. ("Terra") for 0.4235 shares of CF Industries common stock. This press release is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an offer to exchange, or a solicitation of an offer to exchange, Terra common stock, nor is it a substitute for the Tender Offer Statement on Schedule TO or the preliminary Prospectus/Offer to Exchange included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (including the Letter of Transmittal and related documents and as amended from time to time, the "Exchange Offer Documents") filed by CF Industries and Composite Acquisition with the SEC on February 23, 2009. The Registration Statement has not yet become effective. The Offer is made only through the Exchange Offer Documents. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THESE DOCUMENTS AND OTHER RELEVANT MATERIALS AS THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
 
In connection with the solicitation of proxies for the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders of Terra, CF Industries and its wholly-owned subsidiary CF Composite, Inc. ("CF Composite") filed a revised preliminary proxy statement with the SEC on March 23, 2009 and intend to file a definitive proxy statement. When completed, the definitive proxy statement of CF Industries and CF Composite and accompanying proxy card will be mailed to stockholders of Terra. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF TERRA ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT AND OTHER RELEVANT MATERIALS CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY AS THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
 
Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of any documents filed by CF Industries with the SEC through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.  Free copies of any such documents can also be obtained by calling Innisfree M&A Incorporated toll-free at (877) 456-3507.
CF Industries, CF Composite, their respective directors and executive officers and the individuals nominated by CF Composite for election to Terra's board of directors are participants in the solicitation of proxies from Terra stockholders for Terra's 2009 annual meeting of stockholders. Information regarding such participants and a description of their direct and indirect interests in such solicitation, by securities holdings or otherwise, is contained in the revised preliminary proxy statement filed by CF Industries with the SEC on March 23, 2009. CF Industries and its directors and executive officers will be participants in any solicitation of proxies from Terra stockholders or CF Industries stockholders in respect of the proposed transaction with Terra. Information regarding CF Industries' directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement for its 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on March 16, 2009, and a description of their direct and indirect interests in such solicitation, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the proxy statement/prospectus filed in connection with the proposed transaction with Terra.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Certain statements contained in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements."  All statements in this press release, other than those relating to historical information or current condition, are forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.  Risks and uncertainties relating to the proposed transaction include: Terra's failure to accept CF Industries' proposal and enter into definitive agreements to effect the transaction; our ability to obtain shareholder, antitrust, regulatory and other approvals on the proposed terms and schedule; uncertainty of the expected financial performance of CF Industries following completion of the proposed transaction; CF Industries' ability to achieve the cost-savings and synergies contemplated by the proposed transaction within the expected time frame; CF Industries' ability to promptly and effectively integrate the businesses of Terra and CF Industries; and disruption from the proposed transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers.  Additional risks and uncertainties include: the relatively expensive and volatile cost of North American natural gas; the cyclical nature of our business and the agricultural sector; changes in global fertilizer supply and demand and its impact on the selling price of our products; the nature of our products as global commodities; intense global competition in the consolidating markets in which we operate; conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry; weather conditions; our inability to accurately predict seasonal demand for our products; the concentration of our sales with certain large customers; the impact of changing market conditions on our forward pricing program; the reliance of our operations on a limited number of key facilities; the significant risks and hazards against which we may not be fully insured; reliance on third party transportation providers; unanticipated adverse consequences related to the expansion of our business; our inability to expand our business, including the significant resources that could be required; potential liabilities and expenditures related to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations; our inability to obtain or maintain required permits and governmental approvals or to meet financial assurance requirements; acts of terrorism; difficulties in securing the supply and delivery of raw materials we use and increases in their costs; losses on our investments in securities; loss of key members of management and professional staff; recent global market and economic conditions, including credit markets; and the other risks and uncertainties included from time to time in our filings with the SEC.  Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.


