FILE:CF/CF-8K-20100614123431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02
                                  
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On June 9, 2010, the board of directors (the "Board") of CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") elected Stephen J. Hagge to the Board, effective immediately, to hold office as a Class II director until the Company's annual meeting of stockholders in 2013.  In connection with his election, Mr. Hagge has been appointed to serve as a member of the Company's audit committee.  With Mr. Hagge's election, the Board now has nine directors, six of whom are independent.
 
Mr. Hagge will receive a cash retainer of $55,000 and a restricted stock grant with a fair market value of $100,000 in connection with his election as a director.
 
On June 14, 2010, the Company issued a press release regarding Mr. Hagge's election.  A copy of the press release is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
 
Item 9.01
                                  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                      
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS
NEWS
NEWS
 
 
 
DEERFIELD, Illinois  (Business Wire)  June 14, 2010: CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:CF) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Stephen J. Hagge an independent director of the company. Hagge, executive vice president, chief operating officer and secretary of AptarGroup, Inc. (NYSE:ATR), will serve as a Class II director and is expected to stand for re-election by stockholders at the company's 2013 Annual Meeting. His election brings membership of the CF Industries Holdings, Inc. Board of Directors to nine.
 
Hagge, 58, has been the chief operating officer of AptarGroup, since January 1, 2008 and prior to that time served for 15 years as chief financial officer and corporate secretary. AptarGroup is a leading global supplier of innovative dispensing systems for the fragrance/cosmetic, personal care, pharmaceutical, household and food/beverage markets.
 
Hagge holds a B.S. degree in accounting from Illinois State University and is a Certified Public Accountant.
 
About CF Industries Holdings, Inc.
CF Industries Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is the holding company for the operations of CF Industries, Inc. CF Industries is a global leader in nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer manufacturing and distribution, serving both agricultural and industrial customers. CF Industries operates world-class nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing complexes in the central United States and Canada; conducts phosphate mining and manufacturing operations in Central Florida; and distributes fertilizer products through a system of terminals, warehouses, and associated transportation equipment located primarily in the Midwestern United States. The company also owns 50 percent interests in
 
 
GrowHow UK Limited, a fertilizer manufacturer in the United Kingdom; an ammonia facility in The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago; and KEYTRADE AG, a global fertilizer trading organization headquartered near Zurich, Switzerland. Additional information on CF Industries is found on the company's website at www.cfindustries.com.
 


