FILE:CF/CF-8K-20110624181705.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01
                                            
Other Events.
 
On June 24, 2011, CF Industries Holdings, Inc. ("CF") issued a press release reporting the resumption of production at its Port Neal nitrogen manufacturing complex, which is located in Sergeant Bluff, Iowa, near Sioux City on the Missouri River. CF had temporarily halted production at the facility on June 6, 2011, as a precautionary measure in view of rising water levels near the plant..  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01
                                            
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS
NEWS
NEWS
 
 
4 Parkway North, Suite 400
Deerfield, IL 60015
 
DEERFIELD, Illinois  (Business Wire)  June 24, 2011: CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: CF) today announced the resumption of production at its Port Neal nitrogen manufacturing complex, which is located in Sergeant Bluff, Iowa, near Sioux City on the Missouri River. The company had temporarily halted production at the facility on June 6, 2011, as a precautionary measure in view of rising water levels near the plant.
 
Commenting on the resumption of production, CF Industries Vice President of Manufacturing and Distribution Tony Will said, "We are proud of the extraordinary efforts of our team at Port Neal to ensure the safety of our employees, community and facility. We have determined that it is now safe to restart our operations at Port Neal and we have begun that process. We will continue to monitor the situation in light of the high water, which is expected to continue for several weeks. "
 
About CF Industries Holdings, Inc.
 
CF Industries Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is the holding company for the operations of CF Industries, Inc. CF Industries is a global leader in manufacturing and distribution of nitrogen and phosphate products, serving both agricultural and industrial customers. CF Industries operates world-class nitrogen manufacturing complexes in the central United States and Canada; conducts phosphate mining and manufacturing operations in Central Florida; and distributes plant nutrients through a system of terminals, warehouses, and associated transportation equipment located primarily in the Midwestern United States. The company also
owns 50 percent interests in GrowHow UK Limited, a plant nutrient manufacturer in the United Kingdom; an ammonia facility in The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago; and KEYTRADE AG, a global plant nutrient trading organization headquartered near Zurich, Switzerland. CF Industries routinely posts investor announcements and additional information on the company's website at www.cfindustries.com and encourages those interested in the company to check there frequently.
 


