FILE:CF/CF-8K-20110202112716.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On February 1, 2011, the board of directors (the "Board") of CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") elected Robert G. Kuhbach to the Board, effective immediately, to serve as a Class III director.  It is expected that Mr. Kuhbach will stand for re-election by stockholders at the Company's 2011 annual meeting of stockholders.  In connection with his election, Mr. Kuhbach has been appointed to serve as a member of the Company's audit committee and corporate governance and nominating committee.  With Mr. Kuhbach's election, the Board now has ten directors, seven of whom are independent.
 
Mr. Kuhbach will receive a cash retainer of $55,000 and a restricted stock grant with a fair market value of $100,000 in connection with his election as a director.
 
On February 1, 2011, the Company issued a press release regarding Mr. Kuhbach's election.  A copy of the press release is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS
NEWS
NEWS
 
 
DEERFIELD, Ill., Feb. 1, 2011 (BUSINESS WIRE) CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:CF) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Robert G. Kuhbach an independent director of the company. Kuhbach, retired chief financial officer of Dover Corporation (NYSE:DOV), will serve as a Class III director and is expected to stand for re-election by stockholders at the company's 2011 Annual Meeting.  His election brings membership of the CF Industries Holdings, Inc. Board of Directors to ten.
 
Kuhbach, 63, was the chief financial officer of Dover Corporation from 2002 to 2009 and prior to that time served for nearly ten years as general counsel.  Dover Corporation is a worldwide, diversified manufacturer of Industrial products.
 
Kuhbach holds a B.A. degree in economics from Yale University and a J.D. degree from the University of Michigan Law School.
 
About CF Industries Holdings, Inc.
 
CF Industries Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is the holding company for the operations of CF Industries, Inc. CF Industries is a global leader in nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer manufacturing and distribution, serving both agricultural and industrial customers. CF Industries operates world-class nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing complexes in the central United States and Canada; conducts phosphate mining and manufacturing operations in Central Florida; and distributes fertilizer products through a system of terminals, warehouses, and associated transportation equipment located primarily in the Midwestern United States. The company also owns 50 percent interests in GrowHow UK Limited, a fertilizer manufacturer in the United Kingdom; an ammonia facility in The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago; and KEYTRADE AG, a global fertilizer trading organization headquartered near Zurich, Switzerland. Additional information on CF Industries is found on the company's website at www.cfindustries.com.
 


