FILE:CF/CF-8K-20110606204752.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01
                                            
Other Events.
 
On June 6, 2011, CF Industries Holdings, Inc. issued a press release reporting the temporary halt of production at its Port Neal nitrogen manufacturing complex in Sergeant Bluff, Iowa as a precautionary measure until the impact of rising water levels in the area is known.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01
                                            
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS
NEWS
NEWS
 
 
DEERFIELD, Illinois  (Business Wire)  June 6, 2011: CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: CF) today announced the temporary halt of production at its Port Neal nitrogen manufacturing complex in Sergeant Bluff, Iowa, located near Sioux City on the Missouri River. The company is taking this step as a precautionary measure until the impact of rising water levels is known.
 
Commenting on the decision, CF Industries Vice President of Manufacturing and Distribution Tony Will said, "In preparation for potential flooding at Port Neal, we are nearing completion of construction of an earthen berm that we believe will protect the plant. We appreciate the extraordinary efforts of our employees at Port Neal and from other CF Industries locations in the region to protect our assets and ensure safe operations. We are in contact with our customers and will let them know when we expect to resume production and deliveries from this facility."
 
The company's Port Neal complex has the capacity to produce more than one million tons of nitrogen products annually for agricultural and industrial customers.
 
About CF Industries Holdings, Inc.
 
CF Industries Holdings, Inc., headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is the holding company for the operations of CF Industries, Inc. CF Industries is a global leader in manufacturing and distribution of nitrogen and phosphate products, serving both agricultural and
 
industrial customers. CF Industries operates world-class nitrogen manufacturing complexes in the central United States and Canada; conducts phosphate mining and manufacturing operations in Central Florida; and distributes plant nutrients through a system of terminals, warehouses, and associated transportation equipment located primarily in the Midwestern United States. The company also owns 50 percent interests in GrowHow UK Limited, a plant nutrient manufacturer in the United Kingdom; an ammonia facility in The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago; and KEYTRADE AG, a global plant nutrient trading organization headquartered near Zurich, Switzerland. CF Industries routinely posts investor announcements and additional information on the company's website at www.cfindustries.com and encourages those interested in the company to check there frequently.


