FILE:CF/CF-8K-20121211123719.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.03
                                          
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On December 11, 2012, the board of directors of CF Industries Holdings, Inc. ( the "Company") approved an amendment to the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Charter Amendment"), subject to the approval by the Company's stockholders at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to eliminate the Company's classified board structure under which directors are elected for three-year terms. If the Charter Amendment is approved by stockholders, starting with the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, directors whose terms are expiring will stand for election for one-year terms. Beginning with the Company's 2015 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, all directors would be elected on an annual basis.
 
In addition, on December 11, 2012 and effective on that date, the board of directors of the Company adopted Amendment No. 1 to the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws") to change the voting standard for the election of directors in uncontested elections from plurality to a majority of the votes cast. In a contested election (where the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected), the directors will be elected by a plurality of the votes cast.  Any incumbent director that fails to receive a majority of votes cast in an uncontested election will be required to tender his or her resignation for consideration by the Company's Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Board of Directors in accordance with procedures set forth in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, a copy of which is available on the investor relations section of the Company's website at www.cfindustries.com.  Information made available on the Company's website does not constitute part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The foregoing summary of changes to the Bylaws is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Amendment No. 1 to the Bylaws, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01
                                          
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS of CF Industries Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), is made as of the 11th day of December, 2012.
Bylaws
 
1.
                                     
Article I, Section 9 of the Bylaws is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
 
"Section 9.
                                    
Voting
.  Unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any question brought before any meeting of the stockholders shall be decided by the vote of the holders of a majority of the total number of votes of the Corporation's capital stock represented and entitled to vote thereat, voting as a single class.  Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, and subject to Section 12 of this Article II, each stockholder represented at a meeting of the stockholders shall be entitled to cast one (1) vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder.  Such votes may be cast in person or by proxy as provided in Section 10 of this Article II.  The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of the stockholders, in such officer's discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot."
 
2.
                                     
The last two sentences of Article III, Section 1 of the Bylaws are hereby deleted in their entirety and replaced with the following:
 
"Except as provided in Section 2 of this Article III, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to the director at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if as of a date that is fourteen (14) days in advance of the date the Corporation files its definitive proxy statement (regardless of whether or not thereafter revised or supplemented) with the Securities and Exchange Commission the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the shares represented in person or by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. For purposes of this Section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of votes cast against that director. Each director so elected shall hold office until such director's term expires and until such director's successor is duly elected and qualified, or until such director's earlier death, resignation or removal.  Directors need not be stockholders."
 
3.
                                     
EXCEPT AS AMENDED ABOVE, the Bylaws of CF Industries Holdings, Inc. shall continue in full force and effect.
 
 


