FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20031015161103.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM 9: REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE ITEM 12: RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
          The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure" and Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
          On October 15, 2003, the Company announced its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
          The information furnished shall not be deemed "filed " for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or incorporated by reference into any filing thereunder or under the Securities Act of 1933 unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Exhibit Index
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Pam Erickson E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation 617-296-6080 pam.erickson@etrade.com
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Contact
Adam Townsend E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation 916-463-2889 adam.townsend@etrade.com
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NYSE: ET) today announced results for its quarter ended September 30, 2003, reporting GAAP net income of $61 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, compared to net income of $21 million, or $0.06 per share, in the same quarter a year ago. The Company's third quarter GAAP results include a $41 million realized gain in its corporate equity investment portfolio. This gain represents a strategic rebalancing decision to reallocate the funds to support growth initiatives in other parts of the business. In addition, GAAP results reflect $47 million in previously announced restructuring charges and other exit activity. Net income from ongoing operations was $63 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, compared to $43 million, or $0.12 per share, in the same quarter a year ago. The Company reported net revenues for its quarter ended September 30, 2003, of $398 million, a 21 percent improvement over the same quarter a year ago.
MENLO PARK, Calif., October 15, 2003 
          The Company increased its 2003 GAAP earnings guidance to between $0.40 and $0.48 per share from a previous range of between $0.22 and $0.27 per share. In addition,
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003 Page 2
management raised and narrowed the range for expected 2003 earnings from ongoing operations to between $0.56 and $0.58 per share from its previous expectation of $0.52 to $0.57 per share.
          "We have recorded the best quarterly results in the Company's history," said Mitchell H. Caplan, Chief Executive Officer, E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. "The strength of our model allowed us to capitalize on the rapidly changing market environment, validating E*TRADE FINANCIAL as a franchise driven to create sustainable long-term value."
          Other selected highlights from the third quarter of 2003:
         "Growing confidence in a US economic recovery kept investors engaged during what is usually a seasonally slow quarter," said R. Jarrett Lilien, President and Chief Operating Officer, E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. "The leverage we are able to gain from the increased trading activity allowed us to further monetize our increased operating efficiencies. The steady recovery in the equity markets and positive activity trends among our customers give us greater confidence that the retail investor has returned to the market."
          In late September, the Company introduced the E*TRADE FINANCIAL Sweep Deposit Account. The Sweep Account provides the same ease of use and functionality as current options, while also giving brokerage customers a FDIC insured account yielding improved rates. "The introduction of our Sweep product is a true win for customers and for the Company, providing improved rates for customers while creating a cost-efficient source of funding for the Bank. The Sweep product is part of our plan to increase interest rate spread to 150 basis points this quarter," continued Mr. Lilien.
          In the third quarter, the Company substantially completed the facility restructuring initiative that it began in second quarter of 2003. "Through these additional steps, we are positioned to realize our projected $47 million, or $0.08 per year, in annualized savings," said Mr. Caplan. "We look forward to the continuing opportunity to showcase the increased efficiencies in our model and demonstrate the Company's ability to deliver strong results in varying economic environments."
          "Continuing our commitment to improve the transparency of our reporting," concluded Mr. Caplan, "I am pleased to announce that beginning in the first quarter of 2004, we will report earnings on a GAAP basis, eliminating our pro forma ongoing EPS reporting. We intend to provide 2004 guidance in December with the release of our monthly metrics report."
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003 Page 3
          Historical monthly metric data from January 2003 to September 2003 can be found on the E*TRADE FINANCIAL investor relations site at .
www.etrade.com
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
          The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provide financial services including brokerage, banking and lending for retail, corporate and institutional customers. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member NASD/SIPC). Bank and lending products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
E*TRADE FINANCIAL and the E*TRADE FINANCIAL logo is a registered trademark or trademark of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corp. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, seasonality, the development of new products and services, the enhancement of existing products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE Group, Inc. or E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corp. with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption "Risk Factors") and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Important Notice
(C) 2003 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corp. All rights reserved.
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003 Page 4
Financial Statements
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003 Page 5
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003 Page 6
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003 Page 7
Reconciliation of Reported Results to Results from Ongoing Operations and Ongoing Operating Margin
(1)(3)
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003 Page 8
Segment Reporting
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003 Page 9
Key Performance Metrics
(3)
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003 Page 10
Key Performance Metrics (continued)
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003 Page 11
Key Performance Metrics (continued)
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003 Page 12
Activity in Allowance for Loan Losses
     
Three Months Ending September 30, 2003
Bank Average Balance Data
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003 Page 13
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION AND ENDNOTES
Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures and Certain Metrics
          In order to better assess the Company's financial operating results, management believes results from ongoing operations, ongoing operating margin, free cash, EBITDA and interest coverage are appropriate measures of evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company.
          It is important to note these metrics and non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net income, operating margin, consolidated statements of cash flows, or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003 Page 14
(3) Amounts and percentages may not calculate due to rounding.
(4) Eliminates intercompany payment made by Bank to Brokerage related to Sweep Deposit Account (SDA) relationships, swept daily from Brokerage to Bank. Under this relationship, Bank pays Brokerage a negotiated rate that approximates market on the average SDA balance. Bank reflects this payment as selling and marketing expense and Brokerage reflects this payment as other revenues.
(5) Included in general and administrative for the quarter ended September 30, 2003, is a $6 million charge related to a litigation settlement in the Banking Segment related to employee overtime and for the quarter ended June 30, 2003, is a $7 million MJK litigationreserve in the Brokerage Segment.
(6) Effective June 30, 2003, brokerage accounts are considered active if the account has a positive asset balance of at least $25 at the end of the quarter, as compared to prior periods in which an active account was defined as an account with a positive balance, or if a trade has been made in the account in the past six months or if the account was opened in connection with a corporate employee stock benefit program. Inactive account figures for the quarter ended June 30, 2003, include those accounts no longer included in the definition of active accounts as revised in the quarter ended June 30, 2003. Prior periods were not restated to reflect the change in definition. Customers may have separate or multiple accounts for each relationship they maintain with the Company, including separate or multiple brokerage and banking accounts. Bank deposit accounts are considered active if a customer account was initially funded and the account is not considered abandoned or dormant under applicable Federal and State laws, or the account has not been closed. Bank loan accounts are considered active if the Company holds the underlying obligations. Credit card accounts included in active banking accounts are considered active if the account has incurred a debit or credit in the prior month.
(7) Q3'03 estimate
(8) Amount includes a taxable equivalent increase in interest income of $560,000 for the quarter ended September 30, 2003, and none for the quarter ended September 30, 2002.


