FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20031022160629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.    OTHER EVENTS
 
On October 20, 2003, E*TRADE Financial Corporation ("E*TRADE") through its wholly owned subsidiary E*TRADE Bank consummated its previously announced acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Deutsche Recreational Asset Funding Corporation ("DRAFCO"), including certain securitized interests. The transaction was completed pursuant to the same Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 25, 2002 by and between Deutsche Bank AG and E*TRADE Bank, pursuant to which E*TRADE completed the acquisition of Ganis Credit Corporation. The DRAFCO acquisition was subject to the receipt of certain third party approvals, all of which were successfully obtained. Consummation of the DRAFCO acquisition completes all of the transactions contemplated under the Stock Purchase Agreement.
 
Certain statements contained in this Form 8-K that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, seasonality, the development of new products and services, the enhancement of existing products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual report filed by the company with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption "Risk Factors") and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 
ITEM 7.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


