FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20040121072537.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9: REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
ITEM 12: RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure" and Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
 
On January 21, 2004, the Company announced its fourth-quarter and year-end earnings for fiscal year 2003. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information furnished shall not be deemed "filed " for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or incorporated by reference into any filing thereunder or under the Securities Act of 1933 unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
99.1    Earnings Press Release, dated January 21, 2004
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Contact
Pam Erickson
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
617-296-6080
pam.erickson@etrade.com
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
Adam Townsend
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
916-463-2889
adam.townsend@etrade.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NYSE: ET) today announced results for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2003, reporting GAAP net income of $107 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, compared to GAAP net income of $30 million, or $0.08 per share, in the same quarter a year ago. Earnings from Ongoing Operations in the fourth quarter totaled $0.18 per share or $68 million, compared to $0.14 per share or $52 million, in the same quarter a year ago.
New York, N.Y., January 21, 2004 
 
For the year, E*TRADE FINANCIAL reported GAAP earnings of $0.55 per share compared to a loss of $0.52 per share in 2002. Also for the year, the Company reported earnings of $0.59 per share from Ongoing Operations, compared to $0.45 per share a year ago.
 
The Company affirmed its 2004 GAAP earnings guidance of between $0.70 and $0.85 per share on Total Net Revenue of $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion.
 
"In 2003, we generated the best results in the Company's history," said Mitchell H. Caplan, Chief Executive Officer, E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. "We strengthened our financial position considerably, increased operational efficiencies and produced record earnings, all while extending the breadth of our product portfolio and enhancing our customer experience."
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003
Page 2
 
Other selected highlights from the fourth quarter of 2003:
 
 
 
 
"2003 was a pivotal year for us. E*TRADE FINANCIAL is the challenger brand that is seizing the opportunities in this growth segment," said R. Jarrett Lilien, President and Chief Operating Officer, E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. "The operating leverage in our model continues to turn improving market conditions into higher profits and wider margins. Our market share gains throughout the year and our consistently strong results underscore the power of our integrated brokerage and banking model and the leverage of our scalable infrastructure."
 
Historical monthly metric data from January 2003 to December 2003 can be found on the E*TRADE FINANCIAL investor relations site at www.etrade.com.
 
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
 
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provide financial services including brokerage, banking and lending for retail, corporate and institutional customers. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member NASD/SIPC). Bank and lending products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
 
 
Important Notice
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL and the E*TRADE FINANCIAL logo is a registered trademark or trademark of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE Group, Inc. or E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption "Risk Factors") and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 
2004 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. All rights reserved.
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003
Page 3
 
Financial Statements
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003
Page 4
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003
Page 5
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003
Page 6
 
Reconciliation of Reported Results to Results from Ongoing Operations and Ongoing Operating Margin
(1) (4)
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003
Page 7
 
Segment Reporting
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003
Page 8
 
Key Performance Metrics
(4)
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003
Page 9
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003
Page 10
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003
Page 11
 
Activity in Allowance for Loan Losses
 
 
Bank Average Balance Data
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003
Page 12
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION AND ENDNOTES
 
Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures and Certain Metrics
 
In order to better assess the Company's financial operating results, management believes results from ongoing operations, ongoing operating margin, free cash, EBITDA and interest coverage are appropriate measures of evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company.
 
(1)
Results From Ongoing Operations, Ongoing Operating Margin
 
Results from ongoing operations exclude gain or loss on early extinguishment of debt, amortization of other intangibles, acquisition-related expenses, the gain or loss on investments, unrealized losses on venture funds, the fair value adjustments of financial derivatives related to the impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, executive agreement, restructuring and other exit activity, the cumulative effect of accounting changes and the adjustment to minority interest for the consolidating impact of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Advisor on restructuring and other exit activity and tax expense. Ongoing operating margin excludes, in addition to the above, corporate interest income, corporate interest expense, equity in income of investments and other non-operating items. Management believes this measure to be appropriate in determining the operating performance of the Company's core business on an ongoing basis and represents the measure used by analysts and the investment community historically to evaluate company performanceAs previously announced, however, beginning in calendar year 2004, management will not report this measure.
.
 
(2)
Free Cash and Interest Coverage
 
Free cash as reported by the Company represents cash held at Parent and non-Bank or Brokerage subsidiaries less discretionary reserves and excess capital at Bank and Brokerage after regulatory capital requirements and the Company's own regulatory capital guidelines. The Company believes that free cash is a useful measure of the Company's liquidity as it excludes cash reflected on the balance sheet that may not be freely available to the Company. Interest coverage is defined as EBITDA divided by corporate interest expense.
 
It is important to note these metrics and other non-GAAP measures may involve judgment by management and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net income, operating margin, consolidated statements of cash flows, or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
(3) For the three months ended December 31, 2003, diluted income before cumulative effect of accounting change per share and net income per share are calculated using the if converted' method, which includes the additional dilutive impact assuming conversion of the Company's subordinated convertible debt. Under the if converted' method the per share numerator excludes the interest expense and related amortization of offering costs from the convertible debt of $7.2 million, net of tax, and the denominator includes the shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the convertible debt of 45.4 million. For all other periods, the if converted' method is not used as its effect would be anti-dilutive.
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003
Page 13
 
(4) Amounts and percentages may not calculate due to rounding.
 
(5) Eliminates intercompany payment made by Bank to Brokerage related to Sweep Deposit Account (SDA) relationships, swept daily from Brokerage to Bank, which began in the third quarter of 2003. Under this relationship, Bank pays Brokerage a negotiated rate that approximates market on the average SDA balance. Bank reflects this payment as selling and marketing expense and Brokerage reflects this payment as other revenues.
 
(6) Included in general and administrative for the quarter ended September 30, 2003, is a $6 million charge related to a litigation settlement in the Banking Segment related to claims for employee overtime.
 
(7) Q4'03 estimate
 
(8) Amount includes a taxable equivalent increase in interest income of $0.7 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2003, and $0.2 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2002.


