FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20051201161939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
On November 30, 2005, E*TRADE Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), closed the acquisition (the "") by the Company, through its subsidiary E*TRADE Brokerage Holdings, Inc., of the BrownCo on-line brokerage business conducted by BrownCo, LLC (formerly J.P. Morgan Invest, LLC) (""), pursuant to the Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 28, 2005, among the Company, J.P. Morgan Invest Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and JPMorgan Chase & Co., a Delaware corporation, as amended. The Transaction was previously announced by the Company in its Form 8-K dated September 28, 2005.
Company
Transaction
BrownCo
Seller
 
In connection with the Transaction, the Company acquired all of the limited liability company interests in BrownCo from the Seller for approximately $1.6 billion in cash.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the closing of the Transaction is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this report by reference.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Exhibit 99.1    Press Release, dated December 1, 2005
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: December 1, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Contact
 
Pam Erickson
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
646-521-4418
pam.erickson@etrade.com
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
 
Adam Townsend
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
703-236-8719
adam.townsend@etrade.com
 
 
 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NYSE: ET) today announced it has completed the acquisition of BrownCo, an online brokerage service of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM).
New York, December 1, 2005
 
"E*TRADE FINANCIAL is rapidly executing on its aggressive growth goals," said Mitchell H. Caplan, Chief Executive Officer, E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. "The close of the BrownCo deal in conjunction with the recent acquisition of Harris strengthens and extends our asset gathering strategy while adding significant scale to our operations."
direct
 
In connection with the Company's common stock issuance to finance the BrownCo acquisition, the underwriters of the common stock offering have exercised their 10 percent over-allotment option.
 
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
 
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provides financial services including trading, investing, banking and lending for retail and institutional customers. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member NASD/SIPC). Bank and lending products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
 
About JPMorgan Chase
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $1.2 trillion and operations in more than 50 countries. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and businesses, financial transaction processing, asset and wealth management, and private equity. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase & Co. has its corporate headquarters in New York and its U.S. consumer and commercial banking headquarters in Chicago. Under the JPMorgan, Chase and Bank One brands, the firm serves millions of consumers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients. Information about the firm is available at .
www.jpmorganchase.com
 
Important Notices
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL and the E*TRADE FINANCIAL logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE Group, Inc. or E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption "Risk Factors") and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 
 2005 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation


