FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20051007163108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
On October 6, 2005, E*TRADE Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), closed the acquisition (the "") of Harris LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement (the ""), dated August 7, 2005, between the Company, Harris Financial Corp., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Harris. The Transaction was previously announced by the Company in its Form 8-K dated August 7, 2005.
Company
Transaction
direct
Harris
direct
Agreement
Seller
direct
 
In connection with the Transaction, the Company acquired all of the limited liability company interests in Harris from the Seller for approximately $700 million in cash.
direct
 
Prior to the closing of the Transaction, the Company entered into the First Amendment to Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of October 6, 2005 (the ""), with the Seller and Harris. A copy of the Amendment is filed as Exhibit 2.1 hereto and is incorporated in this report by reference.
Amendment
direct
 
A copy of the press release announcing the closing of the Transaction is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this report by reference.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) .
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 7, 2005

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
FIRST AMENDMENT TO PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of October 6, 2005, among Harris Financial Corp., a Delaware corporation (""), Harris LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the ""), and E*TRADE Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("").
Amendment
Seller
direct
Company
Purchaser
 
 
WHEREAS, Seller, the Company and Purchaser are parties to that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of August 7, 2005 (the "");
Agreement
 
WHEREAS, on or prior to the Closing , Seller and Purchaser will enter into an amended and restated transitional services agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit I (the ""), which Amended and Restated Transitional Services Agreement shall become effective at the Closing; and
Amended and Restated Transitional Services Agreement
 
WHEREAS, Seller, the Company and Purchaser desire to amend the Agreement, as hereinafter more particularly set forth.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants and undertakings contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, herby covenant and agree as follows:
 
1. All capitalized terms in this Amendment that are not otherwise defined herein are used with the same meaning attributed to such capitalized terms in the Agreement.
 
2. The following sections are amended or amended and restated as follows:
 
 
(a) One business day prior to the Closing Date, Seller shall deliver to Purchaser (i) an unaudited statement of financial condition of the Company as of September 30, 2005, substantially in the form of hereto (the "") and (ii) a statement setting forth Seller's calculation of Net Capital of the Company as of such date (""), prepared using the Balance Sheet Principles.
Exhibit B
Indicative Balance Sheet
Estimated Net Capital
 
 
1.8 . From and after the Closing Date, the services to Designated Accounts will be subject to an investment services agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C (the "") to be entered into on or prior to the Closing Date by and among the Company, Harris National Association, a
Designated Accounts
Investment Services Agreement
national banking association (""), and The Harris Bank National Association, a national banking association. Upon termination of the Investment Services Agreement, Seller will be entitled to require that the Designated Accounts be transferred to a broker-dealer other than the Company that is affiliated with or selected by Harris N.A. (the ""). Effective on the termination date of the Investment Services Agreement (the ""), Purchaser shall cause the Company to take, and the Company shall take, all actions reasonably requested by Seller and its Affiliates to facilitate the transfer of the Designated Accounts to the Designated Broker Dealer effective as of the Assignment Date, which transfer may require (a) the solicitation by the Designated Broker Dealer, with the cooperation of the Company and Purchaser, of a new customer account agreement between the Designated Broker Dealer and each owner of a Designated Account or (b) at the election of Harris N.A., subject to applicable Laws, notification of such transfer to the owners of Designated Accounts or such other consent process as Harris N.A. may reasonably designate. Effective on the Assignment Date, Purchaser shall cause the Company to assign, and the Company shall assign, all of the customer account agreements underlying the Designated Accounts to the Designated Broker Dealer pursuant to an assignment instrument mutually agreed by the Parties. Purchaser and, after the Closing, the Company shall cooperate with Seller to effect transfers of all Cash Balances associated with the Designated Accounts that are not on deposit at Harris Deposits to an Affiliated financial institution of Seller designated by Seller.
Harris N.A.
Designated Broker Dealer
Assignment Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) To the extent permissible under applicable Law, until the later of the seventh anniversary of the Closing and such time as the information and access described below is no longer reasonably required by Purchaser or the Company, Seller will afford promptly to Purchaser, the Company and their respective agents reasonable access to the books and records of Seller and its Affiliates to the extent such books and records relate to the Company during the period of ownership of the Company by Seller; that any such access by Purchaser or the Company may not unreasonably interfere with the conduct of the business of Seller or its Affiliates.
provided
 
 
 
(f) Harris N.A. or one of its Affiliates shall become an employer of each of the employees of the Company listed on Schedule 5.6(f) (the "") following the Closing. Purchaser shall cause the Company to continue to employ all of the Designated Employees following the Closing and to facilitate the dual employment of the Designated Employees by Harris N.A. or one of its Affiliates until the Assignment Date. The Designated Employees will not be eligible to participate in any Purchaser Plan and will not be covered by any medical dental and health plans of the Purchaser. For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of Sections 5.6(a)-(e) shall not apply to the Designated Employees.
Designated Employees
 
 
5.14 . On or prior to the Assignment Date, the Company shall transfer to an Affiliate of Seller all of the tangible and
Separate Assets and Services
 
intangible assets of the Company identified on Schedule 5.14(a). On or prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall terminate each of the real property sub-leases with an Affiliate of Seller identified on Schedule 5.14(b) (the assets, contracts and services identified on Schedule 5.14(a) and on Schedule 5.14(b), collectively, the "").
Separate Assets and Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iii) the operation of, and all events and circumstances relating to the Designated Accounts except as may otherwise be provided under the Amended and Restated Transitional Services Agreement, that the matters for which indemnification is provided in this clause (iii) shall not include performance or non-performance by any party to the Investment Services Agreement or the Amended and Restated Transitional Services Agreement of their respective obligations thereunder after the Closing;
provided
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. The following exhibits are amended and restated or added as follows:
 
 
 
4. On or prior to the date hereof a First Amendment to the Disclosure Letter shall be delivered to Purchaser.
 
5. This Amendment shall become effective as of the date hereof.
 
6. This Amendment may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which shall together constitute one and the same instrument and shall become effective when two or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties, including delivery by facsimile, it being understood that all parties need not sign the same counterpart.
 
7. This Amendment shall not constitute an amendment or waiver of any other provision of the Agreement not expressly referred to herein. Except as expressly amended hereby, the provisions of the Agreement are and shall remain in full force and effect.
 
8. THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED, PERFORMED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS TO BE PERFORMED WHOLLY IN SUCH STATE. Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or in connection with this Amendment shall be resolved in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 10.13 of the Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Contact
Pam Erickson
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
617-296-6080
pam.erickson@etrade.com
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
Adam Townsend
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
703-236-8719
adam.townsend@etrade.com
 
 
 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NYSE: ET) today announced it has completed the acquisition of the US-based online brokerage operations of Harris from BMO Financial Group (TSX, NYSE: BMO).
New York, October 6, 2005
direct
 
"The close of the Harrisdirect acquisition marks a milestone in the evolution of E*TRADE FINANCIAL," said Mitchell H. Caplan, Chief Executive Officer. "Harrisdirect customers are highly valuable, holding a high industry average asset balance. Our goal is to leverage each customer relationship across our integrated platform of investing, cash, and credit to further strengthen our franchise and accelerate our growth goals."
 
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
 
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provide financial services including trading, investing, banking and lending for retail and institutional customers. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member NASD/SIPC). Bank and lending products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
 
About BMO Financial Group
 
Established in 1817 as Bank of Montreal, BMO Financial Group is a highly diversified North American financial services organization. With total assets of $294 billion as at January 31, 2005, and more than 33,000 employees, BMO provides a broad range of retail banking, wealth management and investment banking products and solutions. BMO Financial Group serves clients across Canada through its Canadian retail arm BMO Bank of Montreal and through BMO Nesbitt Burns, one of Canada's leading full-service investment firms. In the United States, BMO serves clients through Chicago-based Harris, an integrated financial services organization that provides more than 1.5 million personal, business, corporate and institutional clients with banking, lending, investing, financial planning, trust administration, portfolio management, family office and wealth transfer services.
 
Important Notices
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL and the E*TRADE FINANCIAL logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE Group, Inc. or E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption "Risk Factors") and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 
 2005 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation


