FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20051019162820.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02: RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
 
On October 19, 2005, the Company announced its third quarter earnings for fiscal year 2005. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information furnished shall not be deemed "filed " for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or incorporated by reference into any filing thereunder or under the Securities Act of 1933 unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(c)    Exhibits
 
99.1    Earnings Press Release, dated October 19, 2005
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Contact
 
Pam Erickson
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
617-296-6080
pam.erickson@etrade.com
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
 
Adam Townsend
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
703-236-8719
adam.townsend@etrade.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NYSE: ET) today announced results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2005, reporting net income of $107.5 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, compared to $79.3 million, or $0.21 per diluted share a year ago. Consolidated net revenue for the third quarter increased 26 percent to a record $422.8 million from $335.1 million a year ago. Total segment income(1) increased 35 percent to $151.1 million from $111.7 million a year ago, generating a consolidated operating margin of 35.7 percent compared to 33.3 percent in the year ago period. Total client assets increased 28 percent year over year to $106.4 billion, including a record $19.5 billion in total customer cash and deposits. In the third quarter, net interest income represented 48 percent of total net revenue, up from 46 percent a year ago. Bank net interest spread increased one basis point sequentially and 10 basis points year over year to 223 basis points - contributing to annual growth in net interest income of 32 percent. Total DARTs increased 29 percent year over year to 125,534, with retail DART volumes up 50 percent.
New York, October 19, 2005
 
The Company raised and narrowed its 2005 earnings guidance range to $1.04 - $1.09 per share from the previous range of $0.96 - $1.06. This range implies results of $0.25 - $0.30 per share in the fourth quarter. The revised guidance specifically excludes a net $0.05 per share gain resulting from the sale of E*TRADE Consumer Finance, partially offset by costs associated with the Company's acquisition of Harris, including incremental interest expense, restructuring and other deal-related costs.
direct
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2005
Page 2
 
"Our strong operating and financial performance, combined with the power of consolidation, has strengthened the franchise -- accelerating our growth goals and delivering value to customers and shareholders," said Mitchell H. Caplan, Chief Executive Officer, E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. "In the third quarter we broadened and deepened our customer relationships through the continued adoption of E*TRADE Complete, creating growth in all of the key drivers of our business including assets, cash, borrowings and transactions."
 
Other selected highlights from the third quarter of 2005:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Historical monthly metric data from January 2003 to September 2005 can be found on the E*TRADE FINANCIAL investor relations site at .
www.etrade.com
 
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
 
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provides financial services including trading, investing, banking and lending for Retail and Institutional customers. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member NASD/SIPC). Bank and lending products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
 
 
Important Notice
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL and the E*TRADE FINANCIAL logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption "Risk Factors") and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 
 2005 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. All rights reserved.
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2005
Page 3
 
Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2005
Page 4
 
 
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2005
Page 5
 
 
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2005
Page 6
 
Segment Reporting
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2005
Page 7
 
 
Revised 2005 GAAP Earnings Guidance
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2005
Page 8
 
Key Performance Metrics
(4)
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2005
Page 9
 
Key Performance Metrics
(4)
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2005
Page 10
 
Key Performance Metrics
(4)
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2005
Page 11
 
Activity in Allowance for Loan Losses
 
 
Bank Average Balance Data
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2005
Page 12
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION AND ENDNOTES
 
Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures and Certain Metrics
 
In order to better assess the Company's financial operating results, management believes consolidated operating margin, free cash, EBITDA and interest coverage are appropriate measures of evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company. We believe that the elimination of certain items from these measures is helpful to analysts and investors who may wish to use some or all of this information to analyze our current performance, prospects and valuation. Our management uses non-GAAP information internally to evaluate our operating performance and in formulating our budget for future periods.
 
Consolidated Operating Margin
 
Consolidated operating margin is defined as income before other income, income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change divided by net revenues. Operating margin for Retail and Institutional is based on segment results. Our consolidated statements of operations contain a reconciliation of income before other income, income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change to net income.
 
Free Cash
 
Free cash as reported by the Company represents cash held at Parent and non-Bank or Brokerage subsidiaries less discretionary reserves and excess capital at Bank and Brokerage after regulatory capital requirements and the Company's own regulatory capital guidelines. The Company believes that free cash is a useful measure of the Company's liquidity as it excludes cash reflected on the balance sheet that may not be freely available to the Company.
 
EBITDA
 
EBITDA represents net income from continuing operations before corporate interest expense, taxes and depreciation and amortization. Management believes that EBITDA provides a useful additional measure of our performance by excluding certain non-cash charges and expenses that are not directly related to the performance of our business.
 
Interest Coverage
 
Interest coverage represents EBITDA divided by corporate interest expense. Management believes that by excluding the charges and expenses that are excluded from EBITDA, interest coverage provides a useful additional measure of our ability to continue to meet our interest obligations and our liquidity.
 
It is important to note these metrics and other non-GAAP measures may involve judgment by management and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net income, consolidated statements of cash flows, or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. For complete information on the items excluded from these non-GAAP measures, please see our financial statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" that will be included in the periodic report we expect to file with the SEC with respect to the financial periods discussed herein.
 
(1) Operating margin is defined as income before other income, income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change ("segment income") divided by net revenues. Operating margin for Retail and Institutional is based on segment results.
 
(2) For the nine months ended September 30, 2004, diluted earnings per share is calculated using the if converted' method, which includes the additional dilutive impact assuming conversion of the Company's subordinated convertible debt. Under the if converted' method, the per share numerator excludes the interest expense and related amortization of offering costs from the convertible debt, net of tax, of $17.5 million. The denominator includes the shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the convertible debt of 31.8 million. For all other periods presented the if converted' method is not used as its effect would be anti-dilutive.
 
(3) Reflects elimination of transactions between Retail and Institutional segments, which include deposit transfer pricing, servicing and order flow rebates.
 
 
 
(6) Amounts include a taxable equivalent increase in interest income of $2.6 million and $2.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively.


