FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20051011062743.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On October 7, 2005 E*TRADE Financial Corporation (the "Company") announced the completion of a three-year $250 million senior secured revolving credit facility. A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the facility is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this report by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Contact
 
Pam Erickson
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
617-296-6080
pam.erickson@etrade.com
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
 
Adam Townsend
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
703-236-8719
adam.townsend@etrade.com
 
 
 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NYSE: ET) today announced the completion of a three-year $250 million senior secured revolving credit facility. The facility will be used for general corporate purposes which may include the funding of transaction-related expenses and regulatory capital needs associated with the Company's acquisition of Harrisand planned acquisition of BrownCo.
New York, October 7, 2005
direct
 
"We are pleased to have established a $250 million bank facility," said Robert J. Simmons, Chief Financial Officer, E*TRADE FINANCIAL. "This transaction provides the Company with ongoing access to long-term liquidity and improves our financial flexibility."
 
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
 
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provides financial services including trading, investing, banking and lending for retail and institutional customers. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member NASD/SIPC). Bank and lending products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
 
 
Important Notice
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL and the E*TRADE FINANCIAL logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE Group, Inc. or E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption "Risk Factors") and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 
2005 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. All rights reserved.


