FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20050531063630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Approval of 2005 Equity Incentive Plan
 
At the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of E*Trade Financial Corporation ("E*Trade") held on May 26, 2005 (the "2005 Annual Meeting"), our stockholders approved E*Trade's 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2005 Plan").
 
The 2005 Plan provides for incentive awards to employees, consultants and non-employee directors for the purposes of attracting, retaining and rewarding individuals who provide valuable services to E*Trade and its affiliates and motivating such persons to contribute to E*Trade's growth and profitability. Pursuant to the 2005 Plan, E*Trade is authorized to grant the following types of awards: (i) stock options (incentive or non-qualified), (ii) stock appreciation rights, (iii) stock purchase rights, (iv) stock bonuses, (v) restricted stock units, (vi) performance awards and (vii) other cash-based or stock-based awards, as more fully described in the 2005 Plan. Each award is subject to such terms and conditions consistent with the 2005 Plan as determined by the Compensation Committee and as set forth in the individual award agreement. The maximum number of shares that may be issued under the 2005 Plan is the lesser of (a) the number of shares available for grant under E*Trade's 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Predecessor Plan") as of May 26, 2005 or (b) 42,000,000, subject to adjustment in the event of certain changes in the common stock or capital structure of the Company. The number of shares will be automatically increased by awards that expire, terminate, forfeit or are repurchased pursuant to the Predecessor Plan.
 
The 2005 Plan also provides for automatic grants to non-employee directors. A new non-employee director will receive a stock option on no more than 50,000 shares, which will vest in four equal annual installments. In addition, upon each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders, such non-employee director will receive a stock option on no more than 20,000 shares, which will vest in two equal annual installments. The compensation committee of the Board of Directors of E*Trade (the "Committee") may also provide that non-employee directors receive stock option awards on up to 10,000 shares for each committee on which such non-employee serves and stock option awards on up to 10,000 shares for each committee on which such non-employee serves as chairman. The additional annual option awards will vest in two equal annual installments.
 
The 2005 Plan (including the forms of award agreements used under the 2005 Plan) is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.66.
 
Approval of Executive Bonus Plan
 
At the 2005 Annual Meeting, our stockholders also approved a new Executive Bonus Plan (the "Bonus Plan"), which provides incentives for senior executives to achieve certain performance metrics, determined by the Committee (or in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, by the independent members of the full Board of Directors), by rewarding such senior executives with annual cash-based or equity-based bonus awards. Performance metrics will be based on some or all of the following: revenue, earnings per share, net operating income, net income, cash generation, cash management, return on capital, return on assets, return on investment, risk management, market share, product development and distribution, human resources, customer service/satisfaction results, satisfactory completion of identified special projects and overall effectiveness of management. The maximum amount payable to any one individual under the Bonus Plan will be 2.5% of the net income of E*Trade.
 
For fiscal year 2005, we will pay bonuses of up to 2.5% of net income for our Chief Executive Officer, 1.75% of net income for our President and Chief Operating Officer and 1.5% of net income for our other named executive officers. A portion of the total bonus is likely to take the form of stock options or restricted stock (which has historically been granted outside the scope of the performance bonus plan), a certain amount of which will vest only if performance metrics are met. The Committee and Board may exercise discretion to reduce the actual payment to any or all of the participants under the plan based on the Company's performance against key metrics communicated to investors, including net revenue and earnings per share.
 
The Bonus Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.67.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Exhibit 10.66        2005 Equity Incentive Plan and Forms of Award Agreements
 
Exhibit 10.67        Executive Bonus Plan
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.66
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.
.
E, P T P
STABLISHMENT
URPOSE
AND
ERM
OF
LAN
 
1.1 The E*TRADE Financial Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the ) is hereby established effective as of May 26, 2005, the date of its approval by the stockholders of the Company (the ).
Establishment.
"Plan"
"Effective Date"
 
1.2 The purpose of the Plan is to advance the interests of the Participating Company Group and its stockholders by providing an incentive to attract, retain and reward persons performing services for the Participating Company Group and by motivating such persons to contribute to the growth and profitability of the Participating Company Group. The Plan seeks to achieve this purpose by providing for Awards in the form of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Stock Purchase Rights, Stock Bonuses, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Deferred Compensation Awards, Nonemployee Director Awards, Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards.
Purpose.
 
1.3 The Plan shall continue in effect until its termination by the Committee; provided, however, that all Awards shall be granted, if at all, within ten (10) years from the Effective Date.
Term of Plan.
 
2. .
D C
EFINITIONS
AND
ONSTRUCTION
 
2.1 Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have their respective meanings set forth below:
Definitions.
 
(a) means (i) an entity, other than a Parent Corporation, that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediary entities, controls the Company or (ii) an entity, other than a Subsidiary Corporation, that is controlled by the Company directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediary entities. For this purpose, the term "control" (including the term "controlled by") means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the relevant entity, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; or shall have such other meaning assigned such term for the purposes of registration on Form S-8 under the Securities Act.
"Affiliate"
 
(b) means any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Stock Purchase Right, Stock Bonus, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Deferred Compensation Award, Nonemployee Director Award, Cash-Based Award or Other Stock-Based Award granted under the Plan.
"Award"
 
(c) means a written or electronic agreement between the Company and a Participant setting forth the terms, conditions and restrictions of the Award granted to the Participant.
"Award Agreement"
 
(d) means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Board"
 
(e) means an Award denominated in cash and granted pursuant to Section 13.
"Cash-Based Award"
 
(f) means, unless such term or an equivalent term is otherwise defined with respect to an Award by the Participant's Award Agreement or by a written contract of employment or service, any of the following: (i) the Participant's theft, dishonesty, willful misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty for personal profit, or falsification of any Participating Company documents or records; (ii) the Participant's material failure to abide by a Participating Company's code of conduct or other policies (including, without limitation, policies relating to confidentiality and reasonable workplace conduct); (iii) the Participant's unauthorized use, misappropriation, destruction or diversion of any tangible or intangible asset or corporate opportunity of a Participating Company (including, without limitation, the Participant's improper use or disclosure of a Participating Company's confidential or proprietary information); (iv) any intentional act by the Participant which has a material detrimental effect on a Participating Company's reputation or business; (v) the Participant's repeated failure or inability to perform any reasonable assigned duties after written notice from a Participating Company of, and a reasonable opportunity to cure, such failure or inability; (vi) any material breach by the Participant of any employment, service, non-disclosure, non-competition, non-solicitation or other similar agreement between the Participant and a Participating Company, which breach is not cured pursuant to the terms of such agreement; or (vii) the Participant's conviction (including any plea of guilty or nolo contendere) of any criminal act involving fraud, dishonesty, misappropriation or moral turpitude, or which impairs the Participant's ability to perform his or her duties with a Participating Company.
"Cause"
 
(g) means, unless such term or an equivalent term is otherwise defined with respect to an Award by the Participant's Award Agreement or by a written contract of employment or service, the occurrence of any of the following:
"Change in Control"
 
(i) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than (1) a trustee or other fiduciary holding stock of the Company under an employee benefit plan of a Participating Company or (2) a corporation owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the stock of the Company, becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of stock of the Company representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Company's then-outstanding voting stock; or
 
(ii) a change in the composition of the Board over a period of thirty six (36) consecutive months or less such that individuals who, at the beginning of such period, constitute the Board cease, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to constitute at least a majority of the Board, unless the election, or the nomination for election by the stockholders of the Company, of each new Director was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the Directors then still in office who were Directors at the beginning of the period; or
 
(iii) an Ownership Change Event or series of related Ownership Change Events (collectively, a ) in which the stockholders of the Company immediately before the Transaction do not retain immediately after the Transaction direct or indirect beneficial ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company or, in the case of an Ownership Change Event described in Section 2.1(ff)(iii), the entity to which the assets of the Company were transferred (the ), as the case may be; or
"Transaction"
"Transferee"
 
(iv) a liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
For purposes of the preceding sentence, indirect beneficial ownership shall include, without limitation, an interest resulting from ownership of the voting securities of one or more corporations or other business entities which own the Company or the Transferee, as the case may be, either directly or through one or more subsidiary corporations or other business entities. The Committee shall have the right to determine whether multiple sales or exchanges of the voting securities of the Company or multiple Ownership Change Events are related, and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
(h) means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any applicable regulations promulgated thereunder.
"Code"
 
(i) means the Compensation Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee or other committee of the Board duly appointed to administer the Plan and having such powers as shall be specified by the Board. If no committee of the Board has been appointed to administer the Plan, the Board shall exercise all of the powers of the Committee granted herein, and, in any event, the Board may in its discretion exercise any or all of such powers.
"Committee"
 
(j) means E*TRADE Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation thereto.
"Company"
 
(k) means a person engaged to provide consulting or advisory services (other than as an Employee or a member of the Board) to a Participating Company, provided that the identity of such person, the nature of such services or the entity to which such services are provided would not preclude the Company from offering or selling securities to such person pursuant to the Plan in reliance on registration on a Form S-8 Registration Statement under the Securities Act.
"Consultant"
 
(l) means any Employee who is or may become a "covered employee" as defined in Section 162(m), or any successor statute, and who is designated, either as an individual Employee or a member of a class of Employees, by the Committee no later than (i) the date ninety (90) days after the beginning of the Performance Period, or (ii) the date on which twenty-five percent (25%) of the Performance Period has elapsed, as a "Covered Employee" under this Plan for such applicable Performance Period.
"Covered Employee"
 
(m) means an award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 11.
"Deferred Compensation Award"
 
(n) means a member of the Board.
"Director"
 
(o) means the permanent and total disability of the Participant, within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
"Disability"
 
(p) means a credit, made at the discretion of the Committee or as otherwise provided by the Plan, to the account of a Participant in an amount equal to the cash dividends paid on one share of Stock for each share of Stock represented by an Award held by such Participant.
"Dividend Equivalent"
 
(q) means any person treated as an employee (including an Officer or a member of the Board who is also treated as an employee) in the records of a Participating Company; provided, however, that neither service as a member of the Board nor payment of a director's fee shall be sufficient to constitute employment for purposes of the Plan. The Company shall determine in good faith and in the exercise of its discretion whether an individual has become or has ceased to be an Employee and the effective date of such individual's employment or termination of employment, as the case may be. For purposes of an individual's rights, if any, under the terms of the Plan as of the time of the Company's determination of whether or not the individual is an Employee, all such determinations by the Company shall be final, binding and conclusive as to such rights, if any, notwithstanding that the Company or any court of law or governmental agency subsequently makes a contrary determination as to such individual's status as an Employee.
"Employee"
 
(r) means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Exchange Act"
 
(s) means, as of any date, the value of a share of Stock or other property as determined by the Committee, in its discretion, or by the Company, in its discretion, if such determination is expressly allocated to the Company herein, subject to the following:
"Fair Market Value"
 
(i) Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, if, on such date, the Stock is listed on a national or regional securities exchange or market system, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be the average of the high and low sale prices of a share of Stock (or the mean of the closing bid and asked prices of a share of Stock if the Stock is so quoted instead) as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange or such other national or regional securities exchange or market system constituting the primary market for the Stock, as reported in or such other source as the Company deems reliable. If the relevant date does not fall on a day on which the Stock has traded on such securities exchange or market system, the date on which the Fair Market Value shall be established shall be the last day on which the Stock was so traded prior to the relevant date, or such other appropriate day as shall be determined by the Committee, in its discretion.
The Wall Street Journal
 
(ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its discretion, determine the Fair Market Value on the basis of the opening, closing, high, low or average sale price of a share of Stock or the actual sale price of a share of Stock received by a Participant, on such date, the preceding trading day or the next succeeding trading day or an
 
average determined over a period of trading days. The Committee may vary its method of determination of the Fair Market Value as provided in this Section for different purposes under the Plan.
 
(iii) If, on such date, the Stock is not listed on a national or regional securities exchange or market system, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be as determined by the Committee in good faith without regard to any restriction other than a restriction which, by its terms, will never lapse.
 
(t) means any Award settled in Stock, other than (i) an Option, (ii) a Stock Appreciation Right, (iii) a Stock Purchase Right or an Other Stock-Based Award under which the Company will receive monetary consideration equal to the Fair Market Value of the shares subject to such Award, (iv) a Deferred Compensation Award which is an elective cash compensation reduction award described in Section 11.1(a) or a stock issuance deferral award described in Section 11.1(b), or (v) an Other Stock-Based award based on appreciation in the Fair Market Value of the Stock.
"Full Value Award"
 
(u) means an Option intended to be (as set forth in the Award Agreement) and which qualifies as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
"Incentive Stock Option"
 
(v) means an Officer, Director or any other person whose transactions in Stock are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
"Insider"
 
(w) means the written policy of the Company pertaining to the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition of the Company's equity securities by Directors, Officers, Employees or other service providers who may possess material, nonpublic information regarding the Company or its securities.
"Insider Trading Policy"
 
(x) means a procedure by which the Participant will be issued a number of shares of Stock determined in accordance with the following formula:
"Net-Exercise"
 
N = X(A-B)/A, where
 
"N" = the number of shares of Stock to be issued to the Participant upon exercise of the Option;
 
"X" = the total number of shares with respect to which the Participant has elected to exercise the Option;
 
"A" = the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Stock determined on the exercise date; and
 
"B" = the exercise price per share (as defined in the Participant's Award Agreement)
 
(y) means a Director who is not an Employee.
"Nonemployee Director"
 
(z) means a Nonemployee Director Option or other Award granted to a Nonemployee Director granted pursuant Section 12.
"Nonemployee Director Award"
 
(aa) means an Option granted to a Nonemployee Director pursuant to Section 12.
"Nonemployee Director Option"
 
(bb) means an Option not intended to be (as set forth in the Award Agreement) an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
"Nonstatutory Stock Option"
 
(cc) means any person designated by the Board as an officer of the Company.
"Officer"
 
(dd) means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option granted pursuant to Section 6 or a Nonemployee Director Option granted pursuant to Section 12.
"Option"
 
(ee) means an Award denominated in shares of Stock and granted pursuant to Section 13.
"Other Stock-Based Award"
 
(ff) means the occurrence of any of the following with respect to the Company: (i) the direct or indirect sale or exchange in a single or series of related transactions by the stockholders of the Company of more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting stock of the Company; (ii) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is a party; or (iii) the sale, exchange, or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (other than a sale, exchange or transfer to one or more subsidiaries of the Company).
"Ownership Change Event"
 
(gg) means any present or future "parent corporation" of the Company, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
"Parent Corporation"
 
(hh) means any eligible person who has been granted one or more Awards.
"Participant"
 
(ii) means the Company or any Parent Corporation, Subsidiary Corporation or Affiliate.
"Participating Company"
 
(jj) means, at any point in time, all entities collectively which are then Participating Companies.
"Participating Company Group"
 
(kk) means an Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units.
"Performance Award"
 
(ll) means, for any Performance Award, a formula or table established by the Committee pursuant to Section 10.3 which provides the basis for computing the value of a Performance Award at one or more threshold levels of attainment of the applicable Performance Goal(s) measured as of the end of the applicable Performance Period.
"Performance Award Formula"
 
(mm) means compensation under an Award that satisfies the requirements of Section 162(m) for certain performance-based compensation paid to Covered Employees.
"Performance-Based Compensation"
 
(nn) means a performance goal established by the Committee pursuant to Section 10.3.
"Performance Goal"
 
(oo) means a period established by the Committee pursuant to Section 10.3 at the end of which one or more Performance Goals are to be measured.
"Performance Period"
 
(pp) means a bookkeeping entry representing a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10 to receive a payment equal to the value of a Performance Share, as determined by the Committee, based on performance.
"Performance Share"
 
(qq) means a bookkeeping entry representing a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10 to receive a payment equal to the value of a Performance Unit, as determined by the Committee, based upon performance.
"Performance Unit"
 
(rr) means the Company's 1996 Stock Incentive Plan.
"Predecessor Plan"
 
(ss) or means a bookkeeping entry representing a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9 or Section 11, respectively, to receive a share of Stock on a date determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 or Section 11, as applicable, and the Participant's Award Agreement.
"Restricted Stock Unit"
"Stock Unit"
 
(tt) means the period established in accordance with Section 8.5 during which shares subject to a Stock Award are subject to Vesting Conditions.
"Restriction Period"
 
(uu) means Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, as amended from time to time, or any successor rule or regulation.
"Rule 16b-3"
 
(vv) or means a bookkeeping entry representing, for each share of Stock subject to such SAR, a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 7 to receive payment of an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR over the exercise price.
"SAR"
"Stock Appreciation Right"
 
(ww) means Section 162(m) of the Code.
"Section 162(m)"
 
(xx) means Section 409A of the Code (including regulations or administrative guidelines thereunder).
"Section 409A"
 
(yy) means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
"Securities Act"
 
(zz) means a Participant's employment or service with the Participating Company Group, whether in the capacity of an Employee, a Director or a Consultant. A Participant's Service shall not be deemed to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Participant renders such Service or a change in the Participating Company for which the Participant renders such Service, provided that there is no interruption or termination of the Participant's Service. Furthermore, a Participant's Service shall not be deemed to have terminated if the Participant takes any military leave, sick leave, or
"Service"
 
other bona fide leave of absence approved by the Company. However, if any such leave taken by a Participant exceeds ninety (90) days, then on the ninety-first (91st) day following the commencement of such leave the Participant's Service shall be deemed to have terminated unless the Participant's right to return to Service is guaranteed by statute or contract. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise designated by the Company, a leave of absence shall be treated as Service for purposes of determining vesting under the Participant's Award Agreement. A Participant's Service shall be deemed to have terminated either upon an actual termination of Service or upon the entity for which the Participant performs Service ceasing to be a Participating Company. Subject to the foregoing, the Company, in its discretion, shall determine whether the Participant's Service has terminated and the effective date of such termination.
 
(aaa) means the common stock of the Company, as adjusted from time to time in accordance with Section 4.4.
"Stock"
 
(bbb) means an Award of a Stock Bonus or a Stock Purchase Right.
"Stock Award"
 
(ccc) means Stock granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 8.
"Stock Bonus"
 
(ddd) means a right to purchase Stock granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 8.
"Stock Purchase Right"
 
(eee) means any present or future "subsidiary corporation" of the Company, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
"Subsidiary Corporation"
 
(fff) means a Participant who, at the time an Option is granted to the Participant, owns stock possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of a Participating Company (other than an Affiliate) within the meaning of Section 422(b)(6) of the Code.
"Ten Percent Owner"
 
(ggg) mean those conditions established in accordance with the Plan prior to the satisfaction of which shares subject to an Award remain subject to forfeiture or a repurchase option in favor of the Company exercisable for the Participant's purchase price for such shares upon the Participant's termination of Service.
"Vesting Conditions"
 
2.2 Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of the Plan. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Use of the term "or" is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
Construction.
 
3.
.
A
DMINISTRATION
 
3.1 The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. All questions of interpretation of the Plan or of any Award shall be determined by the Committee, and such determinations shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Plan or such Award.
Administration by the Committee.
 
3.2 Any Officer shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, determination or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the Officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, determination or election. The Board or Committee may, in its discretion, delegate to a committee comprised of one or more Officers the authority to grant one or more Awards, without further approval of the Board or the Committee, to any Employee, other than a person who, at the time of such grant, is an Insider; provided, however, that (a) such Awards shall not be granted for shares in excess of the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock authorized for issuance pursuant to Section 4.1, (b) each such Award which is a Full Value Award shall be subject to minimum vesting provisions described in Section 5.3(c), (c) each such Award shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the appropriate standard form of Award Agreement approved by the Board or the Committee and shall conform to the provisions of the Plan, and (d) each such Award shall conform to such limits and guidelines as shall be established from time to time by resolution of the Board or the Committee.
Authority of Officers.
 
3.3 With respect to participation by Insiders in the Plan, at any time that any class of equity security of the Company is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, the Plan shall be administered in compliance with the requirements, if any, of Rule 16b-3.
Administration with Respect to Insiders.
 
3.4 If the Company is a "publicly held corporation" within the meaning of Section 162(m), the Board may establish a Committee of "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) to approve the grant of any Award intended to result in the payment of Performance-Based Compensation.
Committee Complying with Section 162(m).
 
3.5 In addition to any other powers set forth in the Plan and subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have the full and final power and authority, in its discretion:
Powers of the Committee.
 
(a) to determine the persons to whom, and the time or times at which, Awards shall be granted and the number of shares of Stock, units or monetary value to be subject to each Award;
 
(b) to determine the type of Award granted;
 
(c) to determine the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock or other property;
 
(d) to determine the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to each Award (which need not be identical) and any shares acquired pursuant thereto, including, without limitation, (i) the exercise or purchase price of shares pursuant to any Award, (ii) the method of payment for shares purchased pursuant to any Award, (iii) the method for satisfaction of any tax withholding obligation arising in connection with Award, including by the
 
withholding or delivery of shares of Stock, (iv) the timing, terms and conditions of the exercisability or vesting of any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto, (v) the Performance Measures, Performance Period, Performance Award Formula and Performance Goals applicable to any Award and the extent to which such Performance Goals have been attained, (vi) the time of the expiration of any Award, (vii) the effect of the Participant's termination of Service on any of the foregoing, and (viii) all other terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to any Award or shares acquired pursuant thereto not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan;
 
(e) to determine whether an Award will be settled in shares of Stock, cash, or in any combination thereof;
 
(f) to approve one or more forms of Award Agreement;
 
(g) to amend, modify, extend, cancel or renew any Award or to waive any restrictions or conditions applicable to any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto;
 
(h) to accelerate, continue, extend or defer the exercisability or vesting of any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto, including with respect to the period following a Participant's termination of Service;
 
(i) without the consent of the affected Participant and notwithstanding the provisions of any Award Agreement to the contrary, to unilaterally substitute at any time a Stock Appreciation Right providing for settlement solely in shares of Stock in place of any outstanding Option, provided that such Stock Appreciation Right covers the same number of shares of Stock and provides for the same exercise price (subject in each case to adjustment in accordance with Section 4.4) as the replaced Option and otherwise provides substantially equivalent terms and conditions as the replaced Option, as determined by the Committee;
 
(j) to prescribe, amend or rescind rules, guidelines and policies relating to the Plan, or to adopt sub-plans or supplements to, or alternative versions of, the Plan, including, without limitation, as the Committee deems necessary or desirable to comply with the laws or regulations of or to accommodate the tax policy, accounting principles or custom of, foreign jurisdictions whose citizens may be granted Awards; and
 
(k) to correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award Agreement and to make all other determinations and take such other actions with respect to the Plan or any Award as the Committee may deem advisable to the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan or applicable law.
 
3.6 Without the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the shares of Stock cast in person or by proxy at a meeting of the stockholders of the Company at which a quorum representing a majority of all outstanding shares of Stock is present or represented by proxy, the Board shall not approve either (a) the cancellation of outstanding Options or SARs and the grant in substitution therefore of new Options or SARs having a lower exercise price or (b) the amendment of outstanding Options or SARs to reduce the exercise price thereof. This paragraph shall not be construed to apply to "issuing or assuming a stock option in a transaction to which section 424(a) applies," within the meaning of Section 424 of the Code.
Option or SAR Repricing.
 
3.7 In addition to such other rights of indemnification as they may have as members of the Board or the Committee or as officers or employees of the Participating Company Group, members of the Board or the Committee and any officers or employees of the Participating Company Group to whom authority to act for the Board, the Committee or the Company is delegated shall be indemnified by the Company against all reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees, actually and necessarily incurred in connection with the defense of any action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with any appeal therein, to which they or any of them may be a party by reason of any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan, or any right granted hereunder, and against all amounts paid by them in settlement thereof (provided such settlement is approved by independent legal counsel selected by the Company) or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding, except in relation to matters as to which it shall be adjudged in such action, suit or proceeding that such person is liable for gross negligence, bad faith or intentional misconduct in duties; provided, however, that within sixty (60) days after the institution of such action, suit or proceeding, such person shall offer to the Company, in writing, the opportunity at its own expense to handle and defend the same.
Indemnification.
 
4. .
S S P
HARES
UBJECT
TO
LAN
 
4.1 Subject to adjustment as provided in Sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan shall be equal to the lesser of (a) the number of shares of Stock available for grant under the Predecessor Plan as of the Effective Date or (b) forty two million (42,000,000) shares, and shall consist of authorized but unissued or reacquired shares of Stock or any combination thereof.
Maximum Number of Shares Issuable.
 
4.2 If an outstanding Award for any reason expires or is terminated or canceled without having been exercised or settled in full, or if shares of Stock acquired pursuant to an Award subject to forfeiture or repurchase are forfeited or repurchased by the Company for an amount not greater than the Participant's original purchase price, the shares of Stock allocable to the terminated portion of such Award or such forfeited or repurchased shares of Stock shall again be available for issuance under the Plan. Shares of Stock shall not be deemed to have been issued pursuant to the Plan with respect to any portion of an Award, other than an Option or SAR, that is settled in cash. Shares withheld or reacquired by the Company in satisfaction of tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 17.2 shall not again be available for issuance under the Plan. Upon payment in shares of Stock pursuant to the exercise of an SAR, the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the gross number of shares for which the SAR is exercised. If the exercise price of an Option is paid by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock owned by the Participant, or by means of a Net-Exercise, the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the gross number of shares for which the Option is exercised.
Share Accounting.
 
4.3 The maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan as set forth in Section 4.1 shall be cumulatively increased from time to time by:
Adjustment for Unissued or Forfeited Predecessor Plan Shares.
 
(a) the number of shares of Stock subject to that portion of any award outstanding pusuant to the Predecessor Plan as of the Effective Date which, on or after such date, expires or is terminated or canceled for any reason without having been exercised or settled; and
 
(b) the number of shares of Stock acquired pursuant to the Predecessor Plan subject to forfeiture or repurchase by the Company which, on or after the Effective Date, are so forfeited or repurchased for an amount not greater than the Participant's original purchase price;
 
provided, however, that the aggregate number of shares of Stock authorized for issuance under the Predecessor Plans that may become authorized for issuance under the Plan pursuant to this Section 4.3 shall not exceed thirty-nine million (39,000,000), subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4.
 
4.4 Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, in the event of any change in the Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of payment of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company in a form other than Stock (excepting normal cash dividends) that has a material effect on the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the number and kind of shares subject to the Plan and to any outstanding Awards, in the maximum adjustment for unissued or forfeited Predecessor Plan shares set forth in Section 4.3, in the Award limits set forth in Section 5.3, in the number of shares subject to Nonemployee Director Options as set forth in Section 12.1 and in the exercise or purchase price per share under any outstanding Award in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants' rights under the Plan. For purposes of the foregoing, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as "effected without receipt of consideration by the Company." If a majority of the shares which are of the same class as the shares that are subject to outstanding Awards are exchanged for, converted into, or otherwise become (whether or not pursuant to an Ownership Change Event) shares of another corporation (the ), the Committee may unilaterally amend the outstanding Awards to provide that such Awards are for New Shares. In the event of any such amendment, the number of shares subject to, and the exercise or purchase price per share of, the outstanding Awards shall be adjusted in a fair and equitable manner as determined by the Committee, in its discretion. Any fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section 4.4 shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number, and in no event may the exercise or purchase price under any Award be decreased to an amount less than the par value, if any, of the stock subject to such Award. The Committee in its sole discretion, may also make such adjustments in the terms of any Award to reflect, or related to, such changes in the capital structure of the Company or distributions as it deems appropriate, including modification of Performance Goals, Performance Award Formulas and Performance Periods. The adjustments determined by the Committee pursuant to this Section 4.4 shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Adjustments for Changes in Capital Structure.
"New Shares"
 
The Committee may, without affecting the number of Shares reserved or available hereunder, authorize the issuance or assumption of benefits under this Plan in connection with any merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, or reorganization upon such terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate, subject to compliance with Sections 409A and 422 and any related guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, where applicable.
 
5.
.
E, P A L
LIGIBILITY
ARTICIPATION
AND
WARD
IMITATIONS
 
5.1 Awards may be granted only to Employees, Consultants and Directors. A Nonemployee Director Award may be granted only to a person who, at the time of grant, is a Nonemployee Director.
Persons Eligible for Awards.
 
5.2 Awards, other than Nonemployee Director Awards, are granted solely at the discretion of the Committee. Eligible persons may be granted more than one Award. However, excepting Nonemployee Director Awards, eligibility in accordance with this Section shall not entitle any person to be granted an Award, or, having been granted an Award, to be granted an additional Award.
Participation in Plan.
 
5.3
Award Limitations.
 
(a)
Incentive Stock Option Limitations.
 
(i) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan pursuant to the exercise of Incentive Stock Options shall not exceed forty two million (42,000,000) shares. The maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan pursuant to all Awards other than Incentive Stock Options shall be the number of shares determined in accordance with Section 4.1, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2, 4.3 and Section 4.4.
Maximum Number of Shares Issuable Pursuant to Incentive Stock Options.
 
(ii) An Incentive Stock Option may be granted only to a person who, on the effective date of grant, is an Employee of the Company, a Parent Corporation or a Subsidiary Corporation (each being an ). Any person who is not an Employee of an ISO-Qualifying Corporation on the effective date of the grant of an Option to such person may be granted only a Nonstatutory Stock Option. An Incentive Stock Option granted to a prospective Employee upon the condition that such person become an Employee of an ISO-Qualifying Corporation shall be deemed granted effective on the date such person commences Service with an ISO-Qualifying Corporation, with an exercise price determined as of such date in accordance with Section 8.2.
Persons Eligible.
"ISO-Qualifying Corporation"
 
(iii) To the extent that options designated as Incentive Stock Options (granted under all stock option plans of the Participating Company Group, including the Plan) become exercisable by a Participant for the first time
Fair Market Value Limitation.
 
during any calendar year for stock having a Fair Market Value greater than One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000), the portion of such options which exceeds such amount shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options. For purposes of this Section, options designated as Incentive Stock Options shall be taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the Fair Market Value of stock shall be determined as of the time the option with respect to such stock is granted. If the Code is amended to provide for a limitation different from that set forth in this Section, such different limitation shall be deemed incorporated herein effective as of the date and with respect to such Options as required or permitted by such amendment to the Code. If an Option is treated as an Incentive Stock Option in part and as a Nonstatutory Stock Option in part by reason of the limitation set forth in this Section, the Participant may designate which portion of such Option the Participant is exercising. In the absence of such designation, the Participant shall be deemed to have exercised the Incentive Stock Option portion of the Option first. Upon exercise, shares issued pursuant to each such portion shall be separately identified.
 
(b) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, in no event shall more than twenty million (20,000,000) shares in the aggregate be issued under the Plan pursuant to Full Value Awards.
Aggregate Limit on Full Value Awards.
 
(c) Except with respect to a maximum of five percent (5%) of the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan, as provided in Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4, any Full Value Award which vests on the basis of the Participant's continued Service shall not provide for vesting which is any more rapid than over a period of three (3) years, and any Full Value Award which vests on the basis of the attainment of performance goals shall not provide for a performance period of less than twelve (12) months; provided, however, that such limitations shall not preclude the acceleration of vesting of any such Award upon the death, disability, retirement or involuntary termination of Service of the Participant or upon or following a Change in Control, as determined by the Committee in its discretion.
Limit on Full Value Awards without Minimum Vesting.
 
(d) The following limits shall apply to the grant of any Award if, at the time of grant, the Company is a "publicly held corporation" within the meaning of Section 162(m).
Section 162(m) Award Limits.
 
(i) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, no Employee shall be granted within any fiscal year of the Company one or more Options or Freestanding SARs which in the aggregate are for more than one million five hundred thousand (1,500,000) shares.
Options and SARs.
 
(ii) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, no Employee shall be granted within any fiscal year of the Company one or more Stock Awards or Restricted Stock Unit Awards, the grant or vesting of which is based on the attainment of Performance Goals, for more than one million five hundred thousand (1,500,000) shares.
Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
 
(iii) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, no Employee shall be granted (1) Performance Shares which could result in such Employee receiving more than one million five hundred thousand (1,500,000) shares for each
Performance Awards.
 
full fiscal year of the Company contained in the Performance Period for such Award, or (2) Performance Units which could result in such Employee receiving more than five million ($5,000,000) for each full fiscal year of the Company contained in the Performance Period for such Award. No Participant may be granted more than one Performance Award for the same Performance Period.
 
(iv) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, no Employee shall be granted (1) Cash-Based Awards in any fiscal year of the Company, the grant or vesting of which is based on the attainment of Performance Goals, which could result in such Employee receiving more than five million ($5,000,000), or (2) Other Stock-Based Awards in any fiscal year of the Company, the grant or vesting of which is based on the attainment of Performance Goals, which could result in such Employee receiving more than one million five hundred thousand (1,500,000) shares.
Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards.
 
6.
.
S O
TOCK
PTIONS
 
Options shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock covered thereby, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Option or purported Option shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Options may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A if applicable, and, except as otherwise set forth in Section 12 with respect to Nonemployee Director Options, shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
6.1 The exercise price for each Option shall be established in the discretion of the Committee; provided, however, that (a) the exercise price per share shall be not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the Option and (b) no Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Owner shall have an exercise price per share less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the Option. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option (whether an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option) may be granted with an exercise price lower than the minimum exercise price set forth above if such Option is granted pursuant to an assumption or substitution for another option in a manner qualifying under the provisions of Section 424(a) of the Code.
Exercise Price.
 
6.2 Options shall be exercisable at such time or times, or upon such event or events, and subject to such terms, conditions, performance criteria and restrictions as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option; provided, however, that (a) no Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years after the effective date of grant of such Option and (b) no Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Owner shall be exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years after the effective date of grant of such Option. Subject to the foregoing, unless otherwise specified by the Committee in the grant of an Option, each Option granted hereunder shall terminate ten (10) years after the effective date of grant of the Option, unless earlier terminated in accordance with its provisions.
Exercisability and Term of Options.
 
6.3
Payment of Exercise Price.
 
(a) Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the exercise price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased pursuant to any Option shall be made (i) in cash or by check or cash equivalent, (ii) by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock owned by the Participant having a Fair Market Value not less than the exercise price, (iii) by delivery of a properly executed notice of exercise together with irrevocable instructions to a broker providing for the assignment to the Company of the proceeds of a sale or loan with respect to some or all of the shares being acquired upon the exercise of the Option (including, without limitation, through an exercise complying with the provisions of Regulation T as promulgated from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) (a ), (iv) by delivery of a properly executed notice electing a Net-Exercise, (v) by such other consideration as may be approved by the Committee from time to time to the extent permitted by applicable law, provided, however, that the Committee shall not permit payment by means of a Participant's promissory note, or (vi) by any combination thereof. The Committee may at any time or from time to time grant Options which do not permit all of the foregoing forms of consideration to be used in payment of the exercise price or which otherwise restrict one or more forms of consideration.
Forms of Consideration Authorized.
"Cashless Exercise"
 
(b)
Limitations on Forms of Consideration.
 
(i) Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock to the extent such tender or attestation would constitute a violation of the provisions of any law, regulation or agreement restricting the redemption of the Company's stock. Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, an Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock unless such shares either have been owned by the Participant for more than six (6) months (or such other period, if any, as the Committee may permit) and not used for another Option exercise by attestation during such period, or were not acquired, directly or indirectly, from the Company.
Tender of Stock.
 
(ii) The Company reserves, at any and all times, the right, in the Company's sole and absolute discretion, to establish, decline to approve or terminate any program or procedures for the exercise of Options by means of a Cashless Exercise, including with respect to one or more Participants specified by the Company notwithstanding that such program or procedures may be available to other Participants.
Cashless Exercise.
 
6.4
Effect of Termination of Service.
 
(a) Subject to earlier termination of the Option as otherwise provided herein and unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the grant of an Option and set forth in the Award Agreement, an Option shall terminate immediately upon the Participant's termination of Service to the extent that it is then unvested and shall be exercisable after the Participant's termination of Service to the extent it is then vested only during the applicable time period determined in accordance with this Section and thereafter shall terminate:
Option Exercisability.
 
(i) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the Disability of the Participant, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant (or the Participant's guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the date of expiration of the Option's term as set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option (the ).
Disability.
"Option Expiration Date"
 
(ii) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the death of the Participant, any unexercisable or unvested portion of the Option shall be immediately exercisable and vested in full on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated and may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by reason of the Participant's death at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. The Participant's Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Participant dies within three (3) months after the Participant's termination of Service.
Death.
 
(iii) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if the Participant's Service is terminated for Cause or if, following the Participant's termination of Service and during any period in which the Option otherwise would remain exercisable, the Participant engages in any act that would constitute Cause for termination of Service, the Option shall terminate in its entirety and cease to be exercisable immediately upon such termination of Service or act.
Termination for Cause.
 
(iv) If the Participant's Service terminates for any reason, except Disability, death or Cause, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable by the Participant on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant (1) at any time prior to the expiration of six (6) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated if the Participant remains subject to the Insider Trading Policy for a period of at least sixty (60) days following the date on which the Participant's Service terminated or (2) at any time prior to the expiration of three (3) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated in the case of any other Participant, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Other Termination of Service.
 
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, other than termination for Cause, if the exercise of an Option within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 6.4(a) is prevented by the provisions of Section 16 below, the Option shall remain exercisable until three (3) months (or such longer period of time as determined by the Committee, in its discretion) after the date the Participant is notified by the Company that the Option is exercisable, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law.
 
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, other than termination for Cause, if a sale within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 6.4(a) of shares acquired upon the exercise of the Option would subject the Participant to suit under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Option shall remain
Extension if Participant Subject to Section 16(b).
 
exercisable until the earliest to occur of (i) the tenth (10th) day following the date on which a sale of such shares by the Participant would no longer be subject to such suit, (ii) the one hundred and ninetieth (190th) day after the Participant's termination of Service, or (iii) the Option Expiration Date.
 
6.5 During the lifetime of the Participant, an Option shall be exercisable only by the Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative. An Option shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Nonstatutory Stock Option shall be assignable or transferable to the extent permitted by the Committee, in its discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option.
Transferability of Options.
 
7.
.
S A R
TOCK
PPRECIATION
IGHTS
 
Stock Appreciation Rights shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No SAR or purported SAR shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing SARs may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A if applicable, and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
7.1 SARs may be granted in tandem with all or any portion of a related Option (a ) or may be granted independently of any Option (a ). A Tandem SAR may only be granted concurrently with the grant of the related Option.
Types of SARs Authorized.
"Tandem SAR"
"Freestanding SAR"
 
7.2 The exercise price for each SAR shall be established in the discretion of the Committee; provided, however, that (a) the exercise price per share subject to a Tandem SAR shall be the exercise price per share under the related Option and (b) the exercise price per share subject to a Freestanding SAR shall be not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the SAR.
Exercise Price.
 
7.3
Exercisability and Term of SARs.
 
(a) Tandem SARs shall be exercisable only at the time and to the extent, and only to the extent, that the related Option is exercisable, subject to such provisions as the Committee may specify where the Tandem SAR is granted with respect to less than the full number of shares of Stock subject to the related Option. The Committee may, in its discretion, provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Tandem SAR that such SAR may not be exercised without the advance approval of the Company and, if such approval is not given, then the Option shall nevertheless remain exercisable in accordance with its terms. A Tandem SAR shall terminate and cease to be exercisable no later than the date on which the related Option expires or is terminated or canceled. Upon the exercise of a Tandem SAR with respect to some or all of the shares subject to such SAR, the related Option shall be canceled
Tandem SARs.
 
automatically as to the number of shares with respect to which the Tandem SAR was exercised. Upon the exercise of an Option related to a Tandem SAR as to some or all of the shares subject to such Option, the related Tandem SAR shall be canceled automatically as to the number of shares with respect to which the related Option was exercised.
 
(b) Freestanding SARs shall be exercisable at such time or times, or upon such event or events, and subject to such terms, conditions, performance criteria and restrictions as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such SAR; provided, however, that no Freestanding SAR shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years after the effective date of grant of such SAR.
Freestanding SARs.
 
7.4 Upon the exercise (or deemed exercise pursuant to Section 7.5) of an SAR, the Participant (or the Participant's legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the SAR by reason of the Participant's death) shall be entitled to receive payment of an amount for each share with respect to which the SAR is exercised equal to the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR over the exercise price. Payment of such amount shall be made (a) in the case of a Tandem SAR, solely in shares of Stock in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the date of exercise of the SAR and (b) in the case of a Freestanding SAR, in cash, shares of Stock, or any combination thereof as determined by the Committee in compliance with Section 409A. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement evidencing a Freestanding SAR, payment shall be made in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the date of exercise of the SAR. The Award Agreement evidencing any Freestanding SAR may provide for deferred payment in a lump sum or in installments in compliance with Section 409A. When payment is to be made in shares of Stock, the number of shares to be issued shall be determined on the basis of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR. For purposes of Section 7, an SAR shall be deemed exercised on the date on which the Company receives notice of exercise from the Participant or as otherwise provided in Section 7.5.
Exercise of SARs.
 
7.5 If, on the date on which an SAR would otherwise terminate or expire, the SAR by its terms remains exercisable immediately prior to such termination or expiration and, if so exercised, would result in a payment to the holder of such SAR, then any portion of such SAR which has not previously been exercised shall automatically be deemed to be exercised as of such date with respect to such portion.
Deemed Exercise of SARs.
 
7.6 Subject to earlier termination of the SAR as otherwise provided herein and unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the grant of an SAR and set forth in the Award Agreement, an SAR shall be exercisable after a Participant's termination of Service only to the extent and during the applicable time period determined in accordance with Section 6.4 (treating the SAR as if it were an Option) and thereafter shall terminate.
Effect of Termination of Service.
 
7.7 During the lifetime of the Participant, an SAR shall be exercisable only by the Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative. An SAR shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and
Nontransferability of SARs.
 
distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Tandem SAR related to a Nonstatutory Stock Option or a Freestanding SAR shall be assignable or transferable to the extent permitted by the Committee, in its discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such SAR.
 
8.
.
S A
TOCK
WARDS
 
Stock Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying whether the Award is a Stock Bonus or a Stock Purchase Right and the number of shares of Stock subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Stock Award or purported Stock Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Stock Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A, if applicable, and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
8.1 Stock Awards may be granted in the form of either a Stock Bonus or a Stock Purchase Right. Stock Awards may be granted upon such conditions as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals described in Section 10.4. If either the grant of a Stock Award or the lapsing of the Restriction Period is to be contingent upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals, the Committee shall follow procedures substantially equivalent to those set forth in Sections 10.3 through 10.5(a).
Types of Stock Awards Authorized.
 
8.2 The purchase price for shares of Stock issuable under each Stock Purchase Right shall be established by the Committee in its discretion. No monetary payment (other than applicable tax withholding) shall be required as a condition of receiving shares of Stock pursuant to a Stock Bonus, the consideration for which shall be services actually rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if required by applicable state corporate law, the Participant shall furnish consideration in the form of cash or past services rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit having a value not less than the par value of the shares of Stock subject to a Stock Award.
Purchase Price.
 
8.3 A Stock Purchase Right shall be exercisable within a period established by the Committee, which shall in no event exceed thirty (30) days from the effective date of the grant of the Stock Purchase Right.
Purchase Period.
 
8.4 Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the purchase price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased pursuant to any Stock Purchase Right shall be made (a) in cash or by check or cash equivalent, (b) by such other consideration as may be approved by the Committee from time to time to the extent permitted by applicable law, or (iii) by any combination thereof. The Committee may at any time or from time to time grant Stock Purchase Rights which do not permit all of the foregoing forms of consideration to be used in payment of the purchase price or which otherwise restrict one or more forms of consideration.
Payment of Purchase Price.
 
8.5 Subject to Section 5.3(c), Shares issued pursuant to any Stock Award may (but need not) be made subject to Vesting Conditions
Vesting and Restrictions on Transfer.
 
based upon the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance criteria, including, without limitation, Performance Goals as described in Section 10.4, as shall be established by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award. During any Restriction Period in which shares acquired pursuant to a Stock Award remain subject to Vesting Conditions, such shares may not be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise disposed of other than pursuant to an Ownership Change Event or as provided in Section 8.8. The Committee, in its discretion, may provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Stock Award that, if the satisfaction of Vesting Conditions with respect to any shares subject to such Stock Award would otherwise occur on a day on which the sale of such shares would violate the Company's Insider Trading Policy, then the satisfaction of the Vesting Conditions automatically be deemed to occur on the next day on which the sale of such shares would not violate the Insider Trading Policy. Upon request by the Company, each Participant shall execute any agreement evidencing such transfer restrictions prior to the receipt of shares of Stock hereunder and shall promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares of Stock acquired hereunder for the placement on such certificates of appropriate legends evidencing any such transfer restrictions.
 
8.6 Except as provided in this Section, Section 8.5 and any Award Agreement, during any Restriction Period applicable to shares subject to a Stock Award, the Participant shall have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company holding shares of Stock, including the right to vote such shares and to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to such shares. However, in the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or other property or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.4, any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant is entitled by reason of the Participant's Stock Award shall be immediately subject to the same Vesting Conditions as the shares subject to the Stock Award with respect to which such dividends or distributions were paid or adjustments were made.
Voting Rights; Dividends and Distributions.
 
8.7 Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the Award Agreement evidencing a Stock Award, if a Participant's Service terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary (including the Participant's death or disability), then (a) the Company shall have the option to repurchase for the purchase price paid by the Participant any shares acquired by the Participant pursuant to a Stock Purchase Right which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participant's termination of Service and (b) the Participant shall forfeit to the Company any shares acquired by the Participant pursuant to a Stock Bonus which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participant's termination of Service. The Company shall have the right to assign at any time any repurchase right it may have, whether or not such right is then exercisable, to one or more persons as may be selected by the Company.
Effect of Termination of Service.
 
8.8 Rights to acquire shares of Stock pursuant to a Stock Award shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to a Stock Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability of Stock Award Rights.
 
9.
.
R S U A
ESTRICTED
TOCK
NIT
WARDS
 
Restricted Stock Unit Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of Restricted Stock Units subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Restricted Stock Unit Award or purported Restricted Stock Unit Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Restricted Stock Units may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A, if applicable, and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
9.1 Restricted Stock Unit Awards may be granted upon such conditions as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals described in Section 10.4. If either the grant of a Restricted Stock Unit Award or the Vesting Conditions with respect to such Award is to be contingent upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals, the Committee shall follow procedures substantially equivalent to those set forth in Sections 10.3 through 10.5(a).
Grant of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
 
9.2 No monetary payment (other than applicable tax withholding, if any) shall be required as a condition of receiving a Restricted Stock Unit Award, the consideration for which shall be services actually rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if required by applicable state corporate law, the Participant shall furnish consideration in the form of cash or past services rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit having a value not less than the par value of the shares of Stock issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Unit Award.
Purchase Price.
 
9.3 Subject to Section 5.3(c), Restricted Stock Unit Awards may (but need not) be made subject to Vesting Conditions based upon the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance criteria, including, without limitation, Performance Goals as described in Section 10.4, as shall be established by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award.
Vesting.
 
9.4 Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Restricted Stock Units until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). However, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Restricted Stock Unit Award that the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalents with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock during the period beginning on the date such Award is granted and ending, with respect to the particular shares subject to the Award, on the earlier of the date the Award is settled or the date on which it is terminated. Such Dividend Equivalents, if any, shall be paid by crediting the Participant with additional whole Restricted Stock Units as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock. The number of
Voting Rights, Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions.
 
additional Restricted Stock Units (rounded to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (a) the amount of cash dividends paid on such date with respect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Restricted Stock Units previously credited to the Participant by (b) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on such date. Such additional Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the same terms and conditions and shall be settled in the same manner and at the same time (or as soon thereafter as practicable) as the Restricted Stock Units originally subject to the Restricted Stock Unit Award. In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or other property or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.4, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participant's Restricted Stock Unit Award so that it represents the right to receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant would entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Award, and all such new, substituted or additional securities or other property shall be immediately subject to the same Vesting Conditions as are applicable to the Award.
 
9.5 Unless otherwise provided by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Unit Award, if a Participant's Service terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary (including the Participant's death or disability), then the Participant shall forfeit to the Company any Restricted Stock Units pursuant to the Award which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participant's termination of Service.
Effect of Termination of Service.
 
9.6 The Company shall issue to a Participant on the date on which Restricted Stock Units subject to the Participant's Restricted Stock Unit Award vest or on such other date determined by the Committee, in its discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement one (1) share of Stock (and/or any other new, substituted or additional securities or other property pursuant to an adjustment described in Section 9.4) for each Restricted Stock Unit then becoming vested or otherwise to be settled on such date, subject to the withholding of applicable taxes. If permitted by the Committee, subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A, the Participant may elect in accordance with terms specified in the Award Agreement to defer receipt of all or any portion of the shares of Stock or other property otherwise issuable to the Participant pursuant to this Section, and such deferred issuance date(s) elected by the Participant shall be set forth in the Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide for settlement of any Restricted Stock Unit Award by payment to the Participant in cash of an amount equal to the Fair Market Value on the payment date of the shares of Stock or other property otherwise issuable to the Participant pursuant to this Section. The Committee, in its discretion, may provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Unit Award that, if the settlement of the Award with respect to any shares would otherwise occur on a day on which the sale of such shares would violate the Company's Insider Trading Policy, then the settlement with respect to such shares shall occur on the next day on which the sale of such shares would not violate the Insider Trading Policy.
Settlement of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
 
9.7 The right to receive shares pursuant to a Restricted Stock Unit Award shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or
Nontransferability of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
 
garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to a Restricted Stock Unit Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
 
10.
.
P A
ERFORMANCE
WARDS
 
Performance Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Performance Award or purported Performance Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Performance Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A, if applicable, and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
10.1 Performance Awards may be granted in the form of either Performance Shares or Performance Units. Each Award Agreement evidencing a Performance Award shall specify the number of Performance Shares or Performance Units subject thereto, the Performance Award Formula, the Performance Goal(s) and Performance Period applicable to the Award, and the other terms, conditions and restrictions of the Award.
Types of Performance Awards Authorized.
 
10.2 Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in granting a Performance Award, each Performance Share shall have an initial monetary value equal to the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Stock, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, on the effective date of grant of the Performance Share, and each Performance Unit shall have an initial monetary value established by the Committee at the time of grant. The final value payable to the Participant in settlement of a Performance Award determined on the basis of the applicable Performance Award Formula will depend on the extent to which Performance Goals established by the Committee are attained within the applicable Performance Period established by the Committee.
Initial Value of Performance Shares and Performance Units.
 
10.3 In granting each Performance Award, the Committee shall establish in writing the applicable Performance Period, Performance Award Formula and one or more Performance Goals which, when measured at the end of the Performance Period, shall determine on the basis of the Performance Award Formula the final value of the Performance Award to be paid to the Participant. Unless otherwise permitted in compliance with the requirements under Section 162(m) with respect to each Performance Award intended to result in the payment of Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee shall establish the Performance Goal(s) and Performance Award Formula applicable to each Performance Award no later than the earlier of (a) the date ninety (90) days after the commencement of the applicable Performance Period or (b) the date on which 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed, and, in any event, at a time when the outcome of the Performance Goals remains substantially uncertain. Once established, the Performance Goals and Performance Award Formula applicable to a Covered Employee shall not be changed during the Performance Period. The Company shall notify each Participant granted a Performance Award of the terms of such Award, including the Performance Period, Performance Goal(s) and Performance Award Formula.
Establishment of Performance Period, Performance Goals and Performance Award Formula.
 
10.4 Performance Goals shall be established by the Committee on the basis of targets to be attained () with respect to one or more measures of business or financial performance (each, a ), subject to the following:
Measurement of Performance Goals.
"
Performance Targets
"
"
Performance Measure
"
 
(a) Performance Measures shall have the same meanings as used in the Company's financial statements, or, if such terms are not used in the Company's financial statements, they shall have the meaning applied pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, or as used generally in the Company's industry. Performance Measures shall be calculated with respect to the Company and each Subsidiary Corporation consolidated therewith for financial reporting purposes or such division or other business unit as may be selected by the Committee. For purposes of the Plan, the Performance Measures applicable to a Performance Award shall be calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but prior to the accrual or payment of any Performance Award for the same Performance Period and excluding the effect (whether positive or negative) of any change in accounting standards or any extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring item, as determined by the Committee, occurring after the establishment of the Performance Goals applicable to the Performance Award. Each such adjustment, if any, shall be made solely for the purpose of providing a consistent basis from period to period for the calculation of Performance Measures in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the Participant's rights with respect to a Performance Award. Performance Measures may be one or more of the following, as determined by the Committee:
Performance Measures.
 
(i) revenue;
 
(ii) sales;
 
(iii) expenses;
 
(iv) operating income;
 
(v) gross margin;
 
(vi) operating margin;
 
(vii) earnings before any one or more of: stock-based compensation expense, interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization;
 
(viii) pre-tax profit;
 
(ix) net operating income;
 
(x) net income;
 
(xi) economic value added;
 
(xii) free cash flow;
 
(xiii) operating cash flow;
 
(xiv) stock price;
 
(xv) earnings per share;
 
(xvi) return on stockholder equity;
 
(xvii) return on capital;
 
(xviii) return on assets;
 
(xix) return on investment;
 
(xx) employee satisfaction;
 
(xxi) employee retention;
 
(xxii) balance of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities;
 
(xxiii) market share;
 
(xxiv) daily average revenue trades;
 
(xxv) asset gathering metrics;
 
(xxvi) number of customers;
 
(xxvii) customer satisfaction;
 
(xxviii) product development;
 
(xxix) completion of a joint venture or other corporate transaction;
 
(xxx) completion of identified special project; and
 
(xxxi) overall effectiveness of management.
 
(b) Performance Targets may include a minimum, maximum, target level and intermediate levels of performance, with the final value of a Performance Award determined under the applicable Performance Award Formula by the level attained during the applicable Performance Period. A Performance Target may be stated as an absolute value or as a value determined relative to an index, budget or other standard selected by the Committee.
Performance Targets.
 
10.5
Settlement of Performance Awards.
 
(a) As soon as practicable following the completion of the Performance Period applicable to a Performance Award, the Committee shall certify in writing the extent to which the applicable Performance Goals have been attained and the resulting final value of the Award earned by the Participant and to be paid upon its settlement in accordance with the applicable Performance Award Formula.
Determination of Final Value.
 
(b) In its discretion, the Committee may, either at the time it grants a Performance Award or at any time thereafter, provide for the positive or negative adjustment of the Performance Award Formula applicable to a Performance Award granted to any Participant who is not a Covered Employee to reflect such Participant's individual performance in his or her position with the Company or such other factors as the Committee may determine. If permitted under a Covered Employee's Award Agreement, the Committee shall have the discretion, on the basis of such criteria as may be established by the Committee, to reduce some or all of the value of the Performance Award that would otherwise be paid to the Covered Employee upon its settlement notwithstanding the attainment of any Performance Goal and the resulting value of the Performance Award determined in accordance with the Performance Award Formula. No such reduction may result in an increase in the amount payable upon settlement of another Participant's Performance Award that is intended to result in Performance-Based Compensation.
Discretionary Adjustment of Award Formula.
 
(c) Unless otherwise required by law or a Participant's Award Agreement, payment of the final value, if any, of a Performance Award held by a Participant who has taken in excess of thirty (30) days in leaves of absence during a Performance Period shall be prorated on the basis of the number of days of the Participant's Service during the Performance Period during which the Participant was not on a leave of absence.
Effect of Leaves of Absence.
 
(d) As soon as practicable following the Committee's determination and certification in accordance with Sections 10.5(a) and (b), the Company shall notify each Participant of the determination of the Committee.
Notice to Participants.
 
(e) Subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A, as soon as practicable following the Committee's determination and certification in accordance with Sections 10.5(a) and (b), payment shall be made to each eligible Participant (or such Participant's legal representative or other person who acquired the right to receive such payment by reason of the Participant's death) of the final value of the Participant's Performance Award. Payment of such amount shall be made in cash, shares of Stock, or a combination thereof as determined by the Committee. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement evidencing a Performance Award, payment shall be made in a lump sum. If permitted by the Committee, and subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A, the Participant may elect to defer receipt of all or any portion of the payment to be made to Participant pursuant to this Section, and such deferred payment date(s) elected by the Participant shall be set forth in the Award Agreement. If any payment is to be made on a deferred basis, the Committee may, but shall not be obligated to, provide for the payment during the deferral period of Dividend Equivalents or interest.
Payment in Settlement of Performance Awards.
 
(f) If payment is to be made in shares of Stock, the number of such shares shall be determined by dividing the final value of the Performance Award by the value of a share of Stock determined by the method specified in the Award Agreement. Such methods may include, without limitation, the closing market price on a specified date (such as the settlement date) or an average of market prices over a series of trading days. Shares of Stock issued in payment of any Performance Award may be fully vested and freely transferable shares or may be shares of Stock subject to Vesting Conditions as provided in Section 8.5. Any shares subject to Vesting Conditions shall be evidenced by an appropriate Award Agreement and shall be subject to the provisions of Sections 8.5 through 8.8 above.
Provisions Applicable to Payment in Shares.
 
10.6 Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Performance Share Awards until the date of the issuance of such shares, if any (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). However, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Performance Share Award that the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalents with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock during the period beginning on the date the Award is granted and ending, with respect to the particular shares subject to the Award, on the earlier of the date on which the Performance Shares are settled or the date on which they are forfeited. Such Dividend Equivalents, if any, shall be credited to the Participant in the form of additional whole Performance Shares as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock. The number of additional Performance Shares (rounded to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (a) the amount of cash dividends paid on the dividend payment date with respect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Performance Shares previously credited to the Participant by (b) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on such date. Dividend Equivalents may be paid currently or may be accumulated and paid to the extent that Performance Shares become nonforfeitable, as determined by the Committee. Settlement of Dividend Equivalents may be made in cash, shares of Stock, or a combination thereof as determined by the Committee, and may be paid on the same basis as settlement of the related Performance Share as provided in Section 10.5. Dividend Equivalents shall not be paid with respect to Performance Units. In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or other property or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.4, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participant's Performance Share Award so that it represents the right to receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant would entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Performance Share Award, and all such new, substituted or additional securities or other property shall be immediately subject to the same Performance Goals as are applicable to the Award.
Voting Rights; Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions.
 
10.7 Unless otherwise provided by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing a Performance Award, the effect of a Participant's termination of Service on the Performance Award shall be as follows:
Effect of Termination of Service.
 
(a) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the death or Disability of the Participant before the completion of the Performance
Death or Disability.
 
Period applicable to the Performance Award, the final value of the Participant's Performance Award shall be determined by the extent to which the applicable Performance Goals have been attained with respect to the entire Performance Period and shall be prorated based on the number of days of the Participant's Service during the Performance Period. Payment shall be made following the end of the Performance Period in any manner permitted by Section 10.5.
 
(b) If the Participant's Service terminates for any reason except death or Disability before the completion of the Performance Period applicable to the Performance Award, such Award shall be forfeited in its entirety.
Other Termination of Service.
 
10.8 Prior to settlement in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, no Performance Award shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to a Performance Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability of Performance Awards.
 
11.
.
D C A
EFERRED
OMPENSATION
WARDS
 
11.1 This Section 11 shall not be effective unless and until the Committee determines to establish a program pursuant to this Section. The Committee, in its discretion and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A, may establish one or more programs pursuant to the Plan under which:
Establishment of Deferred Compensation Award Programs.
 
(a) Participants designated by the Committee who are Insiders or otherwise among a select group of highly compensated Employees may irrevocably elect, prior to a date specified by the Committee and complying with Section 409A, to reduce such Participant's compensation otherwise payable in cash (subject to any minimum or maximum reductions imposed by the Committee) and to be granted automatically at such time or times as specified by the Committee one or more Stock Bonus Awards or Awards of Stock Units with respect to such numbers of shares of Stock as determined in accordance with the rules of the program established by the Committee and having such other terms and conditions as established by the Committee.
Elective Cash Compensation Reduction Awards.
 
(b) Participants designated by the Committee who are Insiders or otherwise among a select group of highly compensated Employees may irrevocably elect, prior to a date specified by the Committee and complying with Section 409A, to be granted automatically an Award of Stock Units with respect to such number of shares of Stock and upon such other terms and conditions as established by the Committee in lieu of:
Stock Issuance Deferral Awards.
 
(i) shares of Stock otherwise issuable to such Participant upon the exercise of an Option;
 
(ii) cash or shares of Stock otherwise issuable to such Participant upon the exercise of an SAR; or
 
(iii) cash or shares of Stock otherwise issuable to such Participant upon the settlement of a Performance Award.
 
11.2 Deferred Compensation Awards granted pursuant to this Section 11 shall be evidenced by Award Agreements in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No such Deferred Compensation Award or purported Deferred Compensation Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Deferred Compensation Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A.
Terms and Conditions of Deferred Compensation Awards.
 
(a) Stock Bonus Awards granted pursuant to this Section 11 shall comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of Section 8.
Terms and Conditions of Stock Bonus Awards.
 
(b) Except as provided below, Stock Units granted pursuant to this Section 11 shall comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of Section 9.
Terms and Conditions of Stock Units.
 
(i) Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Stock Units until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). However, a Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalents with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock during the period beginning on the date the Stock Units are granted automatically to the Participant and ending on the earlier of the date on which such Stock Units are settled or the date on which they are forfeited. Such Dividend Equivalents shall be paid by crediting the Participant with additional whole Stock Units as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock. The number of additional Stock Units (rounded to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (A) the amount of cash dividends paid on the dividend payment date with respect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Stock Units previously credited to the Participant by (B) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on such date. Such additional Stock Units shall be subject to the same terms and conditions and shall be settled in the same manner and at the same time (or as soon thereafter as practicable) as the Stock Units originally subject to the Stock Unit Award. In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or other property or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.4, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participant's Stock Unit Award so that it represents the right to receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant would entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Award.
Voting Rights; Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions.
 
(ii) A Participant electing to receive an Award of Stock Units pursuant to this Section 11 shall specify at the time of such
Settlement of Stock Unit Awards.
 
election a settlement date with respect to such Award which complies with Section 409A. The Company shall issue to the Participant on the settlement date elected by the Participant, or as soon thereafter as practicable, a number of whole shares of Stock equal to the number of vested Stock Units subject to the Stock Unit Award. Such shares of Stock shall be fully vested, and the Participant shall not be required to pay any additional consideration (other than applicable tax withholding) to acquire such shares.
 
12.
.
N D A
ONEMPLOYEE
IRECTOR
WARDS
 
Nonemployee Director Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock covered thereby, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Nonemployee Director Award or purported Nonemployee Director Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Such Award Agreements may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A if applicable, and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions.
 
12.1
Automatic Grant of Nonemployee Director Options.
 
(a) Each person who first becomes a Nonemployee Director on or after the Effective Date and who has not previously been an Employee shall be granted automatically and without further action of the Committee on the date such person first becomes a Nonemployee Director an Option (an ) to purchase a number of shares of Stock established from time to time by resolution of the Committee, but in any event not in excess of fifty thousand (50,000) shares of Stock.
Initial Option.
"Initial Option"
 
(b) Each Nonemployee Director (including any Director who previously did not qualify as a Nonemployee Director but who subsequently becomes a Nonemployee Director) shall be granted automatically and without further action of the Committee on the date of each annual meeting of the stockholders of the Company (the ), commencing with the Annual Meeting held in 2005 and continuing for each Annual Meeting held thereafter during the term of the Plan, immediately following which such person remains a Nonemployee Director, an Option (an ) to purchase a number of shares of Stock established from time to time by resolution of the Committee, but in any event not in excess of twenty thousand (20,000) shares of Stock, increased by a number of shares of Stock, if any, determined in accordance with Section 12.1(c) below; provided, however, that a Nonemployee Director granted an Initial Option on, or within a period of six (6) months prior to, the date of an Annual Meeting shall not be granted an Annual Option pursuant to this Section 12.1(b) with respect to the same Annual Meeting.
Annual Option.
"Annual Meeting"
"Annual Option"
 
(c) The Committee may provide, in its discretion, that the number of shares of Stock subject to an Annual Option granted to a Nonemployee Director shall be increased on the basis of the Nonemployee Director's Board committee assignments for the fiscal year of the Company in which the Annual Option is granted as follows:
Enhancement of Annual Option for Committee Service.
 
(i) for each Board committee on which the Nonemployee Director serves other than as the chairman of the committee, a number of shares of Stock established from time to time by resolution of the Committee, but in any event not in excess of ten thousand (10,000) shares of Stock; and
 
(ii) for each Board committee on which the Nonemployee Director serves as the chairman of the committee, a number of shares of Stock established from time to time by resolution of the Committee, but in any event not in excess of twenty thousand (20,000) shares of Stock.
 
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, any person may elect not to receive a Nonemployee Director Option by delivering written notice of such election to the Board no later than the day prior to the date such Nonemployee Director Option would otherwise be granted. A person who has declined a Nonemployee Director Option may revoke such election by delivering written notice of such revocation to the Board no later than the day prior to the date such Nonemployee Director Option would be granted pursuant to Section 12.1(a) or (b), as the case may be.
Right to Decline Nonemployee Director Option.
 
12.2 Except as provided by this Section, Nonemployee Director Options shall comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of Section 6.
Terms and Conditions of Nonemployee Director Options.
 
(a) The exercise price per share of Stock subject to a Nonemployee Director Option shall be the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant of the Nonemployee Director Option.
Exercise Price.
 
(b) Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or in the Award Agreement evidencing a Nonemployee Director Option and provided that the Participant's Service has not terminated prior to the relevant date, each Nonemployee Director Option shall vest and become exercisable as set forth below and shall terminate and cease to be exercisable on the tenth (10th) anniversary of the date of grant of the Nonemployee Director Option, unless earlier terminated in accordance with the terms of the Plan or the Award Agreement evidencing such Option.
Exercisability and Term of Nonemployee Director Options.
 
(i) Each Initial Option shall vest and become exercisable in four (4) substantially equal installments on each of the first four (4) anniversaries of the date of grant of the Option, provided that the Participant's Service has not terminated prior to the applicable date.
Initial Options.
 
(ii) Each Annual Option shall vest and become exercisable in two (2) substantially equal installments on each of the first two (2) anniversaries of the date of grant of the Option, provided the Participant's Service has not terminated prior to the applicable date.
Annual Options.
 
(c)
Effect of Termination of Service.
 
(i) Subject to earlier termination of the Nonemployee Director Option as otherwise provided herein, a Nonemployee Director Option shall be exercisable after the Participant's termination of Service only during the applicable time period determined in accordance with this Section and thereafter shall terminate:
Option Exercisability.
 
(1) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the Disability of the Participant, any unexercisable or unvested portion of the Nonemployee Director Option shall be immediately exercisable and vested in full on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated and may be exercised by the Participant (or the Participant's guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Disability.
 
(2) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the death of the Participant, any unexercisable or unvested portion of the Nonemployee Director Option shall be immediately exercisable and vested in full on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated and may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the Nonemployee Director Option by reason of the Participant's death at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. The Participant's Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Participant dies within three (3) months after the Participant's termination of Service.
Death.
 
(3) If the Participant's Service terminates for any reason, except Disability or death, the Nonemployee Director Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable by the Participant on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Other Termination of Service.
 
(ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the exercise of a Nonemployee Director Option within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 12.2(c)(i) is prevented by the provisions of Section 16 below, the Nonemployee Director Option shall remain exercisable until three (3) months after the date the Participant is notified by the Company that the Nonemployee Director Option is exercisable, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law.
 
(iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a sale within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 12.2(c)(i) of shares acquired upon the exercise of the Nonemployee Director Option would subject the Participant to suit under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Nonemployee Director Option shall remain exercisable until the earliest to occur of (i) the tenth (10th) day following the date on which a sale of such shares by the Participant would no longer be subject to such suit, (ii) the one hundred and ninetieth (190th) day after the Participant's termination of Service, or (iii) the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Participant Subject to Section 16(b).
 
12.3 In lieu of the automatic grant of any Initial Option or Annual Option to any one or more Nonemployee Directors, the Committee, in its discretion, may substitute one or more Stock Appreciation Rights Awards, Stock Awards or Restricted Stock Unit Awards, or any combination thereof, provided that all such Awards granted in lieu of a Nonemployee Director Option shall have an aggregate fair value not in excess of the fair value of the type of Nonemployee Director Option to be replaced (determined on the basis of the maximum number of shares authorized for such type of Nonemployee Director Option pursuant to Section 12.1). For the purposes of this Section, fair value shall be determined in a manner that complies with the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, as amended from time to time, or any successor standard thereto. Any such alternative Nonemployee Director Award shall be subject to substantially the same terms and conditions (including time of grant, exercise price and effect of termination of Service in the case of an SAR, and vesting) as the Nonemployee Director Option it replaces and shall otherwise be subject to the appropriate terms and conditions, as determined by the Committee, applicable to such Award as set forth in Section 7, Section 8 or Section 9.
Alternative Nonemployee Director Awards.
 
13.
.
C-B A O S-B A
ASH
ASED
WARDS
AND
THER
TOCK
ASED
WARDS
 
Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No such Award or purported Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A, if applicable, and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
13.1 . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Cash-Based Awards to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions, including the achievement of performance criteria, as the Committee may determine.
Grant of Cash-Based Awards
 
13.2 . The Committee may grant other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards not otherwise described by the terms of this Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted securities, stock-equivalent units, stock appreciation units, securities or debentures convertible into common stock or other forms determined by the Committee) in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. Such Awards may involve the transfer of actual shares of Stock to Participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value of Stock and may include, without limitation, Awards designed to comply with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the United States.
Grant of Other Stock-Based Awards
 
13.3 . Each Cash-Based Award shall specify a monetary payment amount or payment range as determined by the Committee. Each Other Stock-Based Award shall be expressed in terms of shares of Stock or
Value of Cash-Based and Other Stock-Based Awards
 
units based on such shares of Stock, as determined by the Committee. The Committee may require the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance criteria, including, without limitation, Performance Goals as described in Section 10.4, as shall be established by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award. If the Committee exercises its discretion to establish performance criteria, the final value of Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards that will be paid to the Participant will depend on the extent to which the performance criteria are met. The establishment of performance criteria with respect to the grant or vesting of any Cash-Based Award or Other Stock-Based Award intended to result in Performance-Based Compensation shall follow procedures substantially equivalent to those applicable to Performance Awards set forth in Section 10.
 
13.4 . Payment or settlement, if any, with respect to a Cash-Based Award or an Other Stock-Based Award shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Award, in cash, shares of Stock or other securities or any combination thereof as the Committee determines. The determination and certification of the final value with respect to any Cash-Based Award or Other Stock-Based Award intended to result in Performance-Based Compensation shall comply with the requirements applicable to Performance Awards set forth in Section 10. To the extent applicable, payment or settlement with respect to each Cash-Based Award and Other Stock-Based Award shall be made in compliance with the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Code Section 409A.
Payment or Settlement of Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards
 
13.5 Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Other Stock-Based Awards until the date of the issuance of such shares of Stock (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), if any, in settlement of such Award. However, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Other Stock-Based Award that the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalents with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock during the period beginning on the date such Award is granted and ending, with respect to the particular shares subject to the Award, on the earlier of the date the Award is settled or the date on which it is terminated. Such Dividend Equivalents, if any, shall be paid in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 9.4. Dividend Equivalent rights shall not be granted with respect to Cash-Based Awards.
Voting Rights; Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions.
 
13.6 . Each Award Agreement evidencing a Cash-Based Award or Other Stock-Based Award shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain such Award following termination of the Participant's Service. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, need not be uniform among all Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
Effect of Termination of Service
 
13.7 Prior to the payment or settlement of a Cash-Based Award or Other Stock-Based Award, the Award shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the
Nontransferability of Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards.
 
Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The Committee may impose such additional restrictions on any shares of Stock issued in settlement of Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, minimum holding period requirements, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such shares of Stock are then listed and/or traded, or under any state securities laws applicable to such shares of Stock.
 
14.
.
S F A A
TANDARD
ORMS
OF
WARD
GREEMENT
 
14.1 Each Award shall comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the appropriate form of Award Agreement approved by the Committee and as amended from time to time. Any Award Agreement may consist of an appropriate form of Notice of Grant and a form of Agreement incorporated therein by reference, or such other form or forms as the Committee may approve from time to time.
Award Agreements.
 
14.2 The Committee shall have the authority from time to time to vary the terms of any standard form of Award Agreement either in connection with the grant or amendment of an individual Award or in connection with the authorization of a new standard form or forms; provided, however, that the terms and conditions of any such new, revised or amended standard form or forms of Award Agreement are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan.
Authority to Vary Terms.
 
15.
.
C C
HANGE
IN
ONTROL
 
15.1 Subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A if applicable, the Committee may provide for any one or more of the following:
Effect of Change in Control on Options and SARs.
 
(a) The Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide in any Award Agreement or, in the event of a Change in Control, may take such actions as it deems appropriate to provide for the acceleration of the exercisability and vesting in connection with such Change in Control of any or all outstanding Options and SARs and shares acquired upon the exercise of such Options and SARs upon such conditions, including termination of the Participant's Service prior to, upon, or following such Change in Control, and to such extent as the Committee shall determine.
Accelerated Vesting.
 
(b) In the event of a Change in Control, the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing entity or parent thereof, as the case may be (the ), may, without the consent of any Participant, either assume or continue the Company's rights and obligations under outstanding Options and SARs or substitute for outstanding Options and SARs substantially equivalent options and SARs (as the case may be) for the Acquiror's stock. Any Options or SARs which are neither assumed or continued by the Acquiror in connection with the Change in Control nor exercised as of the time of consummation of the Change in Control shall terminate and cease to be outstanding effective as of the time of consummation of the Change in Control.
Assumption or Substitution.
"Acquiror"
 
(c) The Committee may, in its sole discretion and without the consent of any Participant, determine that, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each or any Option or SAR outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control shall be canceled in exchange for a payment with respect to each vested share (and each unvested share, if so determined by the Committee) of Stock subject to such canceled Option or SAR in (i) cash, (ii) stock of the Company or of a corporation or other business entity a party to the Change in Control, or (iii) other property which, in any such case, shall be in an amount having a Fair Market Value equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the consideration to be paid per share of Stock in the Change in Control over the exercise price per share under such Option or SAR (the ). In the event such determination is made by the Committee, the Spread (reduced by applicable withholding taxes, if any) shall be paid to Participants in respect of the vested portion of their canceled Options and SARs as soon as practicable following the date of the Change in Control and in respect of the unvested portion of their canceled Options and SARs in accordance with the vesting schedule applicable to such Awards as in effect prior to the Change in Control.
Cash-Out.
"Spread"
 
15.2 Subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A if applicable, the Committee may, in its discretion, provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award or Performance Award for, or in the event of a Change in control may take such actions as it deems appropriate to provide for, the lapsing of the Restriction Period applicable to the shares subject to the Stock Award (and, in the case of Restricted Stock Units and Performance Awards, acceleration of the vesting and settlement of such Award) upon such conditions, including termination of the Participant's Service prior to, upon, or following such Change in Control, and to such extent as the Committee shall determine.
Effect of Change in Control on Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Unit Awards and Performance Awards.
 
15.3 Subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A if applicable, the Committee may, in its discretion, provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Deferred Compensation Award that, in the event of a Change in Control, the Stock Awards or Stock Units pursuant to such Award shall become vested and, in the case of Stock Units, shall be settled effective as of the date of the Change in Control to such extent as specified in such Award Agreement.
Effect of Change in Control on Deferred Compensation Awards.
 
15.4 Subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A if applicable, any unexercisable or unvested portion of each outstanding Nonemployee Director Option or other Award granted pursuant to Section 12 and any shares acquired pursuant thereto shall be immediately exercisable and vested in full as of the date of the Change in Control. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, each Nonemployee Director Option or other Award shall be subject to the applicable provisions of this Section 15.
Effect of Change in Control on Nonemployee Director Awards.
 
15.5 Subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A if applicable, the Committee may, in its discretion, provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Cash-Based Award or Other Stock-Based Award for, or in the event of a Change in control may take such actions as it deems appropriate to provide for, acceleration of the vesting and
Effect of Change in Control on Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards.
 
settlement of such Award upon such conditions, including termination of the Participant's Service prior to, upon, or following such Change in Control, and to such extent as the Committee shall determine.
 
16.
.
C S L
OMPLIANCE
WITH
ECURITIES
AW
 
The grant of Awards and the issuance of shares of Stock pursuant to any Award shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state and foreign law with respect to such securities and the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed. In addition, no Award may be exercised or shares issued pursuant to an Award unless (a) a registration statement under the Securities Act shall at the time of such exercise or issuance be in effect with respect to the shares issuable pursuant to the Award or (b) in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the shares issuable pursuant to the Award may be issued in accordance with the terms of an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares hereunder shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. As a condition to issuance of any Stock, the Company may require the Participant to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
 
17.
.
T W
AX
ITHHOLDING
 
17.1 The Company shall have the right to deduct from any and all payments made under the Plan, or to require the Participant, through payroll withholding, cash payment or otherwise, to make adequate provision for, the federal, state, local and foreign taxes, if any, required by law to be withheld by the Participating Company Group with respect to an Award or the shares acquired pursuant thereto. The Company shall have no obligation to deliver shares of Stock, to release shares of Stock from an escrow established pursuant to an Award Agreement, or to make any payment in cash under the Plan until the Participating Company Group's tax withholding obligations have been satisfied by the Participant.
Tax Withholding in General.
 
17.2 The Company shall have the right, but not the obligation, to deduct from the shares of Stock issuable to a Participant upon the exercise or settlement of an Award, or to accept from the Participant the tender of, a number of whole shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value, as determined by the Company, equal to all or any part of the tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group. The Fair Market Value of any shares of Stock withheld or tendered to satisfy any such tax withholding obligations shall not exceed the amount determined by the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates.
Withholding in Shares.
 
18.
.
A T P
MENDMENT
OR
ERMINATION
OF
LAN
 
The Committee may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time. However, without the approval of the Company's stockholders, there shall be (a) no increase in the
 
maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan (except by operation of the provisions of Section 4.4), (b) no change in the class of persons eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options, and (c) no other amendment of the Plan that would require approval of the Company's stockholders under any applicable law, regulation or rule, including the rules of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed. No amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall affect any then outstanding Award unless expressly provided by the Committee. Except as provided by the next sentence, no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan may adversely affect any then outstanding Award without the consent of the Participant. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion and without the consent of any Participant, amend the Plan or any Award Agreement, to take effect retroactively or otherwise, as it deems necessary or advisable for the purpose of conforming the Plan or such Award Agreement to any present or future law, regulation or rule applicable to the Plan, including, but not limited to, Section 409A.
 
19.
.
C S 409A
OMPLIANCE
WITH
ECTION
 
19.1 The provisions of this Section 19 shall apply to any Award or portion thereof that is or becomes subject to Section 409A, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in the Plan or the Award Agreement applicable to such Award. Awards subject to Section 409A include, without limitation:
Awards Subject to Section 409A.
 
(a) Any Nonstatutory Stock Option that permits the deferral of compensation other than the deferral of recognition of income until the exercise of the Award.
 
(b) Each Deferred Compensation Award.
 
(c) Any Restricted Stock Unit Award, Performance Award, Cash-Based Award or Other Stock-Based Award that either (i) provides by its terms for settlement of all or any portion of the Award on one or more dates following the Short-Term Deferral Period (as defined below) or (ii) permits or requires the Participant to elect one or more dates on which the Award will be settled.
 
Subject to any applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated pursuant to Section 409A or other applicable guidance, the term " means the period ending on the later of (i) the date that is two and one-half months from the end of the Company's fiscal year in which the applicable portion of the Award is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture or (ii) the date that is two and one-half months from the end of the Participant's taxable year in which the applicable portion of the Award is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture. For this purpose, the term "substantial risk of forfeiture" shall have the meaning set forth in any applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated pursuant to Section 409A or other applicable guidance.
Short-Term Deferral Period
"
 
19.2 Except as otherwise permitted or required by Section 409A or any applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated pursuant
Deferral and/or Distribution Elections.
 
to Section 409A or other applicable guidance, the following rules shall apply to any deferral and/or distribution elections (each, an "") that may be permitted or required by the Committee pursuant to an Award subject to Section 409A:
Election
 
(a) All Elections must be in writing and specify the amount of the distribution in settlement of an Award being deferred, as well as the time and form of distribution as permitted by this Plan.
 
(b) All Elections shall be made by the end of the Participant's taxable year prior to the year in which services commence for which an Award may be granted to such Participant; provided, however, that if the Award qualifies as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Section 409A and is based on services performed over a period of at least twelve (12) months, then the Election may be made no later than six (6) months prior to the end of such period.
 
(c) Elections shall continue in effect until a written election to revoke or change such Election is received by the Company, except that a written election to revoke or change such Election must be made prior to the last day for making an Election determined in accordance with paragraph (b) above or as permitted by Section 19.3.
 
19.3 Any Award subject to Section 409A which permits a subsequent Election to delay the distribution or change the form of distribution in settlement of such Award shall comply with the following requirements:
Subsequent Elections.
 
(a) No subsequent Election may take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the subsequent Election is made;
 
(b) Each subsequent Election related to a distribution in settlement of an Award not described in Section 19.4(b), 19.4(c), or 19.4(f) must result in a delay of the distribution for a period of not less than five (5) years from the date such distribution would otherwise have been made; and
 
(c) No subsequent Election related to a distribution pursuant to Section 19.4(d) shall be made less than twelve (12) months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment under such distribution.
 
19.4 No distribution in settlement of an Award subject to Section 409A may commence earlier than:
Distributions Pursuant to Deferral Elections.
 
(a) Separation from service (as determined by the Secretary of the United States Treasury);
 
(b) The date the Participant becomes Disabled (as defined below);
 
(c) Death;
 
(d) A specified time (or pursuant to a fixed schedule) that is either (i) specified by the Committee upon the grant of an Award and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award or (ii) specified by the Participant in an Election complying with the requirements of Section 19.2 and/or 19.3, as applicable;
 
(e) To the extent provided by the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, a change in the ownership or effective control or the Company or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company; or
 
(f) The occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency (as defined below).
 
Notwithstanding anything else herein to the contrary, to the extent that a Participant is a "Specified Employee" (as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i)) of the Company, no distribution pursuant to Section 19.4(a) in settlement of an Award subject to Section 409A may be made before the date which is six (6) months after such Participant's date of separation from service, or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death.
 
19.5 . The Committee shall have the authority to provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Award subject to Section 409A for distribution in settlement of all or a portion of such Award in the event that a Participant establishes, to the satisfaction of the Committee, the occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency. In such event, the amount(s) distributed with respect to such Unforeseeable Emergency cannot exceed the amounts necessary to satisfy such Unforeseeable Emergency plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of such distribution(s), after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise or by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship). All distributions with respect to an Unforeseeable Emergency shall be made in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the Committee's determination that an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred.
Unforeseeable Emergency
 
The occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency shall be judged and determined by the Committee. The Committee's decision with respect to whether an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred and the manner in which, if at all, the distribution in settlement of an Award shall be altered or modified, shall be final, conclusive, and not subject to approval or appeal.
 
19.6 The Committee shall have the authority to provide in any Award subject to Section 409A for distribution in settlement of such Award in the event that the Participant becomes Disabled. A Participant shall be considered "Disabled" if either:
Disabled.
 
(a) the Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, or
 
(b) the Participant is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Participant's employer.
 
All distributions payable by reason of a Participant becoming Disabled shall be paid in a lump sum or in periodic installments as established by the Participant's Election, commencing as soon as practicable following the date the Participant becomes Disabled. If the Participant has made no Election with respect to distributions upon becoming Disabled, all such distributions shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the date the Participant becomes Disabled.
 
19.7 . If a Participant dies before complete distribution of amounts payable upon settlement of an Award subject to Section 409A, such undistributed amounts shall be distributed to his or her beneficiary under the distribution method for death established by the Participant's Election as soon as administratively possible following receipt by the Committee of satisfactory notice and confirmation of the Participant's death. If the Participant has made no Election with respect to distributions upon death, all such distributions shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the date of the Participant's death.
Death
 
19.8 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, this Plan does not permit the acceleration of the time or schedule of any distribution under this Plan, except as provided by Section 409A and/or the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury.
No Acceleration of Distributions.
 
20.
.
M P
ISCELLANEOUS
ROVISIONS
 
20.1 Shares issued under the Plan may be subject to one or more repurchase options, or other conditions and restrictions as determined by the Committee in its discretion at the time the Award is granted. The Company shall have the right to assign at any time any repurchase right it may have, whether or not such right is then exercisable, to one or more persons as may be selected by the Company. Upon request by the Company, each Participant shall execute any agreement evidencing such transfer restrictions prior to the receipt of shares of Stock hereunder and shall promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares of Stock acquired hereunder for the placement on such certificates of appropriate legends evidencing any such transfer restrictions.
Repurchase Rights.
 
20.2
Forfeiture Events.
 
(a) The Committee may specify in an Award Agreement that the Participant's rights, payments, and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture, or recoupment upon the occurrence of specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events may include, but shall not be limited to, termination of Service for Cause or any act by a Participant, whether before or after termination of Service, that would constitute Cause for termination of Service.
 
(b) If the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company, as a result of misconduct, with any financial
 
reporting requirement under the securities laws, any Participant who knowingly or through gross negligence engaged in the misconduct, or who knowingly or through gross negligence failed to prevent the misconduct, and any Participant who is one of the individuals subject to automatic forfeiture under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, shall reimburse the Company the amount of any payment in settlement of an Award earned or accrued during the twelve- (12-) month period following the first public issuance or filing with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (whichever first occurred) of the financial document embodying such financial reporting requirement.
 
20.3 Each Participant shall be given access to information concerning the Company equivalent to that information generally made available to the Company's common stockholders.
Provision of Information.
 
20.4 No person, even though eligible pursuant to Section 5, shall have a right to be selected as a Participant, or, having been so selected, to be selected again as a Participant. Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan shall confer on any Participant a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or Director or interfere with or limit in any way any right of a Participating Company to terminate the Participant's Service at any time. To the extent that an Employee of a Participating Company other than the Company receives an Award under the Plan, that Award shall in no event be understood or interpreted to mean that the Company is the Employee's employer or that the Employee has an employment relationship with the Company.
Rights as Employee, Consultant or Director.
 
20.5 A Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by an Award until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such shares are issued, except as provided in Section 4.4 or another provision of the Plan.
Rights as a Stockholder.
 
20.6 Subject to any governing rules or regulations, the Company shall issue or cause to be issued the shares of Stock acquired pursuant to an Award and shall deliver such shares to or for the benefit of the Participant by means of one or more of the following: (a) by delivering to the Participant evidence of book entry shares of Stock credited to the account of the Participant, (b) by depositing such shares of Stock for the benefit of the Participant with any broker with which the Participant has an account relationship, or (c) by delivering such shares of Stock to the Participant in certificate form.
Delivery of Title to Shares.
 
20.7 The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares upon the exercise or settlement of any Award.
Fractional Shares.
 
20.8 . Neither Awards made under this Plan nor shares of Stock or cash paid pursuant to such Awards may be included as "compensation" for purposes of computing the benefits payable to any Participant under any Participating Company's retirement plans (both qualified and non-qualified) or welfare benefit plans unless such other plan expressly provides that such compensation shall be taken into account in computing a Participant's benefit.
Retirement and Welfare Plans
 
20.9 Subject to local laws and procedures, each Participant may file with the Company a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any benefit under the Plan to which the Participant is entitled in the event of such Participant's death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit. Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participant's lifetime. If a married Participant designates a beneficiary other than the Participant's spouse, the effectiveness of such designation may be subject to the consent of the Participant's spouse. If a Participant dies without an effective designation of a beneficiary who is living at the time of the Participant's death, the Company will pay any remaining unpaid benefits to the Participant's legal representative.
Beneficiary Designation.
 
20.10 . If any one or more of the provisions (or any part thereof) of this Plan shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such provision shall be modified so as to make it valid, legal and enforceable, and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions (or any part thereof) of the Plan shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
20.11 Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to: (a) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Company's or another Participating Company's right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets; or, (b) limit the right or power of the Company or another Participating Company to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
No Constraint on Corporate Action.
 
20.12 Participants shall have the status of general unsecured creditors of the Company. Any amounts payable to Participants pursuant to the Plan shall be unfunded and unsecured obligations for all purposes, including, without limitation, Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. No Participating Company shall be required to segregate any monies from its general funds, or to create any trusts, or establish any special accounts with respect to such obligations. The Company shall retain at all times beneficial ownership of any investments, including trust investments, which the Company may make to fulfill its payment obligations hereunder. Any investments or the creation or maintenance of any trust or any Participant account shall not create or constitute a trust or fiduciary relationship between the Committee or any Participating Company and a Participant, or otherwise create any vested or beneficial interest in any Participant or the Participant's creditors in any assets of any Participating Company. The Participants shall have no claim against any Participating Company for any changes in the value of any assets which may be invested or reinvested by the Company with respect to the Plan.
Unfunded Obligation.
 
20.13 Except to the extent governed by applicable federal law, the validity, interpretation, construction and performance of the Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to its conflict of law rules.
Choice of Law.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned Secretary of the Company certifies that the foregoing sets forth the E*TRADE Financial Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan as duly adopted by the Board on , 2005.
                    
 
 
 
 
E*Trade Financial Corporation has granted to the Participant named in the (the ) to which this Stock Option Agreement (the ) is attached an option (the ) to purchase certain shares of Stock upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Notice and this Option Agreement. The Option has been granted pursuant to and shall in all respects be subject to the terms and conditions of the E*Trade Financial Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the ), as amended to the Date of Grant, the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference. By signing the Grant Notice, the Participant: (a) acknowledges receipt of and represents that the Participant has read and is familiar with the Grant Notice, this Option Agreement, the Plan and a prospectus for the Plan in the form most recently registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ), (b) accepts the Option subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Grant Notice, this Option Agreement and the Plan and (c) agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Committee upon any questions arising under the Grant Notice, this Option Agreement or the Plan.
Notice of Grant of Stock Option
"
Grant Notice
"
"
Option Agreement
"
"
Option
"
"
Plan
"
"
Plan Prospectus
"
 
1.
.
D C
EFINITIONS
AND
ONSTRUCTION
 
1.1 Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Grant Notice or the Plan.
Definitions.
 
1.2 Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this Option Agreement. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Use of the term "or" is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
Construction.
 
2.
.
T C
AX
ONSEQUENCES
 
2.1 This Option is intended to have the tax status designated in the Grant Notice.
Tax Status of Option.
 
(a) If the Grant Notice so designates, this Option is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code, but the Company does not represent or warrant that this Option qualifies as such. The Participant should consult with the Participant's own tax advisor regarding the tax effects of this Option and the requirements necessary to obtain favorable income tax treatment under Section 422 of the Code, including, but not limited to, holding period requirements. (NOTE TO PARTICIPANT: If the Option is exercised more than three (3) months after the date on which you cease to be an Employee (other than by reason of your death or permanent and total disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code), the Option will be treated as a Nonstatutory Stock Option and not as an Incentive Stock Option to the extent required by Section 422 of the Code.)
Incentive Stock Option.
(b) If the Grant Notice so designates, this Option is intended to be a Nonstatutory Stock Option and shall not be treated as an Incentive Stock Option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
Nonstatutory Stock Option.
 
2.2 then to the extent that the Option (together with all Incentive Stock Options granted to the Participant under all stock option plans of the Participating Company Group, including the Plan) becomes exercisable for the first time during any calendar year for shares having a Fair Market Value greater than One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000), the portion of such options which exceeds such amount will be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options. For purposes of this Section 2.2, options designated as Incentive Stock Options are taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the Fair Market Value of stock is determined as of the time the option with respect to such stock is granted. If the Code is amended to provide for a different limitation from that set forth in this Section 2.2, such different limitation shall be deemed incorporated herein effective as of the date required or permitted by such amendment to the Code. If the Option is treated as an Incentive Stock Option in part and as a Nonstatutory Stock Option in part by reason of the limitation set forth in this Section 2.2, the Participant may designate which portion of such Option the Participant is exercising. In the absence of such designation, the Participant shall be deemed to have exercised the Incentive Stock Option portion of the Option first. Separate certificates representing each such portion shall be issued upon the exercise of the Option. (NOTE TO PARTICIPANT: If the aggregate Exercise Price of the Option (that is, the Exercise Price multiplied by the Number of Option Shares) plus the aggregate exercise price of any other Incentive Stock Options you hold (whether granted pursuant to the Plan or any other stock option plan of the Participating Company Group) is greater than $100,000, you should contact the Chief Financial Officer of the Company to ascertain whether the entire Option qualifies as an Incentive Stock Option.)
ISO Fair Market Value Limitation.
If the Grant Notice designates this Option as an Incentive Stock Option,
 
3.
.
A
DMINISTRATION
 
All questions of interpretation concerning this Option Agreement shall be determined by the Committee. All determinations by the Committee shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Option. Any Officer shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the Officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, or election.
 
4.
.
E O
XERCISE
OF
THE
PTION
 
4.1 Except as otherwise provided herein, the Option shall be exercisable on and after the Initial Vesting Date and prior to the termination of the Option (as provided in Section 6) in an amount not to exceed the number of Vested Shares less the number of shares previously acquired upon exercise of the Option. In no event shall the Option be exercisable for more shares than the Number of Option Shares, as adjusted pursuant to Section 9.
Right to Exercise.
 
4.2 Exercise of the Option shall be by means of electronic or written notice (the ) in a form authorized by the Company. An electronic Exercise Notice must be digitally signed or authenticated by the Participant in such manner as required by the notice and transmitted to the Company or an authorized representative of the Company (including a third-party administrator designated by the Company). In the event that the Participant is not authorized or is unable to provide an electronic Exercise Notice, the Option shall be exercised by a written Exercise Notice addressed to the Company, which shall be signed by the Participant and delivered in person, by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, by confirmed facsimile transmission, or by such other means as the Company may permit, to the Company, or an authorized representative of the Company (including a third-party administrator designated by the Company). Each Exercise Notice, whether electronic or written, must state the Participant's election to exercise the Option, the number of whole shares of Stock for which the Option is being exercised and such other representations and agreements as to the Participant's investment intent with respect to such shares as may be required pursuant to the provisions of this Option Agreement. Further, each Exercise Notice must be received by the Company prior to the termination of the Option as set forth in Section 6 and must be accompanied by full payment of the aggregate Exercise Price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased. The Option shall be deemed to be exercised upon receipt by the Company of such electronic or written Exercise Notice and the aggregate Exercise Price.
Method of Exercise.
"
Exercise Notice
"
 
4.3
Payment of Exercise Price.
 
(a) Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the aggregate Exercise Price for the number of shares of Stock for which the Option is being exercised shall be made (i) in cash or by check or cash equivalent, (ii) if permitted by the Company, by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of whole shares of Stock owned by the Participant having a Fair Market Value not less than the aggregate Exercise Price, (iii) by means of a Cashless Exercise, as defined in Section 4.3(b), or (iv) by any combination of the foregoing.
Forms of Consideration Authorized.
 
(b)
Limitations on Forms of Consideration.
 
(i) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock to the extent such tender or attestation would constitute a violation of the provisions of any law, regulation or agreement restricting the redemption of the Company's stock. If required by the Company, the Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock unless such shares either have been owned by the Participant for more than six (6) months or such other period, if any, required by the Company (and not used for another option exercise by attestation during such period) or were not acquired, directly or indirectly, from the Company.
Tender of Stock.
 
(ii) A means the delivery of a properly executed notice together with irrevocable instructions to a broker in a form acceptable to the Company providing for the assignment to the Company of the proceeds of a sale or loan with respect to some or all of the shares of Stock acquired upon the exercise of the
Cashless Exercise.
"
Cashless Exercise
"
 
Option pursuant to a program or procedure approved by the Company (including, without limitation, through an exercise complying with the provisions of Regulation T as promulgated from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System). The Company reserves, at any and all times, the right, in the Company's sole and absolute discretion, to establish, decline to approve or terminate any such program or procedure, including with respect to the Participant notwithstanding that such program or procedures may be available to others.
 
4.4 At the time the Option is exercised, in whole or in part, or at any time thereafter as requested by the Company, the Participant hereby authorizes withholding from payroll and any other amounts payable to the Participant, and otherwise agrees to make adequate provision for (including by means of a Cashless Exercise to the extent permitted by the Company), any sums required to satisfy the federal, state, local and foreign tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group, if any, which arise in connection with the Option. The Company shall have no obligation to deliver shares of Stock until the tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group have been satisfied by the Participant.
Tax Withholding.
 
4.5 The Participant hereby authorizes the Company, in its sole discretion, to deposit for the benefit of the Participant with any broker with which the Participant has an account relationship of which the Company has notice any or all shares acquired by the Participant pursuant to the exercise of the Option. Except as provided by the preceding sentence, a certificate for the shares as to which the Option is exercised shall be registered in the name of the Participant, or, if applicable, in the names of the heirs of the Participant.
Beneficial Ownership of Shares; Certificate Registration.
 
4.6 The grant of the Option and the issuance of shares of Stock upon exercise of the Option shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state or foreign law with respect to such securities. The Option may not be exercised if the issuance of shares of Stock upon exercise would constitute a violation of any applicable federal, state or foreign securities laws or other law or regulations or the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed. In addition, the Option may not be exercised unless (i) a registration statement under the Securities Act shall at the time of exercise of the Option be in effect with respect to the shares issuable upon exercise of the Option or (ii) in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the shares issuable upon exercise of the Option may be issued in accordance with the terms of an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. THE PARTICIPANT IS CAUTIONED THAT THE OPTION MAY NOT BE EXERCISED UNLESS THE FOREGOING CONDITIONS ARE SATISFIED. ACCORDINGLY, THE PARTICIPANT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EXERCISE THE OPTION WHEN DESIRED EVEN THOUGH THE OPTION IS VESTED. The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares subject to the Option shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. As a condition to the exercise of the Option, the Company may require the Participant to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
Restrictions on Grant of the Option and Issuance of Shares.
 
4.7 The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares upon the exercise of the Option.
Fractional Shares.
 
5.
.
N O
ONTRANSFERABILITY
OF
THE
PTION
 
During the lifetime of the Participant, the Option shall be exercisable only by the Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative. The Option shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Following the death of the Participant, the Option, to the extent provided in Section 7, may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative or by any person empowered to do so under the deceased Participant's will or under the then applicable laws of descent and distribution.
 
6.
.
T O
ERMINATION
OF
THE
PTION
 
The Option shall terminate and may no longer be exercised after the first to occur of (a) the close of business on the Option Expiration Date, (b) the close of business on the last date for exercising the Option following termination of the Participant's Service as described in Section 7, or (c) a Change in Control to the extent provided in Section 8.
 
7.
.
E T S
FFECT
OF
ERMINATION
OF
ERVICE
 
7.1 The Option shall terminate immediately upon the Participant's termination of Service to the extent that it is then unvested and shall be exercisable after the Participant's termination of Service to the extent it is then vested only during the applicable time period as determined below and thereafter shall terminate.
Option Exercisability.
 
(a) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the Disability of the Participant, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable for Vested Shares on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant (or the Participant's guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Disability.
 
(b) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the death of the Participant, any unexercisable or unvested portion of the Option shall be immediately exercisable and vested in full on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated and may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by reason of the Participant's death at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. The Participant's Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Participant dies within three (3) months after the Participant's termination of Service.
Death.
 
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Option Agreement to the contrary, if the Participant's Service is terminated for Cause or if, following the Participant's termination of Service and during any period in which the Option otherwise would remain exercisable, the Participant engages in any act that would constitute Cause for termination of Service, the Option shall terminate in its entirety and cease to be exercisable immediately upon such termination of Service or act.
Termination for Cause.
 
(d) . If the Participant's Service ceases as a result of an Involuntary Termination After Change in Control (as defined below), the Option (or any equivalent benefit provided under Section 8, below) shall become immediately vested and exercisable in full on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated and may be exercised by the Participant within the time periods set forth in Section 7.1(e) below. Unless otherwise defined in a contract of employment or service between the Participant and a Participating Company, for purposes of this Option Agreement "" shall mean termination by the Participating Company Group of Participant's Service with the Participating Company Group for any reason other than for Cause within eighteen (18) months after a Change in Control.
Involuntary Termination After Change in Control
Involuntary Termination After Change in Control
 
(e) If the Participant's Service terminates for any reason, except Disability, death or Cause, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable for Vested Shares by the Participant on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated. In no event may the Option be exercised later than the Option Expiration Date.
Other Termination of Service.
 
7.2 Notwithstanding the foregoing other than termination of the Participant's Service for Cause, if the exercise of the Option within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 7.1 is prevented by the provisions of Section 4.6, the Option shall remain exercisable until three (3) months after the date the Participant is notified by the Company that the Option is exercisable, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law.
 
7.3 Notwithstanding the foregoing other than termination of the Participant's Service for Cause, if a sale within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 7.1 of shares acquired upon the exercise of the Option would subject the Participant to suit under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Option shall remain exercisable until the earliest to occur of (i) the tenth (10th) day following the date on which a sale of such shares by the Participant would no longer be subject to such suit, (ii) the one hundred and ninetieth (190th) day after the Participant's termination of Service, or (iii) the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Participant Subject to Section 16(b).
 
8. .
E C C
FFECT
OF
HANGE
IN
ONTROL
 
In the event of a Change in Control, the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing entity or parent thereof, as the case may be (the ), may, without the consent of the Participant, (a) assume or continue in full force and effect the Company's rights and obligations under the Option, (b) substitute for the Option a substantially equivalent option for the Acquiror's stock or (c) provide for cancellation of the Option in exchange for a payment with respect to each share of Stock subject to such canceled Option in cash, stock of the Acquiror or other property which, in any such case, shall be in an amount having a Fair Market Value equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the consideration to be paid per share of Stock in the Change in Control over the exercise price per share under such Option (a ""), with payment with respect to the unvested portion of the canceled Option being made in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in the Grant Notice. In the event the Acquiror elects not to assume or continue the Company's rights and obligations under the Option, substitute for the Option in connection with the Change in Control or implement a Cash-Out, any unexercised portion of the Option shall become immediately exercisable and vested in full as of the date of the Change in Control, provided that the Participant's Service has not terminated prior to such date. Any exercise of the Option that was permissible solely by reason of this Section shall be conditioned upon the consummation of the Change in Control. The Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding effective as of the date of the Change in Control to the extent that the Option is neither assumed or continued by the Acquiror in connection with the Change in Control nor exercised as of the date of the Change in Control.
"
Acquiror
"
Cash-Out
 
9.
A C C S.
DJUSTMENTS
FOR
HANGES
IN
APITAL
TRUCTURE
 
Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, in the event of any change in the Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of payment of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company in a form other than Stock (excepting normal cash dividends) that has a material effect on the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the number, Exercise Price and kind of shares subject to the Option, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the Participant's rights under the Option. For purposes of the foregoing, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as "effected without receipt of consideration by the Company." Any fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number, and in no event may the Exercise Price be decreased to an amount less than the par value, if any, of the stock subject to the Option. The Committee in its sole discretion, may also make such adjustments in the terms of the Option to reflect, or related to, such changes in the capital structure of the Company or distributions as it deems appropriate. The adjustments determined by the Committee pursuant to this Section shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
10.
.
R S, D, E C
IGHTS
AS
A
TOCKHOLDER
IRECTOR
MPLOYEE
OR
ONSULTANT
 
The Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by the Option until the date of the issuance of the shares for which the Option has been exercised (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date the shares are issued, except as provided in Section 9. If the Participant is an Employee, the Participant understands and acknowledges that, except as otherwise provided in a separate, written employment agreement between a Participating Company and the Participant, the Participant's employment is "at will" and is for no specified term. Nothing in this Option Agreement shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the Service of a Participating Company or interfere in any way with any right of the Participating Company Group to terminate the Participant's Service as a Director, an Employee or Consultant, as the case may be, at any time.
 
11.
.
N S U D D
OTICE
OF
ALES
PON
ISQUALIFYING
ISPOSITION
 
The Participant shall dispose of the shares acquired pursuant to the Option only in accordance with the provisions of this Option Agreement. In addition, the Participant shall (a) promptly notify the Chief Financial Officer of the Company if the Participant disposes of any of the shares acquired pursuant to the Option within one (1) year after the date the Participant exercises all or part of the Option or within two (2) years after the Date of Grant and (b) provide the Company with a description of the circumstances of such disposition. Until such time as the Participant disposes of such shares in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Option Agreement, unless otherwise expressly authorized by the Company, the Participant shall hold all shares acquired pursuant to the Option in the Participant's name (and not in the name of any nominee) for the one-year period immediately after the exercise of the Option and the two-year period immediately after Date of Grant. At any time during the one-year or two-year periods set forth above, the Company may place a legend on any certificate representing shares acquired pursuant to the Option requesting the transfer agent for the Company's stock to notify the Company of any such transfers. The obligation of the Participant to notify the Company of any such transfer shall continue notwithstanding that a legend has been placed on the certificate pursuant to the preceding sentence.
if the Grant Notice designates this Option as an Incentive Stock Option,
 
12.
.
L
EGENDS
 
The Company may at any time place legends referencing any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law restrictions on all certificates representing shares of stock subject to the provisions of this Option Agreement. The Participant shall, at the request of the Company, promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares acquired pursuant to the Option in the possession of the Participant in order to carry out the provisions of this Section. Unless otherwise specified by the Company, legends placed on such certificates may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
 
12.1 "THE SHARES EVIDENCED BY THIS CERTIFICATE WERE ISSUED BY THE CORPORATION TO THE REGISTERED HOLDER UPON EXERCISE OF AN INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION AS DEFINED IN SECTION 422 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED ("ISO). IN ORDER TO OBTAIN THE PREFERENTIAL TAX TREATMENT AFFORDED TO ISOs, THE SHARES SHOULD NOT BE TRANSFERRED PRIOR TO []. SHOULD THE REGISTERED HOLDER ELECT TO TRANSFER ANY OF THE SHARES PRIOR TO THIS DATE AND FOREGO ISO TAX TREATMENT, THE TRANSFER AGENT FOR THE SHARES SHALL NOTIFY THE CORPORATION IMMEDIATELY. THE REGISTERED HOLDER SHALL HOLD ALL SHARES PURCHASED UNDER THE INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION IN THE REGISTERED HOLDER'S NAME (AND NOT IN THE NAME OF ANY NOMINEE) PRIOR TO THIS DATE OR UNTIL TRANSFERRED AS DESCRIBED ABOVE."
"
INSERT DISQUALIFYING DISPOSITION DATE HERE
 
13.
.
M P
ISCELLANEOUS
ROVISIONS
 
13.1 The Committee may terminate or amend the Plan or the Option at any time; provided, however, that except as provided in Section 8 in connection with a Change in Control, no such termination or amendment may adversely affect the Option or any unexercised portion hereof without the consent of the Participant unless such termination or amendment is necessary to comply with any applicable law or government regulation. No amendment or addition to this Option Agreement shall be effective unless in writing.
Termination or Amendment.
 
13.2 The parties hereto agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may reasonably be necessary to carry out the intent of this Option Agreement.
Further Instruments.
 
13.3 Subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth herein, this Option Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
Binding Effect.
 
13.4 Any document relating to participation in the Plan or any notice required or permitted hereunder shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given (except to the extent that this Option Agreement provides for effectiveness only upon actual receipt of such notice) upon personal delivery, electronic delivery at the e-mail address, if any, provided for the Participant by a Participating Company, or upon deposit in the U.S. Post Office or foreign postal service, by registered or certified mail, or with a nationally recognized overnight courier service, with postage and fees prepaid, addressed to the other party at the address shown below that party's signature to the Grant Notice or at such other address as such party may designate in writing from time to time to the other party.
Delivery of Documents and Notices.
 
(a) The Plan documents, which may include but do not necessarily include: the Plan, the Grant Notice, this Option Agreement, the Plan Prospectus, and any reports of the Company provided generally to the Company's stockholders, may be delivered to the Participant electronically. In addition, the Participant may deliver electronically the Grant Notice and Exercise Notice called for by Section 4.2 to the
Description of Electronic Delivery.
 
Company or to such third party involved in administering the Plan as the Company may designate from time to time. Such means of electronic delivery may include but do not necessarily include the delivery of a link to a Company intranet or the internet site of a third party involved in administering the Plan, the delivery of the document via e-mail or such other means of electronic delivery specified by the Company.
 
(b) The Participant acknowledges that the Participant has read Section 13.4(a) of this Option Agreement and consents to the electronic delivery of the Plan documents and the delivery of the Grant Notice and Exercise Notice, as described in Section 13.4(a). The Participant acknowledges that he or she may receive from the Company a paper copy of any documents delivered electronically at no cost to the Participant by contacting the Company by telephone or in writing. The Participant further acknowledges that the Participant will be provided with a paper copy of any documents if the attempted electronic delivery of such documents fails. Similarly, the Participant understands that the Participant must provide the Company or any designated third party administrator with a paper copy of any documents if the attempted electronic delivery of such documents fails. The Participant may revoke his or her consent to the electronic delivery of documents described in Section 13.4(a) or may change the electronic mail address to which such documents are to be delivered (if Participant has provided an electronic mail address) at any time by notifying the Company of such revoked consent or revised e-mail address by telephone, postal service or electronic mail. Finally, the Participant understands that he or she is not required to consent to electronic delivery of documents described in Section 13.4(a).
Consent to Electronic Delivery.
 
13.5 The Grant Notice, this Option Agreement and the Plan, together with any employment, service or other agreement between the Participant and a Participating Company referring to the Option, shall constitute the entire understanding and agreement of the Participant and the Participating Company Group with respect to the subject matter contained herein and supersede any prior agreements, understandings, restrictions, representations, or warranties among the Participant and the Participating Company Group with respect to such subject matter. To the extent contemplated herein, the provisions of the Grant Notice, the Option Agreement and the Plan shall survive any exercise of the Option and shall remain in full force and effect.
Integrated Agreement.
 
13.6 This Option Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California as such laws are applied to agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed entirely within the State of California.
Applicable Law.
 
13.7 The Grant Notice may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
 
 
 
E*Trade Financial Corporation
Attention: Human Resources
Operations and Systems
10951 White Rock Road
Rancho Cordova, CA 95670
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
1. I was granted an option (the ) to purchase shares of the common stock (the ) of E*Trade Financial Corporation (the "") pursuant to the Company's 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the ), my Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the ) and my Stock Option Agreement (the ) as follows:
.
Option
"
Option
"
"
Shares
"
Company
"
Plan
"
"
Grant Notice
"
"
Option Agreement
"
 
 
2. I hereby elect to exercise the Option to purchase the following number of Shares, all of which are Vested Shares in accordance with the Grant Notice and the Option Agreement:
.
Exercise of Option
 
 
3. I enclose payment in full of the total exercise price for the Shares in the following form(s), as authorized by my Option Agreement:
.
Payments
 
4. I authorize payroll withholding and otherwise will make adequate provision for the federal, state, local and foreign tax withholding obligations of the Company, if any, in connection with the Option. If I am exercising a Nonstatutory Stock Option, I enclose payment in full of my withholding taxes, if any, as follows:
.
Tax Withholding
 
 
 
5.
.
P I
ARTICIPANT
NFORMATION
 
 
6. If the Option is an Incentive Stock Option, I agree that I will promptly notify the Chief Financial Officer of the Company if I transfer any of the Shares within one (1) year from the date I exercise all or part of the Option or within two (2) years of the Date of Grant.
.
Notice of Disqualifying Disposition
 
7. I agree that the Shares are being acquired in accordance with and subject to the terms, provisions and conditions of the Grant Notice, the Option Agreement and the Plan, to all of which I hereby expressly assent. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon my heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
.
Binding Effect
 
 
Receipt of the above is hereby acknowledged.
 
 
 
E*Trade Financial Corporation has granted to the Participant named in the (the ) to which this Stock Option Agreement (the ) is attached an option (the ) to purchase certain shares of Stock upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Notice and this Option Agreement. The Option has been granted pursuant to and shall in all respects be subject to the terms and conditions of the E*Trade Financial Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the ), as amended to the Date of Grant, the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference. By signing the Grant Notice, the Participant: (a) acknowledges receipt of and represents that the Participant has read and is familiar with the Grant Notice, this Option Agreement, the Plan and a prospectus for the Plan in the form most recently registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ), (b) accepts the Option subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Grant Notice, this Option Agreement and the Plan and (c) agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Committee upon any questions arising under the Grant Notice, this Option Agreement or the Plan.
Notice of Grant of Stock Option
"
Grant Notice
"
"
Option Agreement
"
"
Option
"
"
Plan
"
"
Plan Prospectus
"
 
1.
.
D C
EFINITIONS
AND
ONSTRUCTION
 
1.1 Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Grant Notice or the Plan.
Definitions.
 
1.2 Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this Option Agreement. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Use of the term "or" is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
Construction.
 
2.
.
T C
AX
ONSEQUENCES
 
2.1 This Option is intended to have the tax status designated in the Grant Notice.
Tax Status of Option.
 
(a) If the Grant Notice so designates, this Option is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code, but the Company does not represent or warrant that this Option qualifies as such. The Participant should consult with the Participant's own tax advisor regarding the tax effects of this Option and the requirements necessary to obtain favorable income tax treatment under Section 422 of the Code, including, but not limited to, holding period requirements. (NOTE TO PARTICIPANT: If the Option is exercised more than three (3) months after the date on which you cease to be an Employee (other than by reason of your death or permanent and total disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code), the Option will be treated as a Nonstatutory Stock Option and not as an Incentive Stock Option to the extent required by Section 422 of the Code.)
Incentive Stock Option.
(b) If the Grant Notice so designates, this Option is intended to be a Nonstatutory Stock Option and shall not be treated as an Incentive Stock Option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
Nonstatutory Stock Option.
 
2.2 then to the extent that the Option (together with all Incentive Stock Options granted to the Participant under all stock option plans of the Participating Company Group, including the Plan) becomes exercisable for the first time during any calendar year for shares having a Fair Market Value greater than One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000), the portion of such options which exceeds such amount will be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options. For purposes of this Section 2.2, options designated as Incentive Stock Options are taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the Fair Market Value of stock is determined as of the time the option with respect to such stock is granted. If the Code is amended to provide for a different limitation from that set forth in this Section 2.2, such different limitation shall be deemed incorporated herein effective as of the date required or permitted by such amendment to the Code. If the Option is treated as an Incentive Stock Option in part and as a Nonstatutory Stock Option in part by reason of the limitation set forth in this Section 2.2, the Participant may designate which portion of such Option the Participant is exercising. In the absence of such designation, the Participant shall be deemed to have exercised the Incentive Stock Option portion of the Option first. Separate certificates representing each such portion shall be issued upon the exercise of the Option. (NOTE TO PARTICIPANT: If the aggregate Exercise Price of the Option (that is, the Exercise Price multiplied by the Number of Option Shares) plus the aggregate exercise price of any other Incentive Stock Options you hold (whether granted pursuant to the Plan or any other stock option plan of the Participating Company Group) is greater than $100,000, you should contact the Chief Financial Officer of the Company to ascertain whether the entire Option qualifies as an Incentive Stock Option.)
ISO Fair Market Value Limitation.
If the Grant Notice designates this Option as an Incentive Stock Option,
 
3.
.
A
DMINISTRATION
 
All questions of interpretation concerning this Option Agreement shall be determined by the Committee. All determinations by the Committee shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Option. Any Officer shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the Officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, or election.
 
4.
.
E O
XERCISE
OF
THE
PTION
 
4.1 Except as otherwise provided herein, the Option shall be exercisable on and after the Initial Vesting Date and prior to the termination of the Option (as provided in Section 6) in an amount not to exceed the number of Vested Shares less the number of shares previously acquired upon exercise of the Option. In no event shall the Option be exercisable for more shares than the Number of Option Shares, as adjusted pursuant to Section 9.
Right to Exercise.
 
4.2 Exercise of the Option shall be by means of electronic or written notice (the ) in a form authorized by the Company. An electronic Exercise Notice must be digitally signed or authenticated by the Participant in such manner as required by the notice and transmitted to the Company or an authorized representative of the Company (including a third-party administrator designated by the Company). In the event that the Participant is not authorized or is unable to provide an electronic Exercise Notice, the Option shall be exercised by a written Exercise Notice addressed to the Company, which shall be signed by the Participant and delivered in person, by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, by confirmed facsimile transmission, or by such other means as the Company may permit, to the Company, or an authorized representative of the Company (including a third-party administrator designated by the Company). Each Exercise Notice, whether electronic or written, must state the Participant's election to exercise the Option, the number of whole shares of Stock for which the Option is being exercised and such other representations and agreements as to the Participant's investment intent with respect to such shares as may be required pursuant to the provisions of this Option Agreement. Further, each Exercise Notice must be received by the Company prior to the termination of the Option as set forth in Section 6 and must be accompanied by full payment of the aggregate Exercise Price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased. The Option shall be deemed to be exercised upon receipt by the Company of such electronic or written Exercise Notice and the aggregate Exercise Price.
Method of Exercise.
"
Exercise Notice
"
 
4.3
Payment of Exercise Price.
 
(a) Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the aggregate Exercise Price for the number of shares of Stock for which the Option is being exercised shall be made (i) in cash or by check or cash equivalent, (ii) if permitted by the Company, by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of whole shares of Stock owned by the Participant having a Fair Market Value not less than the aggregate Exercise Price, (iii) by means of a Cashless Exercise, as defined in Section 4.3(b), or (iv) by any combination of the foregoing.
Forms of Consideration Authorized.
 
(b)
Limitations on Forms of Consideration.
 
(i) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock to the extent such tender or attestation would constitute a violation of the provisions of any law, regulation or agreement restricting the redemption of the Company's stock. If required by the Company, the Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock unless such shares either have been owned by the Participant for more than six (6) months or such other period, if any, required by the Company (and not used for another option exercise by attestation during such period) or were not acquired, directly or indirectly, from the Company.
Tender of Stock.
 
(ii) A means the delivery of a properly executed notice together with irrevocable instructions to a broker in a form acceptable to the Company providing for the assignment to the Company of the proceeds of a sale or loan with respect to some or all of the shares of Stock acquired upon the exercise of the
Cashless Exercise.
"
Cashless Exercise
"
 
Option pursuant to a program or procedure approved by the Company (including, without limitation, through an exercise complying with the provisions of Regulation T as promulgated from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System). The Company reserves, at any and all times, the right, in the Company's sole and absolute discretion, to establish, decline to approve or terminate any such program or procedure, including with respect to the Participant notwithstanding that such program or procedures may be available to others.
 
4.4 At the time the Option is exercised, in whole or in part, or at any time thereafter as requested by the Company, the Participant hereby authorizes withholding from payroll and any other amounts payable to the Participant, and otherwise agrees to make adequate provision for (including by means of a Cashless Exercise to the extent permitted by the Company), any sums required to satisfy the federal, state, local and foreign tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group, if any, which arise in connection with the Option. The Company shall have no obligation to deliver shares of Stock until the tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group have been satisfied by the Participant.
Tax Withholding.
 
4.5 The Participant hereby authorizes the Company, in its sole discretion, to deposit for the benefit of the Participant with any broker with which the Participant has an account relationship of which the Company has notice any or all shares acquired by the Participant pursuant to the exercise of the Option. Except as provided by the preceding sentence, a certificate for the shares as to which the Option is exercised shall be registered in the name of the Participant, or, if applicable, in the names of the heirs of the Participant.
Beneficial Ownership of Shares; Certificate Registration.
 
4.6 The grant of the Option and the issuance of shares of Stock upon exercise of the Option shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state or foreign law with respect to such securities. The Option may not be exercised if the issuance of shares of Stock upon exercise would constitute a violation of any applicable federal, state or foreign securities laws or other law or regulations or the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed. In addition, the Option may not be exercised unless (i) a registration statement under the Securities Act shall at the time of exercise of the Option be in effect with respect to the shares issuable upon exercise of the Option or (ii) in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the shares issuable upon exercise of the Option may be issued in accordance with the terms of an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. THE PARTICIPANT IS CAUTIONED THAT THE OPTION MAY NOT BE EXERCISED UNLESS THE FOREGOING CONDITIONS ARE SATISFIED. ACCORDINGLY, THE PARTICIPANT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EXERCISE THE OPTION WHEN DESIRED EVEN THOUGH THE OPTION IS VESTED. The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares subject to the Option shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. As a condition to the exercise of the Option, the Company may require the Participant to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
Restrictions on Grant of the Option and Issuance of Shares.
 
4.7 The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares upon the exercise of the Option.
Fractional Shares.
 
5.
.
N O
ONTRANSFERABILITY
OF
THE
PTION
 
During the lifetime of the Participant, the Option shall be exercisable only by the Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative. The Option shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Following the death of the Participant, the Option, to the extent provided in Section 7, may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative or by any person empowered to do so under the deceased Participant's will or under the then applicable laws of descent and distribution.
 
6.
.
T O
ERMINATION
OF
THE
PTION
 
The Option shall terminate and may no longer be exercised after the first to occur of (a) the close of business on the Option Expiration Date, (b) the close of business on the last date for exercising the Option following termination of the Participant's Service as described in Section 7, or (c) a Change in Control to the extent provided in Section 8.
 
7.
.
E T S
FFECT
OF
ERMINATION
OF
ERVICE
 
7.1 The Option shall terminate immediately upon the Participant's termination of Service to the extent that it is then unvested and shall be exercisable after the Participant's termination of Service to the extent it is then vested only during the applicable time period as determined below and thereafter shall terminate.
Option Exercisability.
 
(a) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the Disability of the Participant, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable for Vested Shares on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant (or the Participant's guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Disability.
 
(b) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the death of the Participant, any unexercisable or unvested portion of the Option shall be immediately exercisable and vested in full on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated and may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by reason of the Participant's death at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. The Participant's Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Participant dies within three (3) months after the Participant's termination of Service.
Death.
 
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Option Agreement to the contrary, if the Participant's Service is terminated for Cause or if, following the Participant's termination of Service and during any period in which the Option otherwise would remain exercisable, the Participant engages in any act that would constitute Cause for termination of Service, the Option shall terminate in its entirety and cease to be exercisable immediately upon such termination of Service or act.
Termination for Cause.
 
(d) . If the Participant's Service ceases as a result of an Involuntary Termination After Change in Control (as defined below), the Option (or any equivalent benefit provided under Section 8, below) shall become immediately vested and exercisable in full on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated and may be exercised by the Participant within the time periods set forth in Section 7.1(e) below. Unless otherwise defined in a contract of employment or service between the Participant and a Participating Company, for purposes of this Option Agreement shall mean either of the following events occurring within eighteen (18) months after a Change in Control: (i) termination by the Participating Company Group of Participant's Service with the Participating Company Group for any reason other than for Cause or (ii) Participant's voluntary resignation following (A) a reduction in Participant's level of compensation (including base salary, fringe benefits and target bonus under any corporate performance based bonus or incentive programs) by more than fifteen percent (15%) or (B) a relocation of Participant's place of employment by more than fifty (50) miles, provided and only if such reduction or relocation is effected without the Participant's express written consent. In the event such term, or the substantive equivalent, is defined in a contract of employment or service, such definition will take precedence over this definition.
Involuntary Termination After Change in Control
"
Involuntary Termination After Change in Control
"
 
(e) If the Participant's Service terminates for any reason, except Disability, death or Cause, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable for Vested Shares by the Participant on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated. In no event may the Option be exercised later than the Option Expiration Date.
Other Termination of Service.
 
7.2 Notwithstanding the foregoing other than termination of the Participant's Service for Cause, if the exercise of the Option within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 7.1 is prevented by the provisions of Section 4.6, the Option shall remain exercisable until three (3) months after the date the Participant is notified by the Company that the Option is exercisable, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law.
 
7.3 Notwithstanding the foregoing other than termination of the Participant's Service for Cause, if a sale within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 7.1 of shares acquired upon the exercise of the Option would subject the Participant to suit under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Option shall remain exercisable until the earliest to occur of (i) the tenth (10th) day following the date on which a sale of such shares by the Participant would no longer be subject to such suit, (ii) the one hundred and ninetieth (190th) day after the Participant's termination of Service, or (iii) the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Participant Subject to Section 16(b).
 
8.
.
E C C
FFECT
OF
HANGE
IN
ONTROL
 
In the event of a Change in Control, the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing entity or parent thereof, as the case may be (the ), may, without the consent of the Participant, (a) assume or continue in full force and effect the Company's rights and obligations under the Option, (b) substitute for the Option a substantially equivalent option for the Acquiror's stock or (c) provide for cancellation of the Option in exchange for a payment with respect to each share of Stock subject to such canceled Option in cash, stock of the Acquiror or other property which, in any such case, shall be in an amount having a Fair Market Value equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the consideration to be paid per share of Stock in the Change in Control over the exercise price per share under such Option (a ""), with payment with respect to the unvested portion of the canceled Option being made in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in the Grant Notice. In the event the Acquiror elects not to assume or continue the Company's rights and obligations under the Option, substitute for the Option in connection with the Change in Control or implement a Cash-Out, any unexercised portion of the Option shall become immediately exercisable and vested in full as of the date of the Change in Control, provided that the Participant's Service has not terminated prior to such date. Any exercise of the Option that was permissible solely by reason of this Section shall be conditioned upon the consummation of the Change in Control. The Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding effective as of the date of the Change in Control to the extent that the Option is neither assumed or continued by the Acquiror in connection with the Change in Control nor exercised as of the date of the Change in Control.
"
Acquiror
"
Cash-Out
 
9.
.
A C C S
DJUSTMENTS
FOR
HANGES
IN
APITAL
TRUCTURE
 
Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, in the event of any change in the Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of payment of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company in a form other than Stock (excepting normal cash dividends) that has a material effect on the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the number, Exercise Price and kind of shares subject to the Option, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the Participant's rights under the Option. For purposes of the foregoing, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as "effected without receipt of consideration by the Company." Any fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section shall be
 
rounded down to the nearest whole number, and in no event may the Exercise Price be decreased to an amount less than the par value, if any, of the stock subject to the Option. The Committee in its sole discretion, may also make such adjustments in the terms of the Option to reflect, or related to, such changes in the capital structure of the Company or distributions as it deems appropriate. The adjustments determined by the Committee pursuant to this Section shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
10.
.
R S, D, E C
IGHTS
AS
A
TOCKHOLDER
IRECTOR
MPLOYEE
OR
ONSULTANT
 
The Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by the Option until the date of the issuance of the shares for which the Option has been exercised (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date the shares are issued, except as provided in Section 9. If the Participant is an Employee, the Participant understands and acknowledges that, except as otherwise provided in a separate, written employment agreement between a Participating Company and the Participant, the Participant's employment is "at will" and is for no specified term. Nothing in this Option Agreement shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the Service of a Participating Company or interfere in any way with any right of the Participating Company Group to terminate the Participant's Service as a Director, an Employee or Consultant, as the case may be, at any time.
 
11.
.
N S U D D
OTICE
OF
ALES
PON
ISQUALIFYING
ISPOSITION
 
The Participant shall dispose of the shares acquired pursuant to the Option only in accordance with the provisions of this Option Agreement. In addition, the Participant shall (a) promptly notify the Chief Financial Officer of the Company if the Participant disposes of any of the shares acquired pursuant to the Option within one (1) year after the date the Participant exercises all or part of the Option or within two (2) years after the Date of Grant and (b) provide the Company with a description of the circumstances of such disposition. Until such time as the Participant disposes of such shares in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Option Agreement, unless otherwise expressly authorized by the Company, the Participant shall hold all shares acquired pursuant to the Option in the Participant's name (and not in the name of any nominee) for the one-year period immediately after the exercise of the Option and the two-year period immediately after Date of Grant. At any time during the one-year or two-year periods set forth above, the Company may place a legend on any certificate representing shares acquired pursuant to the Option requesting the transfer agent for the Company's stock to notify the Company of any such transfers. The obligation of the Participant to notify the Company of any such transfer shall continue notwithstanding that a legend has been placed on the certificate pursuant to the preceding sentence.
if the Grant Notice designates this Option as an Incentive Stock Option,
 
12.
.
L
EGENDS
 
The Company may at any time place legends referencing any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law restrictions on all certificates representing shares of stock subject
 
to the provisions of this Option Agreement. The Participant shall, at the request of the Company, promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares acquired pursuant to the Option in the possession of the Participant in order to carry out the provisions of this Section. Unless otherwise specified by the Company, legends placed on such certificates may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
 
12.1 "THE SHARES EVIDENCED BY THIS CERTIFICATE WERE ISSUED BY THE CORPORATION TO THE REGISTERED HOLDER UPON EXERCISE OF AN INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION AS DEFINED IN SECTION 422 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED ("ISO). IN ORDER TO OBTAIN THE PREFERENTIAL TAX TREATMENT AFFORDED TO ISOs, THE SHARES SHOULD NOT BE TRANSFERRED PRIOR TO []. SHOULD THE REGISTERED HOLDER ELECT TO TRANSFER ANY OF THE SHARES PRIOR TO THIS DATE AND FOREGO ISO TAX TREATMENT, THE TRANSFER AGENT FOR THE SHARES SHALL NOTIFY THE CORPORATION IMMEDIATELY. THE REGISTERED HOLDER SHALL HOLD ALL SHARES PURCHASED UNDER THE INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION IN THE REGISTERED HOLDER'S NAME (AND NOT IN THE NAME OF ANY NOMINEE) PRIOR TO THIS DATE OR UNTIL TRANSFERRED AS DESCRIBED ABOVE."
"
INSERT DISQUALIFYING DISPOSITION DATE HERE
 
13.
.
M P
ISCELLANEOUS
ROVISIONS
 
13.1 The Committee may terminate or amend the Plan or the Option at any time; provided, however, that except as provided in Section 8 in connection with a Change in Control, no such termination or amendment may adversely affect the Option or any unexercised portion hereof without the consent of the Participant unless such termination or amendment is necessary to comply with any applicable law or government regulation. No amendment or addition to this Option Agreement shall be effective unless in writing.
Termination or Amendment.
 
13.2 The parties hereto agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may reasonably be necessary to carry out the intent of this Option Agreement.
Further Instruments.
 
13.3 Subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth herein, this Option Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
Binding Effect.
 
13.4 Any document relating to participation in the Plan or any notice required or permitted hereunder shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given (except to the extent that this Option Agreement provides for effectiveness only upon actual receipt of such notice) upon personal delivery, electronic delivery at the e-mail address, if any, provided for the Participant by a Participating Company, or upon deposit in the U.S. Post Office or foreign postal service, by registered or certified mail, or with a nationally recognized overnight courier service, with postage and fees prepaid, addressed to the other party at the address shown below that party's signature to the Grant Notice or at such other address as such party may designate in writing from time to time to the other party.
Delivery of Documents and Notices.
 
(a) The Plan documents, which may include but do not necessarily include: the Plan, the Grant Notice, this Option Agreement, the Plan Prospectus, and any reports of the Company provided generally to the Company's stockholders, may be delivered to the Participant electronically. In addition, the Participant may deliver electronically the Grant Notice and Exercise Notice called for by Section 4.2 to the Company or to such third party involved in administering the Plan as the Company may designate from time to time. Such means of electronic delivery may include but do not necessarily include the delivery of a link to a Company intranet or the internet site of a third party involved in administering the Plan, the delivery of the document via e-mail or such other means of electronic delivery specified by the Company.
Description of Electronic Delivery
.
 
(b) The Participant acknowledges that the Participant has read Section 13.4(a) of this Option Agreement and consents to the electronic delivery of the Plan documents and the delivery of the Grant Notice and Exercise Notice, as described in Section 13.4(a). The Participant acknowledges that he or she may receive from the Company a paper copy of any documents delivered electronically at no cost to the Participant by contacting the Company by telephone or in writing. The Participant further acknowledges that the Participant will be provided with a paper copy of any documents if the attempted electronic delivery of such documents fails. Similarly, the Participant understands that the Participant must provide the Company or any designated third party administrator with a paper copy of any documents if the attempted electronic delivery of such documents fails. The Participant may revoke his or her consent to the electronic delivery of documents described in Section 13.4(a) or may change the electronic mail address to which such documents are to be delivered (if Participant has provided an electronic mail address) at any time by notifying the Company of such revoked consent or revised e-mail address by telephone, postal service or electronic mail. Finally, the Participant understands that he or she is not required to consent to electronic delivery of documents described in Section 13.4(a).
Consent to Electronic Delivery.
 
13.5 The Grant Notice, this Option Agreement and the Plan, together with any employment, service or other agreement between the Participant and a Participating Company referring to the Option, shall constitute the entire understanding and agreement of the Participant and the Participating Company Group with respect to the subject matter contained herein and supersede any prior agreements, understandings, restrictions, representations, or warranties among the Participant and the Participating Company Group with respect to such subject matter. To the extent contemplated herein, the provisions of the Grant Notice, the Option Agreement and the Plan shall survive any exercise of the Option and shall remain in full force and effect.
Integrated Agreement.
 
13.6 This Option Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California as such laws are applied to agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed entirely within the State of California.
Applicable Law.
 
13.7 The Grant Notice may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
 
 
 
E*Trade Financial Corporation
Attention: Human Resources
Operations and Systems
10951 White Rock Road
Rancho Cordova, CA 95670
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
1. I was granted an option (the ) to purchase shares of the common stock (the ) of E*Trade Financial Corporation (the ) pursuant to the Company's 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the ), my Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the ) and my Stock Option Agreement (the ) as follows:
.
Option
"
Option
"
"
Shares
"
"
Company
"
"
Plan
"
"
Grant Notice
"
"
Option Agreement
"
 
 
2. I hereby elect to exercise the Option to purchase the following number of Shares, all of which are Vested Shares in accordance with the Grant Notice and the Option Agreement:
.
Exercise of Option
 
 
3. I enclose payment in full of the total exercise price for the Shares in the following form(s), as authorized by my Option Agreement:
.
Payments
 
4. I authorize payroll withholding and otherwise will make adequate provision for the federal, state, local and foreign tax withholding obligations of the Company, if any, in connection with the Option. If I am exercising a Nonstatutory Stock Option, I enclose payment in full of my withholding taxes, if any, as follows:
.
Tax Withholding
 
 
 
5.
.
Participant Information
 
 
6. If the Option is an Incentive Stock Option, I agree that I will promptly notify the Chief Financial Officer of the Company if I transfer any of the Shares within one (1) year from the date I exercise all or part of the Option or within two (2) years of the Date of Grant.
.
Notice of Disqualifying Disposition
 
7. I agree that the Shares are being acquired in accordance with and subject to the terms, provisions and conditions of the Grant Notice, the Option Agreement and the Plan, to all of which I hereby expressly assent. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon my heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
.
Binding Effect
 
 
Receipt of the above is hereby acknowledged.
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
 
 
 
E*Trade Financial Corporation has granted to the Participant named in the (the ) to which this Stock Option Agreement (the ) is attached an option (the ) to purchase certain shares of Stock upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Notice and this Option Agreement. The Option has been granted pursuant to and shall in all respects be subject to the terms and conditions of the E*Trade Financial Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the ), as amended to the Date of Grant, the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference. By signing the Grant Notice, the Participant: (a) acknowledges receipt of and represents that the Participant has read and is familiar with the Grant Notice, this Option Agreement, the Plan and a prospectus for the Plan in the form most recently registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ), (b) accepts the Option subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Grant Notice, this Option Agreement and the Plan and (c) agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Committee upon any questions arising under the Grant Notice, this Option Agreement or the Plan.
Notice of Grant of Stock Option
"Grant Notice"
"Option Agreement"
"Option"
"Plan"
"Plan Prospectus"
 
1.
.
D C
EFINITIONS
AND
ONSTRUCTION
 
1.1 Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Grant Notice or the Plan.
Definitions.
 
1.2 Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this Option Agreement. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Use of the term "or" is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
Construction.
 
2.
.
T C
AX
ONSEQUENCES
 
2.1 . This Option is intended to be a Nonstatutory Stock Option and shall not be treated as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
Tax Status of Option
 
3.
.
A
DMINISTRATION
 
All questions of interpretation concerning this Option Agreement shall be determined by the Committee. All determinations by the Committee shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Option. Any Officer shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the Officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, or election.
4.
.
E O
XERCISE
OF
THE
PTION
 
4.1 Except as otherwise provided herein, the Option shall be exercisable on and after the Date of Grant and prior to the termination of the Option (as provided in Section 6) in an amount not to exceed the number of Number of Option Shares less the number of shares previously acquired upon exercise of the Option. In no event shall the Option be exercisable for more shares than the Number of Option Shares, as adjusted pursuant to Section 9.
Right to Exercise.
 
4.2 Exercise of the Option shall be by means of electronic or written notice (the ) in a form authorized by the Company. An electronic Exercise Notice must be digitally signed or authenticated by the Participant in such manner as required by the notice and transmitted to the Company or an authorized representative of the Company (including a third-party administrator designated by the Company). In the event that the Participant is not authorized or is unable to provide an electronic Exercise Notice, the Option shall be exercised by a written Exercise Notice addressed to the Company, which shall be signed by the Participant and delivered in person, by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, by confirmed facsimile transmission, or by such other means as the Company may permit, to the Company, or an authorized representative of the Company (including a third-party administrator designated by the Company). Each Exercise Notice, whether electronic or written, must state the Participant's election to exercise the Option, the number of whole shares of Stock for which the Option is being exercised and such other representations and agreements as to the Participant's investment intent with respect to such shares as may be required pursuant to the provisions of this Option Agreement. Further, each Exercise Notice must be received by the Company prior to the termination of the Option as set forth in Section 6 and must be accompanied by full payment of the aggregate Exercise Price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased. The Option shall be deemed to be exercised upon receipt by the Company of such electronic or written Exercise Notice and the aggregate Exercise Price.
Method of Exercise.
"Exercise Notice"
 
4.3
Payment of Exercise Price.
 
(a) Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the aggregate Exercise Price for the number of shares of Stock for which the Option is being exercised shall be made (i) in cash or by check or cash equivalent, (ii) if permitted by the Company, by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of whole shares of Stock owned by the Participant having a Fair Market Value not less than the aggregate Exercise Price, (iii) by means of a Cashless Exercise, as defined in Section 4.3(b), or (iv) by any combination of the foregoing.
Forms of Consideration Authorized.
 
(b)
Limitations on Forms of Consideration.
 
(i) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock to the extent such tender or attestation would constitute a violation of the provisions of any law, regulation or agreement restricting the redemption of the Company's stock. If required by the Company, the Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the
Tender of Stock.
 
ownership, of shares of Stock unless such shares either have been owned by the Participant for more than six (6) months or such other period, if any, required by the Company (and not used for another option exercise by attestation during such period) or were not acquired, directly or indirectly, from the Company.
 
(ii) A means the delivery of a properly executed notice together with irrevocable instructions to a broker in a form acceptable to the Company providing for the assignment to the Company of the proceeds of a sale or loan with respect to some or all of the shares of Stock acquired upon the exercise of the Option pursuant to a program or procedure approved by the Company (including, without limitation, through an exercise complying with the provisions of Regulation T as promulgated from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System). The Company reserves, at any and all times, the right, in the Company's sole and absolute discretion, to establish, decline to approve or terminate any such program or procedure, including with respect to the Participant notwithstanding that such program or procedures may be available to others.
Cashless Exercise.
"Cashless Exercise"
 
4.4 At the time the Option is exercised, in whole or in part, or at any time thereafter as requested by the Company, the Participant hereby authorizes withholding from payroll and any other amounts payable to the Participant, and otherwise agrees to make adequate provision for (including by means of a Cashless Exercise to the extent permitted by the Company), any sums required to satisfy the federal, state, local and foreign tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group, if any, which arise in connection with the Option. The Company shall have no obligation to deliver shares of Stock until the tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group have been satisfied by the Participant.
Tax Withholding.
 
4.5 The Participant hereby authorizes the Company, in its sole discretion, to deposit the shares as to which the Option is exercised with the Company's transfer agent, including any successor transfer agent, to be held in book entry form during the term of the Escrow pursuant to Section 12. Additionally, the Participant hereby authorizes the Company, in its sole discretion, to deposit for the benefit of the Participant with any broker with which the Participant has an account relationship of which the Company has notice any or all Vested Shares acquired by the Participant pursuant to the exercise of the Option. Except as provided by the preceding sentence, a certificate for the shares as to which the Option is exercised shall be registered in the name of the Participant, or, if applicable, in the names of the heirs of the Participant.
Beneficial Ownership of Shares; Certificate Registration.
 
4.6 The grant of the Option and the issuance of shares of Stock upon exercise of the Option shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state or foreign law with respect to such securities. The Option may not be exercised if the issuance of shares of Stock upon exercise would constitute a violation of any applicable federal, state or foreign securities laws or other law or regulations or the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed. In addition, the Option may not be exercised unless (i) a registration statement under the Securities Act shall at the time of exercise of the Option be in effect with respect to the shares issuable upon exercise of the Option or (ii) in the opinion of legal counsel to
Restrictions on Grant of the Option and Issuance of Shares.
 
the Company, the shares issuable upon exercise of the Option may be issued in accordance with the terms of an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. THE PARTICIPANT IS CAUTIONED THAT THE OPTION MAY NOT BE EXERCISED UNLESS THE FOREGOING CONDITIONS ARE SATISFIED. ACCORDINGLY, THE PARTICIPANT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EXERCISE THE OPTION WHEN DESIRED EVEN THOUGH THE OPTION IS VESTED. The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares subject to the Option shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. As a condition to the exercise of the Option, the Company may require the Participant to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
 
4.7 The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares upon the exercise of the Option.
Fractional Shares.
 
5.
.
N O
ONTRANSFERABILITY
OF
THE
PTION
 
During the lifetime of the Participant, the Option shall be exercisable only by the Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative. The Option shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Following the death of the Participant, the Option, to the extent provided in Section 7, may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative or by any person empowered to do so under the deceased Participant's will or under the then applicable laws of descent and distribution.
 
6.
.
T O
ERMINATION
OF
THE
PTION
 
The Option shall terminate and may no longer be exercised after the first to occur of (a) the close of business on the Option Expiration Date, (b) the close of business on the last date for exercising the Option following termination of the Participant's Service as described in Section 7, or (c) a Change in Control to the extent provided in Section 8.
 
7.
.
E T S
FFECT
OF
ERMINATION
OF
ERVICE
 
7.1 The Option shall terminate immediately upon the Participant's termination of Service to the extent that it is then unvested and shall be exercisable after the Participant's termination of Service to the extent it is then vested only during the applicable time period as determined below and thereafter shall terminate.
Option Exercisability.
 
(a) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the Disability of the Participant, any unexercisable or unvested portion of the Option shall be immediately exercisable and vested in full on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated and may be exercised by the Participant (or the Participant's guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Disability.
 
(b) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the death of the Participant, any unexercisable or unvested portion of the Option shall be immediately exercisable and vested in full on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated and may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by reason of the Participant's death at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. The Participant's Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Participant dies within three (3) months after the Participant's termination of Service.
Death.
 
(c) If the Participant's Service terminates for any reason, except Disability or Death, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable for Vested Shares by the Participant on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant at any time prior to the expiration of months (12) months after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Other Termination of Service.
 
7.2 Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the exercise of the Option within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 7.1 is prevented by the provisions of Section 4.6, the Option shall remain exercisable until three (3) months after the date the Participant is notified by the Company that the Option is exercisable, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law.
 
7.3 Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a sale within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 7.1 of shares acquired upon the exercise of the Option would subject the Participant to suit under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Option shall remain exercisable until the earliest to occur of (i) the tenth (10th) day following the date on which a sale of such shares by the Participant would no longer be subject to such suit, (ii) the one hundred and ninetieth (190th) day after the Participant's termination of Service, or (iii) the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Participant Subject to Section 16(b).
 
8.
.
E C C
FFECT
OF
HANGE
IN
ONTROL
 
In the event of a Change in Control, any unvested portion of the Option and any shares acquired pursuant thereto shall be immediately vested in full as of the date of the Change in Control. Any vesting of the Option that was permissible solely by reason of this Section shall be conditioned upon the consummation of the Change in Control.
 
9.
.
A C C S
DJUSTMENTS
FOR
HANGES
IN
APITAL
TRUCTURE
 
Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, in the event of any change in the Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation, recapitalization, reclassification,
 
stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of payment of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company in a form other than Stock (excepting normal cash dividends) that has a material effect on the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the number, Exercise Price and kind of shares subject to the Option, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the Participant's rights under the Option. For purposes of the foregoing, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as "effected without receipt of consideration by the Company." Any fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number, and in no event may the Exercise Price be decreased to an amount less than the par value, if any, of the stock subject to the Option. The Committee in its sole discretion, may also make such adjustments in the terms of the Option to reflect, or related to, such changes in the capital structure of the Company or distributions as it deems appropriate. The adjustments determined by the Committee pursuant to this Section shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
10.
.
R S, D, E C
IGHTS
AS
A
TOCKHOLDER
IRECTOR
MPLOYEE
OR
ONSULTANT
 
The Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by the Option until the date of the issuance of the shares for which the Option has been exercised (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date the shares are issued, except as provided in Section 9. If the Participant is an Employee, the Participant understands and acknowledges that, except as otherwise provided in a separate, written employment agreement between a Participating Company and the Participant, the Participant's employment is "at will" and is for no specified term. Nothing in this Option Agreement shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the Service of a Participating Company or interfere in any way with any right of the Participating Company Group to terminate the Participant's Service as a Director, an Employee or Consultant, as the case may be, at any time.
 
11.
.
L
EGENDS
 
The Company may at any time place legends referencing any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law restrictions on all certificates representing shares of stock subject to the provisions of this Option Agreement. The Participant shall, at the request of the Company, promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares acquired pursuant to the Option in the possession of the Participant in order to carry out the provisions of this Section. Unless otherwise specified by the Company, legends placed on such certificates may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
 
"THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE ARE SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CORPORATION AND THE REGISTERED HOLDER, OR HIS PREDECESSOR IN INTEREST, A COPY OF WHICH IS ON FILE AT THE PRINCIPAL OFFICE OF THIS CORPORATION."
 
12.
.
T V A
RANSFERS
IN
IOLATION
OF
GREEMENT
 
No Shares may be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of, including by operation of law, in any manner which violates any of the provisions of this Agreement. The Company shall not be required (a) to transfer on its books any Shares which will have been transferred in violation of any of the provisions set forth in this Agreement or (b) to treat as owner of such Shares or to accord the right to vote as such owner or to pay dividends to any transferee to whom such Shares will have been so transferred. In order to enforce its rights under this Section, the Company shall be authorized to give a stop transfer instruction with respect to the Shares to the Company's transfer agent.
 
13.
.
M P
ISCELLANEOUS
ROVISIONS
 
13.1 The Committee may terminate or amend the Plan or the Option at any time; provided, however, that except as provided in Section 8 in connection with a Change in Control, no such termination or amendment may adversely affect the Option or any unexercised portion hereof without the consent of the Participant unless such termination or amendment is necessary to comply with any applicable law or government regulation. No amendment or addition to this Option Agreement shall be effective unless in writing.
Termination or Amendment.
 
13.2 The parties hereto agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may reasonably be necessary to carry out the intent of this Option Agreement.
Further Instruments.
 
13.3 Subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth herein, this Option Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
Binding Effect.
 
13.4 Any document relating to participation in the Plan or any notice required or permitted hereunder shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given (except to the extent that this Option Agreement provides for effectiveness only upon actual receipt of such notice) upon personal delivery, electronic delivery at the e-mail address, if any, provided for the Participant by a Participating Company, or upon deposit in the U.S. Post Office or foreign postal service, by registered or certified mail, or with a nationally recognized overnight courier service, with postage and fees prepaid, addressed to the other party at the address shown below that party's signature to the Grant Notice or at such other address as such party may designate in writing from time to time to the other party.
Delivery of Documents and Notices.
 
(a) The Plan documents, which may include but do not necessarily include: the Plan, the Grant Notice, this Option Agreement, the Plan Prospectus, and any reports of the Company provided generally to the Company's stockholders, may be delivered to the Participant electronically. In addition, any notices called for in connection with the Escrow may be delivered electronically and the Participant may deliver electronically the Grant Notice and the Exercise Notice called for by Section 4.2 to the Company or to such third party involved in administering the Plan as the Company may
Description of Electronic Delivery
.
 
designate from time to time. Such means of electronic delivery may include but do not necessarily include the delivery of a link to a Company intranet or the internet site of a third party involved in administering the Plan, the delivery of the document via e-mail or such other means of electronic delivery specified by the Company.
 
(b) The Participant acknowledges that the Participant has read Section 15.4(a) of this Option Agreement and consents to the electronic delivery of the Plan documents and the delivery of the notices in connection with the Escrow, the Grant Notice and the Exercise Notice, as described in Section 15.4(a). The Participant acknowledges that he or she may receive from the Company a paper copy of any documents delivered electronically at no cost to the Participant by contacting the Company by telephone or in writing. The Participant further acknowledges that the Participant will be provided with a paper copy of any documents if the attempted electronic delivery of such documents fails. Similarly, the Participant understands that the Participant must provide the Company or any designated third party administrator with a paper copy of any documents if the attempted electronic delivery of such documents fails. The Participant may revoke his or her consent to the electronic delivery of documents described in Section 15.4(a) or may change the electronic mail address to which such documents are to be delivered (if Participant has provided an electronic mail address) at any time by notifying the Company of such revoked consent or revised e-mail address by telephone, postal service or electronic mail. Finally, the Participant understands that he or she is not required to consent to electronic delivery of documents described in Section 15.4(a).
Consent to Electronic Delivery.
 
13.5 The Grant Notice, this Option Agreement and the Plan, together with any employment, service or other agreement between the Participant and a Participating Company referring to the Option, shall constitute the entire understanding and agreement of the Participant and the Participating Company Group with respect to the subject matter contained herein and supersede any prior agreements, understandings, restrictions, representations, or warranties among the Participant and the Participating Company Group with respect to such subject matter. To the extent contemplated herein, the provisions of the Grant Notice, the Option Agreement and the Plan shall survive any exercise of the Option and shall remain in full force and effect.
Integrated Agreement.
 
13.6 This Option Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California as such laws are applied to agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed entirely within the State of California.
Applicable Law.
 
13.7 The Grant Notice may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
 
 
 
E*Trade Financial Corporation
Attention: Human Resources
Operations and Systems
10951 White Rock Road
Rancho Cordova, CA 95670
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
1. I was granted an option (the ) to purchase shares of the common stock (the ) of E*Trade Financial Corporation (the ) pursuant to the Company's 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the ), my Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the ) and my Stock Option Agreement (the ) as follows:
.
Option
"
Option
"
"
Shares
"
"
Company
"
"
Plan
"
"
Grant Notice
"
"
Option Agreement
"
 
 
2. I hereby elect to exercise the Option to purchase the following number of Shares, all of which are Vested Shares in accordance with the Grant Notice and the Option Agreement:
.
Exercise of Option
 
 
3. I enclose payment in full of the total exercise price for the Shares in the following form(s), as authorized by my Option Agreement:
.
Payments
 
4. I authorize payroll withholding and otherwise will make adequate provision for the federal, state, local and foreign tax withholding obligations of the Company, if any, in connection with the Option. If I am subject to tax withholding, I enclose payment in full of my withholding taxes, if any, as follows:
.
Tax Withholding
 
 
 
5.
.
Participant Information
 
 
My Social Security Number is:    ________________________________
 
6. I agree that the Shares are being acquired in accordance with and subject to the terms, provisions and conditions of the Grant Notice, the Option Agreement and the Plan, to all of which I hereby expressly assent. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon my heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
.
Binding Effect
 
 
Receipt of the above is hereby acknowledged.
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
 
 
 
E*Trade Financial Corporation has granted to the Participant named in the (the ) to which this Restricted Stock Agreement (the ) is attached an Award consisting of Shares subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Notice and this Agreement. The Award has been granted pursuant to the E*Trade Financial Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the ), as amended to the Date of Grant, the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference. By signing the Grant Notice, the Participant: (a) acknowledges receipt of and represents that the Participant has read and is familiar with the Grant Notice, this Agreement, the Plan and a prospectus for the Plan in the form most recently registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ), (b) accepts the Award subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Grant Notice, this Agreement and the Plan and (c) agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Committee upon any questions arising under the Grant Notice, this Agreement or the Plan.
Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock
"Grant Notice"
"Agreement"
"Plan"
"Plan Prospectus"
 
1.
.
D C
EFINITIONS
AND
ONSTRUCTION
 
1.1 Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Grant Notice or the Plan.
Definitions
.
 
1.2 Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this Agreement. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Use of the term "or" is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
Construction.
 
2.
.
A
DMINISTRATION
 
All questions of interpretation concerning the Grant Notice and this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee. All determinations by the Committee shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Award. Any Officer of a Participating Company shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the Officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, or election.
 
3.
.
T A
HE
WARD
 
3.1 On the Date of Grant, the Participant shall acquire and the Company shall issue, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, a number of Shares equal to the Total Number of Shares set forth in the Grant Notice. As a condition to the issuance of the Shares, the Participant shall execute and deliver to the Company along with the Grant Notice (a) the Joint Escrow Instructions in the form attached to the Grant Notice and (b) the Assignment Separate from Certificate duly endorsed (with date and number of shares blank) in the form attached to the Grant Notice.
Grant and Issuance of Shares.
3.2 The Participant is not required to make any monetary payment (other than applicable tax withholding, if any) as a condition to receiving the Shares, the consideration for which shall be past services actually rendered and/or future services to be rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if required by applicable state corporate law, the Participant shall furnish consideration in the form of cash or past services rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit having a value not less than the par value of the shares of Stock issued upon settlement of the Award.
No Monetary Payment Required.
 
3.3 The Participant hereby authorizes the Company, in its sole discretion, to deposit the Shares with the Company's transfer agent, including any successor transfer agent, to be held in book entry form during the term of the Escrow pursuant to Section 6. Except as provided by the preceding sentence, a certificate for the Shares shall be registered in the name of the Participant, or, if applicable, in the names of the heirs of the Participant.
Beneficial Ownership of Shares; Certificate Registration
.
 
3.4 The issuance of the Shares shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state or foreign law with respect to such securities. No Shares shall be issued hereunder if their issuance would constitute a violation of any applicable federal, state or foreign securities laws or other law or regulations or the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed. The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance of any Shares shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. As a condition to the issuance of the Shares, the Company may require the Participant to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
Issuance of Shares in Compliance with Law.
 
4.
.
V S
ESTING
OF
HARES
 
4.1 Except as provided in Sections 4.2 and 4.3, or unless otherwise superseded by the terms of an employment agreement, the Shares shall vest and become Vested Shares as provided in the Grant Notice; provided however, that Shares that would otherwise become Vested Shares on a date on which a sale of such Shares by the Participant would violate the Insider Trading Policy of the Company shall, not withstanding the vesting schedule set forth in the Grant Notice, become Vested Shares on the next day on which such sale would not violate the Insider Trading Policy. For purposes of this Section, means the written policy of the Company pertaining to the sale, transfer or other disposition of the Company's equity securities by members of the Board, Officers or other employees who may possess material, non-public information regarding the Company, as in effect at the time of a disposition of any Shares. No additional Shares will become Vested Shares following the Participant's termination of Service for any reason.
Normal Vesting.
"Insider Trading Policy"
 
4.2 . If the Participant's Service ceases as a result of an Involuntary
Acceleration of Vesting Upon Involuntary Termination Following a Change in Control
 
Termination After Change in Control (as defined below), the Shares shall vest in full and become Vested Shares as provided in the Grant Notice on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated. Unless otherwise defined in a contract of employment or service between the Participant and a Participating Company, for purposes of this Option Agreement shall mean either of the following events occurring within eighteen (18) months after a Change in Control (which term is defined in the Plan Document): (i) termination by the Participating Company Group of Participant's Service with the Participating Company Group for any reason other than for Cause or (ii) Participant's voluntary resignation following (A) a reduction in Participant's level of compensation (including base salary, fringe benefits and target bonus under any corporate performance based bonus or incentive programs) by more than fifteen percent (15%) or (B) a relocation of Participant's place of employment by more than fifty (50) miles, provided and only if such reduction or relocation is effected without the Participant's express written consent. In the event such term, or the substantive equivalent, is defined in a contract of employment or service, such definition will take precedence over this definition.
"
Involuntary Termination After Change in Control
"
 
4.3 If the Participant's Service ceases as a result of Participant's death, the Shares shall vest in full and become Vested Shares as provided in the Grant Notics on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated. The Participant's Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Participant dies within three (3) months after the Participant's termination of Service.
Acceleration of Vesting Upon Participant's Death.
 
4.4
Federal Excise Tax Under Section 4999 of the Code.
 
(a) In the event that any acceleration of vesting pursuant to this Agreement and any other payment or benefit received or to be received by the Participant would subject the Participant to any excise tax pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code due to the characterization of such acceleration of vesting, payment or benefit as an excess parachute payment under Section 280G of the Code, the Participant may elect, in his or her sole discretion, to reduce the amount of any acceleration of vesting called for under this Agreement in order to avoid such characterization. This provision shall not alter any term in any employment agreement relating to this topic.
Excess Parachute Payment.
 
(b) To aid the Participant in making any election called for under Section 4.4(a), upon the occurrence of any event that might reasonably be anticipated to give rise to the acceleration of vesting under Section 4.2 (an ), the Company shall promptly request a determination in writing by independent public accountants selected by the Company (the ). Unless the Company and the Participant otherwise agree in writing, the Accountants shall determine and report to the Company and the Participant within twenty (20) days of the date of the Event the amount of such acceleration of vesting, payments and benefits which would produce the greatest after-tax benefit to the Participant. For the purposes of such determination, the Accountants may rely on reasonable, good faith interpretations concerning the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code. The Company and the Participant shall furnish to the Accountants such information and documents as the Accountants may reasonably request in order to make their required determination. The Company shall bear all fees and expenses the Accountants may reasonably charge in connection with their services contemplated by this Section.
Determination by Independent Accountants.
"Event"
"Accountants"
 
5.
.
C R R
OMPANY
EACQUISITION
IGHT
 
5.1 Except to the extent otherwise provided in an employment agreement between a Participating Company and the Participant, in the event that (a) the Participant's Service terminates for any reason or no reason, with or without Cause, or (b) the Participant, the Participant's legal representative, or other holder of the Shares, attempts to sell, exchange, transfer, pledge, or otherwise dispose of (other than pursuant to an Ownership Change Event), including, without limitation, any transfer to a nominee or agent of the Participant, any Shares which are not Vested Shares (), the Company shall automatically reacquire the Unvested Shares, and the Participant shall not be entitled to any payment therefor (the ).
Grant of Company Reacquisition Right.
"Unvested Shares"
"Company Reacquisition Right"
 
5.2 Upon the occurrence of an Ownership Change Event, any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property to which the Participant is entitled by reason of the Participant's ownership of Unvested Shares shall be immediately subject to the Company Reacquisition Right and included in the terms "Shares," "Stock" and "Unvested Shares" for all purposes of the Company Reacquisition Right with the same force and effect as the Unvested Shares immediately prior to the Ownership Change Event. For purposes of determining the number of Vested Shares following an Ownership Change Event, credited Service shall include all Service with any corporation which is a Participating Company at the time the Service is rendered, whether or not such corporation is a Participating Company both before and after the Ownership Change Event.
Ownership Change Event.
 
6.
.
E
SCROW
 
6.1 To ensure that Shares subject to the Company Reacquisition Right will be available for reacquisition, the Participant agrees to deliver to and deposit with an escrow agent designated by the Company the certificate evidencing the Shares, together with an Assignment Separate from Certificate with respect to such certificate duly endorsed (with date and number of shares blank) in the form attached to the Grant Notice, to be held by the agent under the terms and conditions of the Joint Escrow Instructions in the form attached to the Grant Notice (the ). Upon the occurrence of an Ownership Change Event or a change, as described in Section 8, in the character or amount of any outstanding stock of the corporation the stock of which is subject to the provisions of this Agreement, any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property to which the Participant is entitled by reason of his or her ownership of the Shares that remain, following such Ownership Change Event or change described in Section 8, subject to the Company Reacquisition Right and shall be immediately subject to the Escrow to the same extent as the Shares immediately before such event. The Company shall bear the expenses of the escrow.
Establishment of Escrow.
"Escrow"
 
6.2 Whenever the Participant or the Participant's legal representative proposes to sell, exchange, transfer, pledge or otherwise dispose of (other than pursuant to an Ownership Change Event) any shares of Stock subject to the Escrow, the Participant shall so notify the Company. As soon as practicable thereafter, the Company shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether (a) such proposed disposition would not cause the Company to automatically reacquire such Shares pursuant to the Company Reacquisition Right and (b) the Participant has made adequate provision for the tax withholding obligations, if
Delivery of Shares to Participant.
 
any, pursuant to Section 7. If both conditions (a) and (b) set forth in the preceding sentence are satisfied, the Company shall, as soon as practicable, so notify the Participant and give to the escrow agent a written notice directing the escrow agent to deliver such Shares to the Participant. As soon as practicable after receipt of such notice, the escrow agent shall deliver to the Participant the Shares specified in such notice, and the Escrow shall terminate with respect to such Shares.
 
7.
.
T M
AX
ATTERS
 
7.1
Tax Withholding.
 
(a) At the time the Grant Notice is executed, or at any time thereafter as requested by a Participating Company, the Participant hereby authorizes withholding from payroll and any other amounts payable to the Participant, and otherwise agrees to make adequate provision for, any sums required to satisfy the federal, state, local and foreign tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company, if any, which arise in connection with the Award, including, without limitation, obligations arising upon (a) the transfer of Shares to the Participant, (b) the lapsing of any restriction with respect to any Shares, (c) the filing of an election to recognize tax liability, or (d) the transfer by the Participant of any Shares. The Company shall have no obligation to deliver the Shares or to release any Shares from the Escrow established pursuant to Section 6 until the tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company have been satisfied by the Participant.
In General.
 
(b) Subject to approval by the Company, in its discretion, the Participant may satisfy all or any portion of a Participating Company's tax withholding obligations by requesting the Company to withhold a number of whole, Vested Shares otherwise deliverable to the Participant or by tendering to the Company a number of whole, Vested Shares or vested shares acquired otherwise than pursuant to the Award having, in any such case, a fair market value, as determined by the Company as of the date on which the tax withholding obligations arise, not in excess of the amount of such tax withholding obligations determined by the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates. Any adverse consequences to the Participant resulting from the procedure permitted under this Section, including, without limitation, tax consequences, shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant.
Withholding in Shares.
 
7.2
Election Under Section 83(b) of the Code.
 
(a) The Participant understands that Section 83 of the Code taxes as ordinary income the difference between the amount paid for the Shares, if anything, and the fair market value of the Shares as of the date on which the Shares are "substantially vested," within the meaning of Section 83. In this context, "substantially vested" means that the right of the Company to reacquire the Shares pursuant to the Company Reacquisition Right has lapsed. The Participant understands that he or she may elect to have his or her taxable income determined at the time he or she acquires the Shares rather than when and as the Company Reacquisition Right lapses by filing an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with the Internal Revenue Service no later than thirty (30) days after the date of acquisition of the Shares. The Participant understands that failure to make a timely filing under Section 83(b) will result in his or her recognition of ordinary income, as the Company Reacquisition Right lapses, on the difference between the purchase price, if anything, and the fair market value of the Shares at the time such restrictions
 
lapse. The Participant further understands, however, that if Shares with respect to which an election under Section 83(b) has been made are forfeited to the Company pursuant to its Company Reacquisition Right, such forfeiture will be treated as a sale on which there is realized a loss equal to the excess (if any) of the amount paid (if any) by the Participant for the forfeited Shares over the amount realized (if any) upon their forfeiture. If the Participant has paid nothing for the forfeited Shares and has received no payment upon their forfeiture, the Participant understands that he or she will be unable to recognize any loss on the forfeiture of the Shares even though the Participant incurred a tax liability by making an election under Section 83(b).
 
(b) The Participant understands that he or she should consult with his or her tax advisor regarding the advisability of filing with the Internal Revenue Service an election under Section 83(b) of the Code, which must be filed no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the acquisition of the Shares pursuant to this Agreement. Failure to file an election under Section 83(b), if appropriate, may result in adverse tax consequences to the Participant. The Participant acknowledges that he or she has been advised to consult with a tax advisor regarding the tax consequences to the Participant of the acquisition of Shares hereunder. ANY ELECTION UNDER SECTION 83(b) THE PARTICIPANT WISHES TO MAKE MUST BE FILED NO LATER THAN 30 DAYS AFTER THE DATE ON WHICH THE PARTICIPANT ACQUIRES THE SHARES. THIS TIME PERIOD CANNOT BE EXTENDED. THE PARTICIPANT ACKNOWLEDGES THAT TIMELY FILING OF A SECTION 83(b) ELECTION IS THE PARTICIPANT'S SOLE RESPONSIBILITY, EVEN IF THE PARTICIPANT REQUESTS THE COMPANY OR ITS REPRESENTATIVE TO FILE SUCH ELECTION ON HIS OR HER BEHALF.
 
(c) The Participant will notify the Company in writing if the Participant files an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Code. The Company intends, in the event it does not receive from the Participant evidence of such filing, to claim a tax deduction for any amount which would otherwise be taxable to the Participant in the absence of such an election.
 
8.
.
A C C S
DJUSTMENTS
FOR
HANGES
IN
APITAL
TRUCTURE
 
Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, in the event of any change in the Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of payment of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company in a form other than Stock (excepting normal cash dividends) that has a material effect on the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the number and kind of shares subject to the Award, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the Participant's rights under the Award. For purposes of the foregoing, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as "effected without receipt of consideration by the Company." Any fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number. Such adjustments shall be determined by the Committee, and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
9.
.
R S, D, E C
IGHTS
AS
A
TOCKHOLDER
IRECTOR
MPLOYEE
OR
ONSULTANT
 
The Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any Shares subject to the Award until the date of the issuance of a certificate for such Shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 8. Subject the provisions of this Agreement, the Participant shall exercise all rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company with respect to Shares deposited in the Escrow pursuant to Section 6. If the Participant is an Employee, the Participant understands and acknowledges that, except as otherwise provided in a separate, written employment agreement between a Participating Company and the Participant, the Participant's employment is "at will" and is for no specified term. Nothing in this Agreement shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the Service of a Participating Company or interfere in any way with any right of the Participating Company Group to terminate the Participant's Service at any time.
 
10.
.
L
EGENDS
 
The Company may at any time place legends referencing the Company Reacquisition Right and any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law restrictions on all certificates representing the Shares. The Participant shall, at the request of the Company, promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing the Shares in the possession of the Participant in order to carry out the provisions of this Section. Unless otherwise specified by the Company, legends placed on such certificates may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
 
"THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE ARE SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THIS CORPORATION AND THE REGISTERED HOLDER, OR HIS PREDECESSOR IN INTEREST, A COPY OF WHICH IS ON FILE AT THE PRINCIPAL OFFICE OF THIS CORPORATION."
 
11.
.
T V A
RANSFERS
IN
IOLATION
OF
GREEMENT
 
No Shares may be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of, including by operation of law, in any manner which violates any of the provisions of this Agreement and, except pursuant to an Ownership Change Event, until the date on which such shares become Vested Shares, and any such attempted disposition shall be void. The Company shall not be required (a) to transfer on its books any Shares which will have been transferred in violation of any of the provisions set forth in this Agreement or (b) to treat as owner of such Shares or to accord the right to vote as such owner or to pay dividends to any transferee to whom such Shares will have been so transferred. In order to enforce its rights under this Section, the Company shall be authorized to give a stop transfer instruction with respect to the Shares to the Company's transfer agent.
 
12.
.
M P
ISCELLANEOUS
ROVISIONS
 
12.1 The Committee may terminate or amend the Plan or this Agreement at any time; provided, however, that no such termination or amendment may adversely affect the Participant's rights under this Agreement without the consent of the Participant unless such termination or amendment is necessary to comply with applicable law or government regulation. No amendment or addition to this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing.
Termination or Amendment.
 
12.2 The right to acquire Shares pursuant to the Award shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to the Award shall be exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by the Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability of the Award.
 
12.3 The parties hereto agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may reasonably be necessary to carry out the intent of this Agreement.
Further Instruments.
 
12.4 This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company and, subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth herein, be binding upon the Participant and the Participant's heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
Binding Effect.
 
12.5 Any document relating to participation in the Plan or any notice required or permitted hereunder shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given (except to the extent that this Agreement provides for effectiveness only upon actual receipt of such notice) upon personal delivery, electronic delivery at the e-mail address, if any, provided for the Participant by a Participating Company, or upon deposit in the U.S. Post Office or foreign postal service, by registered or certified mail, or with a nationally recognized overnight courier service, with postage and fees prepaid, addressed to the other party at the address shown below that party's signature to the Grant Notice or at such other address as such party may designate in writing from time to time to the other party.
Delivery of Documents and Notices.
 
(a) The Plan documents, which may include but do not necessarily include: the Plan, the Grant Notice, this Agreement, the Plan Prospectus, and any reports of the Company provided generally to the Company's stockholders, may be delivered to the Participant electronically. In addition, the parties may deliver electronically any notices called for in connection with the Escrow and the Participant may deliver electronically the Grant Notice to the Company or to such third party involved in administering the Plan as the Company may designate from time to time. Such means of electronic delivery may include but do not necessarily include the delivery of a link to a Company intranet or the internet site of a third party involved in administering the Plan, the delivery of the document via e-mail or such other means of electronic delivery specified by the Company.
Description of Electronic Delivery
.
 
(b) The Participant acknowledges that the Participant has read Section 12.5(a) of this Agreement and consents to the electronic delivery of the Plan documents, the Grant Notice and notices in connection with the Escrow, as described in Section 12.5(a). The Participant acknowledges that he or she may receive from the Company a paper copy of any documents delivered electronically at no cost to the Participant by contacting the Company by telephone or in writing. The Participant further acknowledges that the Participant will be provided with a paper copy of any documents if the attempted electronic delivery of such documents fails. Similarly, the Participant understands that the Participant must provide the Company or any designated third party administrator with a paper copy of any documents if the attempted electronic delivery of such documents fails. The Participant may revoke his or her consent to the electronic delivery of documents described in Section 12.5(a) or may change the electronic mail address to which such documents are to be delivered (if Participant has provided an electronic mail address) at any time by notifying the Company of such revoked consent or revised e-mail address by telephone, postal service or electronic mail. Finally, the Participant understands that he or she is not required to consent to electronic delivery of documents described in Section 12.5(a).
Consent to Electronic Delivery.
 
12.6 The Grant Notice, this Agreement and the Plan together with any employment, service or other agreement between the Participant and a Participating Company referring to the Award shall constitute the entire understanding and agreement of the Participant and the Participating Company Group with respect to the subject matter contained herein or therein and supersedes any prior agreements, understandings, restrictions, representations, or warranties among the Participant and the Participating Company Group with respect to such subject matter other than those as set forth or provided for herein or therein. To the extent contemplated herein or therein, the provisions of the Grant Notice and the Agreement shall survive any settlement of the Award and shall remain in full force and effect.
Integrated Agreement.
 
12.7 This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California as such laws are applied to agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed entirely within the State of California.
Applicable Law.
 
12.8 The Grant Notice may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
 

Exhibit 10.67
 
 
 
 
I. PURPOSES
 
The purposes of this Executive Bonus Plan (the "Plan") are: (a) to provide greater incentive for senior executives (defined for the purposes of this Plan to refer to those individuals designated as "Section 16 Officers" and executives referred to internally as members of the "Officer Team" or the equivalent) to exert their best efforts on behalf of E*TRADE Financial Corporation (the "Company") by rewarding them for services rendered with compensation that is in addition to their regular salaries; (b) to attract and retain persons of outstanding competence; and (c) to further the alignment of interests of employees with those of shareholders through a strong performance-based reward system.
 
II. FORM OF AWARDS
 
Incentive compensation awards under this Plan payable to the Company's senior executives shall be generally granted in cash, less any applicable withholding taxes; provided that the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") may determine that all or a portion of any award may be paid in equity based incentive, including without limitation stock options, restricted shares, or outright grants of Company stock.
 
III. DETERMINATION OF AWARDS
 
Incentive awards for participants, including the Chief Executive Officer, shall be determined annually according to Performance Metrics established in the first 90 days of each year by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"). To ensure thorough and independent oversight, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, Performance Metrics must be reviewed and ratified by the independent members of the full Board. Performance Metrics shall include some or all of the following: target company revenue, earnings per share, operating income, gross margin, operating margin, pre-tax profit, net operating income, net income, cash generation, cash management, return on capital, return on assets, return on investment, risk management, market share (including, inter alia, daily average revenue trades, asset gathering), product development and distribution, human resources (e.g., employee retention or satisfaction), customer service/satisfaction results, satisfactory completion of identified special projects and overall effectiveness of management. Alternatively, the Board may set the Performance Metrics to be a percentage of the Company's net income. Performance Metrics shall be established as absolute values, relative performance against an identified comparator group or a combination of both, and may be based on performance of the Company, a subsidiary, or a division, business unit or business
segment of the Company or a subsidiary. Incentive awards described in this subsection shall be calculated and paid on an annual basis, based on performance over the course of that year. Ordinarily, incentive awards will be paid within a range, beginning with a minimum level if actual performance against the Performance Metrics meets a minimum level up to a highest range if actual performance against the Performance Metrics meets or exceeds a pre-established level. In the event that the Company does not achieve at least the minimum threshold Performance Metric(s) goals, then employees will not be entitled to any payment under this plan for the portion of bonus attributable to the Performance Metric(s) not met. With respect to all individuals other than Section 162(m) "covered employees", the Committee or its designee reserves the right to modify any criteria, goals, or payment amounts as appropriate under the business conditions then existing.
 
Incentive awards under this Plan for senior executives, including the Chief Executive Officer, shall be determined annually, solely according to the achievement of previously established Performance Metrics, and may exclude restructurings, discontinued operations, extraordinary items, unusual or non-recurring charges, and the effects of tax or accounting changes. To ensure thorough and independent oversight, the independent members of the Board must review and ratify the Chief Executive Officer's award each year. Payouts for the Chief Executive Officer shall be made on an annual basis, based on the Company's results for the full year.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Plan, the Board and the Committee shall have the power, in its sole discretion, to reduce the amount payable to any Participant (or to determine that no amount shall be payable to such Participant) with respect to any award prior to the time the amount otherwise would have become payable hereunder. In the event of such a reduction, the amount of such reduction shall not increase the amounts payable to other participants under the Plan. The maximum award that may be payable to any one individual under this Plan, including the Chief Executive Officer, shall be 2.5 percent of net income, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and consistent with results reported in the Company's financial statements.
 
IV. ADMINISTRATION
 
Except as otherwise specifically provided, the Plan shall be administered by the Committee or, in the case of individuals other than the Chief Executive Officer and Section 162(m) "covered employees", the Committee's designee. The Committee members shall be appointed pursuant to the Bylaws. In the case of the Chief Executive Officer, all actions must be reviewed and ratified by the independent members of the full Board.
 
The decision of the Committee (or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, the Board) with respect to questions arising as to plan interpretation, including the severability of any and all provisions, shall be, in its sole and absolute discretion, final, conclusive and binding.
V. ELIGIBILITY FOR AWARDS
 
No award may be granted to a member of the Company's Board of Directors except for services performed as an employee.
 
Except in the event of retirement, death, or disability, to be eligible for an award an employee shall be employed by the Company as of the date final award amounts are calculated and approved by the Committee under this Plan.
 
For purposes of this Plan, the term "senior executive" shall include an employee of a corporation or other business entity in which this Company shall directly or indirectly own 50% or more of the outstanding voting stock or other ownership interest and who is designated by the Committee or the Board as a senior executive.
 
VI. AWARDS
 
The Committee (or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, the Board) shall determine each year the payments, if any, to be made under the Plan. Awards for any fiscal year shall be granted not later than the end of the first quarter of the fiscal year, and payments shall be made as soon as practicable after the close of the fiscal year.
 
VII. DEFERRAL OF AWARDS
 
A participant in this Plan who is also eligible to participate in a deferred compensation plan of the Company may elect to defer payments according to the terms of that plan.
 
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS AND GRANTING OF AWARDS
 
Any award shall be made in the sole discretion of the Committee, which shall take final action on any such award except that, with respect to the Chief Executive Officer, any action must be approved by the full Board. No person shall have a right to an award under this Plan until final action has been taken granting such award.
 
IX. AMENDMENTS AND EXPIRATION DATE
 
While it is the intention of the Company to grant awards annually, the Committee reserves the right to modify or amend this Plan or to direct the discontinuance of granting awards.
 
X. MISCELLANEOUS
 
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a guarantee of continued employment of any participant hereunder. This Plan shall be construed and governed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.


