FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20050126071223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02: RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
 
On January 26, 2005, the Company announced its fourth quarter earnings for fiscal year 2004. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information furnished shall not be deemed "filed " for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or incorporated by reference into any filing thereunder or under the Securities Act of 1933 unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(c)    Exhibits
 
99.1    Earnings Press Release, dated January 26, 2005
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Contact
Pam Erickson
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
617-296-6080
pam.erickson@etrade.com
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
Adam Townsend
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
703-236-8719
adam.townsend@etrade.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NYSE: ET) today announced results for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2004, reporting net income of $98.4 million, or $0.26 per diluted share, compared to net income of $107.5 million, or $0.27 per share, in the same quarter a year ago. The reported fourth quarter earnings per share include a $0.02 benefit from a lower corporate tax rate. Net revenue for the fourth quarter totaled $409.5 million, a 21 percent increase over the prior quarter and a 10 percent increase over the year ago period.
New York, January 26, 2005
 
For the year ending December 31, 2004, E*TRADE FINANCIAL reported earnings of $1.01 per share on net income of $389.1 million compared to $0.55 per share and net income of $203.0 million in 2003. Total assets/deposits in customer accounts reached a record level of $100.4 billion at year-end  an increase of 20 percent sequentially and 21 percent year over year.
 
"In 2004, we proved that you can increase profitability and earnings, while sharing the rewards of financial success with customers," said Mitchell H. Caplan, Chief Executive Officer, E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. "Our record-breaking year continues to validate the strength of our model and underscores our commitment to passing on unique advantages to customers. In 2005, we intend to deliver continued value to our customers and shareholders by enhancing our customer segmentation and increasing integration."
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2004
Page 2
 
Other selected highlights from the fourth quarter of 2004:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Historical monthly metric data from January 2003 to December 2004 can be found on the E*TRADE FINANCIAL investor relations site at .
www.etrade.com
 
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
 
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provide financial services including brokerage, banking and lending for retail, corporate and institutional customers. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member NASD/SIPC). Bank and lending products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
 
 
Important Notice
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL and the E*TRADE FINANCIAL logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE Group, Inc. or E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption "Risk Factors") and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 
 2005 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. All rights reserved.
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2004
Page 3
 
Financial Statements
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2004
Page 4
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2004
Page 5
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2004
Page 6
 
Segment Reporting
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2004
Page 7
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2004
Page 8
 
Key Performance Metrics
(4)
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2004
Page 9
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2004
Page 10
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2004
Page 11
 
Activity in Allowance for Loan Losses
 
 
Bank Average Balance Data
 
 
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2004
Page 12
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION AND ENDNOTES
 
Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures and Certain Metrics
 
In order to better assess the Company's financial operating results, management believes consolidated operating margins, free cash, EBITDA and interest coverage are appropriate measures of evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company. We believe that the elimination of certain items from these measures is helpful to analysts and investors who may wish to use some or all of this information to analyze our current performance, prospects and valuation. Our management uses non-GAAP information internally to evaluate our operating performance and in formulating our budget for future periods.
 
Consolidated Operating Margin
 
Consolidated operating margin is defined as income before other income, income taxes and discontinued operations divided by net revenues. Operating margin for Brokerage and Bank is based on segment results. Our consolidated statements of operations contain a reconciliation of income before other income, income taxes and discontinued operations to net income.
 
Free Cash, EBITDA and Interest Coverage
 
Free cash as reported by the Company represents cash held at Parent and non-Bank or Brokerage subsidiaries less discretionary reserves and excess capital at Bank and Brokerage after regulatory capital requirements and the Company's own regulatory capital guidelines. The Company believes that free cash is a useful measure of the Company's liquidity as it excludes cash reflected on the balance sheet that may not be freely available to the Company.
 
Additionally, management utilizes EBITDA and interest coverage to measure business performance. EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) from continuing operations before corporate interest expense, taxes and depreciation & amortization. Interest coverage is defined as EBITDA divided by corporate interest expense.
 
It is important to note these metrics and other non-GAAP measures may involve judgment by management and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net income, consolidated statements of cash flows, or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. For complete information on the items excluded from these non-GAAP measures, please see our financial statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" that will be included in the periodic report we expect to file with the SEC with respect to the financial periods discussed herein.
 
(1) Consolidated operating margin is defined as income before other income, income taxes and discontinued operations divided by net revenues. Operating margin for Brokerage and Bank is based on segment results.
 
(2) For the three months ended December 31, 2003 and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004, diluted earnings per share is calculated using the if converted' method, which includes the additional dilutive impact assuming conversion of the Company's subordinated convertible debt. Under the if converted' method the per share numerator excludes the interest expense and related amortization of offering costs from the convertible debt, net of tax, of $ 7.2 million for the three months ended December 31, 2003, and $19.9 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004. The denominator includes the shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the convertible debt of 45.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2003 and 25.8 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004. For all other periods presented the if converted' method is not used as its effect would be anti-dilutive.
 
(3) Eliminates intercompany payment made by Bank to Brokerage related to Sweep Deposit Account (SDA) relationships, swept daily from Brokerage to Bank, which began in the third quarter of 2003. Under this relationship, Bank pays Brokerage a negotiated rate that approximates market on the average SDA balance. Bank reflects this payment as advertising and market development expense and Brokerage reflects this payment as other revenues.
 
(4) Amounts and percentages may not calculate due to rounding.
 
(5) Q404 estimate.
 
(6) Amounts include a taxable equivalent increase in interest income of $2.4 million and $0.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.


