FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20060123161449.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02: RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
 
On January 23, 2006, the Company announced its fourth quarter earnings for fiscal year 2005. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information furnished shall not be deemed "filed " for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or incorporated by reference into any filing thereunder or under the Securities Act of 1933 unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(c)    Exhibits
 
99.1    Earnings Press Release, dated January 23, 2006
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Contact
Pam Erickson
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
617-296-6080
pam.erickson@etrade.com
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
Adam Townsend
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
703-236-8719
adam.townsend@etrade.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NYSE: ET) today announced results for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2005, reporting record net income of $129.4 million, or $0.32 per diluted share compared to $89.8 million, or $0.24 per diluted share a year ago  representing a 44 percent increase in net income over the year ago period. Total net revenue for the fourth quarter increased 19 percent to a record $478.9 million from $403.7 million a year ago, with net interest income increasing 43 percent year over year, representing over 50 percent of total net revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2005, E*TRADE FINANCIAL reported record net income of $430.4 million, or $1.12 per share, on record revenue of $1.7 billion. This compares to net income of $380.5 million, or $0.99 per share, on net revenue of $1.5 billion in 2004.
New York, January 23, 2006
 
The fourth-quarter GAAP EPS of $0.32 included $0.08 per share non-recurring gain related to the Company's previously announced sale of E*TRADE Consumer Finance. This gain was partially offset by a net $0.06 per share in incremental interest expense, share dilution, restructuring and other deal-related costs associated with the Company's earlier than expected closing of the Harris and BrownCo acquisitions. Excluding both the non-recurring gain from E*TRADE Consumer Finance and the impact from the closing of these acquisitions, the Company would have reported fourth-quarter earnings per share of $0.30, or $1.10 for the year ended December 31, 2005.
direct
 
"In 2005, we delivered our third consecutive year of exceptional growth, resulting in record revenue, net income and profit margins. We achieved these financial results while simultaneously strengthening the franchise through strategic acquisitions," said Mitchell H. Caplan, Chief Executive Officer, E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. "Our compelling customer value proposition resulted in significant organic growth in assets, cash, borrowings and
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2005
Page 2
 
transactions which translated into double digit growth in net income and net revenue year-over-year."
 
Other selected highlights from the fourth quarter of 2005:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Historical monthly metric data from January 2003 to December 2005 can be found on the E*TRADE FINANCIAL investor relations site at www.etrade.com.
 
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
 
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provides financial services including trading, investing, banking and lending for Retail and Institutional customers. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member NASD/SIPC). Bank and lending products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
 
 
Important Notice
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL and the E*TRADE FINANCIAL logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption "Risk Factors") and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 
2006 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. All rights reserved.
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2005
Page 3
 
Financial Statements
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2005
Page 4
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2005
Page 5
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2005
Page 6
 
Segment Reporting
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2005
Page 7
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2005
Page 8
 
Key Performance Metrics (3)
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2005
Page 9
 
Key Performance Metrics (3)
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2005
Page 10
 
Key Performance Metrics (3)
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2005
Page 11
 
Activity in Allowance for Loan Losses
 
 
Bank Average Balance Data
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2005
Page 12
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION AND ENDNOTES
 
Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures and Certain Metrics
 
In order to better assess the Company's financial operating results, management believes consolidated operating margin, free cash, EBITDA and interest coverage are appropriate measures of evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company. We believe that the elimination of certain items from these measures is helpful to analysts and investors who may wish to use some or all of this information to analyze our current performance, prospects and valuation. Our management uses non-GAAP information internally to evaluate our operating performance and in formulating our budget for future periods.
 
Consolidated Operating Margin
 
Consolidated operating margin is defined as income before other income, income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change divided by net revenues. Operating margin for Retail and Institutional is based on segment results. Our consolidated statements of operations contain a reconciliation of income before other income, income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change to net income.
 
Free Cash
 
Free cash as reported by the Company represents cash held at Parent and non-Bank or Brokerage subsidiaries less discretionary reserves and excess capital at Bank and Brokerage after regulatory capital requirements and the Company's own regulatory capital guidelines. The Company believes that free cash is a useful measure of the Company's liquidity as it excludes cash reflected on the balance sheet that may not be freely available to the Company.
 
EBITDA
 
EBITDA represents net income from continuing operations before corporate interest expense, taxes and depreciation and amortization. Management believes that EBITDA provides a useful additional measure of our performance by excluding certain non-cash charges and expenses that are not directly related to the performance of our business.
 
Interest Coverage
 
Interest coverage represents EBITDA divided by corporate interest expense. Management believes that by excluding the charges and expenses that are excluded from EBITDA, interest coverage provides a useful additional measure of our ability to continue to meet our interest obligations and our liquidity.
 
It is important to note these metrics and other non-GAAP measures may involve judgment by management and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net income, consolidated statements of cash flows, or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. For complete information on the items excluded from these non-GAAP measures, please see our financial statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" that will be included in the periodic report we expect to file with the SEC with respect to the financial periods discussed herein.
 
(1) For the twelve months ended December 31, 2004, diluted earnings per share is calculated using the if converted' method, which includes the additional dilutive impact assuming conversion of the Company's subordinated convertible debt. Under the if converted' method, the per share numerator excludes the interest expense and related amortization of offering costs from the convertible debt, net of tax, of $20.0 million. The denominator includes the shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the convertible debt of 25.8 million. For all other periods presented the if converted' method is not used as its effect would be anti-dilutive.
 
(2) Reflects elimination of transactions between Retail and Institutional segments, which include deposit transfer pricing, servicing and order flow rebates.
 
(3) Amounts and percentages may not calculate due to rounding.
 
(4) Operating margin is defined as income before other income, income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change ("segment income") divided by net revenues. Operating margin for Retail and Institutional is based on segment results.
 
(5) Total headcount in the quarter ended December 31, 2005, calculation was adjusted to reflect the contribution of BrownCo employees for only one month in the quarter.
 
(6) Enterprise spread is defined as the combined net interest spread generated from the interest-earning assets and liabilities of our segment operating results and does not include corporate interest income or interest expense.
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2005
Page 13
 
(7) Total retail customers in the quarter ended December 31, 2005, calculations were adjusted to reflect the contribution of BrownCo customers for only one month in the quarter.
 
(8) Quarter ended December 31, 2005, estimate.
 
(9) Amounts include a taxable equivalent increase in interest income of $2.6 million and $2.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.


