FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20060419163045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition".
 
On April 19, 2006, the Company announced its first quarter earnings for fiscal year 2006. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information furnished shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or incorporated by reference into any filing thereunder or under the Securities Act of 1933 unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
99.1    Earnings Press Release, dated April 19, 2006
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Contact
Pam Erickson
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
617-296-6080
pam.erickson@etrade.com
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
Adam Townsend
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
703-236-8719
adam.townsend@etrade.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NYSE: ET) today announced record results for its first quarter period ended March 31, 2006, reporting net income of $142 million, or $0.33 per share compared to $92 million, or $0.24 per share a year ago. As previously indicated, the results in the first quarter of 2006 included approximately $22 million, or $0.03 per share, of acquisition-related integration expenses. Excluding these expenses, the Company generated earnings of $0.36 per share. Total net revenue for the first quarter increased 43 percent year over year to a record $598 million. Net interest income after provision for loan losses increased 79 percent year over year to $315 million  representing 53 percent of total net revenue. Enterprise net interest spread increased to 286 basis points as the Company continued to benefit from strong organic growth in customer cash and the integration of customer cash and credit from its recent acquisitions. Non-interest income increased 17 percent year over year to $284 million with higher commission-related revenue and lower gain on sales of loans and securities. Total client assets increased to a record $193 billion, including a record $30 billion in total customer cash and deposits. Total DARTs increased to 181,160 with continued strength from international and options-related activity.
New York, April 19, 2006
The Company also raised its 2006 earnings guidance range to $1.35 - $1.50 per share from the previous range of $1.30 - $1.45. As previously indicated, this range excludes $0.05 per share of acquisition-related integration expenses. Of this $0.05, $0.03 was realized in the first quarter and the Company expects to realize an additional $0.01 in each of the second and third quarters. Including these expenses, the Company now expects to earn $1.30 - $1.45 per share in 2006, up from the previous range of $1.25 - $1.40.
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
Page 2
 
"Our operational focus and financial discipline continues to drive increased customer engagement and unlock the full value of our integrated model," said Mitchell H. Caplan, Chief Executive Officer, E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. "Given the strength of our first quarter results and the growth rates in each of customer cash, credit and assets, we feel comfortable in raising our 2006 earnings outlook today. Having completed the conversion of Harrisdirect and as we prepare to convert BrownCo in early May, we remain extremely encouraged by the trends we are experiencing with respect to economic attrition from these new customers. We will provide further updates to our earnings outlook in July or as we see necessary."
Other selected highlights from the first quarter of 2006:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Historical monthly metric data from January 2003 to March 2006 can be found on the E*TRADE FINANCIAL investor relations site at .
www.etrade.com
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provides financial services including trading, investing, banking and lending for Retail and Institutional customers. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member NASD/SIPC). Bank and lending products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
Important Notice
E*TRADE FINANCIAL and the E*TRADE FINANCIAL logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption "Risk Factors") and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 2006 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. All rights reserved.
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
Page 3
 
Financial Statements
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
Page 4
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
Page 5
 
Segment Reporting
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
Page 6
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
Page 7
 
Key Performance Metrics
(3)
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
Page 8
 
Key Performance Metrics
(3)
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
Page 9
 
Key Performance Metrics
(3)
 
Activity in Allowance for Loan Losses
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
Page 10
 
Average Enterprise Balance Sheet Data
($ in thousands)
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
Page 11
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION AND ENDNOTES
Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures and Certain Metrics
In order to better assess the Company's financial operating results, management believes consolidated operating margin, free cash, EBITDA and interest coverage are appropriate measures for evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company. We believe that the elimination of certain items from these measures is helpful to analysts and investors who may wish to use some or all of this information to analyze our current performance, prospects and valuation. Our management uses non-GAAP information internally to evaluate our operating performance and in formulating our budget for future periods.
Consolidated Operating Margin
Consolidated operating margin is defined as income before other income, income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change divided by net revenues. Operating margin for Retail and Institutional is based on segment results. Our consolidated statements of operations contain a reconciliation of income before other income, income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change to net income.
Free Cash
Free cash as reported by the Company represents cash held at Parent and non-Bank or Brokerage subsidiaries less discretionary reserves plus excess capital at Bank and Brokerage after regulatory capital requirements and the Company's own regulatory capital guidelines. The Company believes that free cash is a useful measure of the Company's liquidity as it excludes cash reflected on the balance sheet that may not be freely available to the Company.
EBITDA
EBITDA represents net income from continuing operations before corporate interest expense, taxes and depreciation and amortization. Management believes that EBITDA provides a useful additional measure of our performance by excluding certain non-cash charges and expenses that are not directly related to the performance of our business.
Interest Coverage
Interest coverage represents EBITDA divided by corporate interest expense. Management believes that by excluding the charges and expenses that are excluded from EBITDA, interest coverage provides a useful additional measure of our ability to continue to meet our interest obligations and our liquidity.
It is important to note these metrics and other non-GAAP measures may involve judgment by management and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net income, consolidated statements of cash flows, or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. For complete information on the items excluded from these non-GAAP measures, please see our financial statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" that will be included in the periodic report we expect to file with the SEC with respect to the financial periods discussed herein.
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
Page 12
 


