FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20060719161225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition".
 
On July 19, 2006, the Company announced its second quarter earnings for fiscal year 2006. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information furnished shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or incorporated by reference into any filing thereunder or under the Securities Act of 1933 unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
99.1    Earnings Press Release, dated July 19, 2006
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Contact
Pam Erickson
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
617-296-6080
pam.erickson@etrade.com
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
Adam Townsend
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
703-236-8719
adam.townsend@etrade.com
 
 
 
 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NYSE: ET) today announced record results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2006, reporting net income of $156 million, or $0.36 per share compared to $102 million, or $0.27 per share a year ago. As previously indicated, the results in the second quarter of 2006 include approximately $8 million, or $0.01 per share, of acquisition-related integration expenses. Excluding these expenses, the Company generated earnings of $0.37 per share. Total net revenue for the second quarter increased 58 percent year over year to a record $611 million. Net interest income after provision for loan losses increased 71 percent year over year to $334 million  representing 55 percent of total net revenue. Enterprise net interest spread increased to 291 basis points as the Company continued to benefit from strong organic growth in customer cash and growth in higher yielding assets. Non-interest income increased 45 percent year over year to $277 million. Operating margin expanded 700 basis points year over year to a record 43 percent.
New York, July 19, 2006
The Company also raised its 2006 earnings guidance for the second time this year to a range of $1.42 - $1.52 per share from the previous range of $1.35 - $1.50. As previously indicated, this range excludes $0.05 per share of acquisition-related integration expenses. Of this $0.05, $0.04 was realized through the first and second quarters, and the Company expects to realize an additional $0.01 in the third quarter. Including these expenses, the Company now expects to earn $1.37 - $1.47 per share on a GAAP basis in 2006, up from the previous range of $1.30 - $1.45.
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2006
Page 2
"The strength of our second quarter results demonstrates the flexibility of our model, particularly amid an environment filled with significant macroeconomic uncertainty," said Mitchell H. Caplan, Chief Executive Officer, E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. "As retail customers respond to the market environment, they are increasingly looking for value from a broader set of financial solutions. Through our compelling value proposition across investing, trading, banking and lending products, we remain ideally positioned to capitalize on short-term market opportunities and long-term secular growth trends."
Other selected highlights from the second quarter of 2006:
 
 
 
 
Historical monthly metric data from January 2003 to June 2006 can be found on the E*TRADE FINANCIAL investor relations site at .
www.etrade.com
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provides financial services including trading, investing, banking and lending for Retail and Institutional customers. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member NASD/SIPC). Bank and lending products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
Important Notice
E*TRADE FINANCIAL and the E*TRADE FINANCIAL logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption "Risk Factors") and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 2006 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation.    All rights reserved.
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2006
Page 3
Financial Statements
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2006
Page 4
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2006
Page 5
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2006
Page 6
Segment Reporting
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2006
Page 7
 
 
2006 GAAP Earnings Guidance and Key Driver Assumptions
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2006
Page 8
Key Performance Metrics
(5)
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2006
Page 9
Key Performance Metrics
(5)
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2006
Page 10
Key Performance Metrics
(5)
 
 
Activity in Allowance for Loan Losses
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2006
Page 11
Average Enterprise Balance Sheet Data
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2006
Page 12
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION AND ENDNOTES
Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures and Certain Metrics
In order to better assess the Company's financial operating results, management believes free cash, EBITDA, interest coverage, EPS excluding acquisition-related integration expenses, enterprise net interest income and enterprise interest-earning assets are appropriate measures for evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company. We believe that the elimination of certain items from these measures is helpful to analysts and investors who may wish to use some or all of this information to analyze our current performance, prospects and valuation. Our management uses non-GAAP information internally to evaluate our operating performance and in formulating our budget for future periods.
Free Cash
Free cash as reported by the Company represents cash held at Parent and non-Bank or Brokerage subsidiaries less discretionary reserves plus excess capital at Bank and Brokerage after regulatory capital requirements and the Company's own regulatory capital guidelines. The Company believes that free cash is a useful measure of the Company's liquidity as it excludes cash reflected on the balance sheet that may not be freely available to the Company.
EBITDA
EBITDA represents net income from continuing operations before corporate interest expense, taxes and depreciation and amortization. Management believes that EBITDA provides a useful additional measure of our performance by excluding certain non-cash charges and expenses that are not directly related to the performance of our business.
Interest Coverage
Interest coverage represents EBITDA divided by corporate interest expense. Management believes that by excluding the charges and expenses that are excluded from EBITDA, interest coverage provides a useful additional measure of our ability to continue to meet our interest obligations and our liquidity.
EPS Excluding Acquisition-Related Integration Expenses
EPS excluding acquisition-related integration expenses represents net income plus acquisition-related integration expenses, net of tax divided by diluted shares. Management believes that excluding charges associated with the integration of our acquisitions from EPS provides a useful measure to assess the operating performance of the Company.
Enterprise Net Interest Income
Enterprise Net Interest Income is taxable equivalent basis net interest income excluding corporate interest income and interest expense, stock conduit interest income and expense and interest earned on customer cash held by third parties. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to analysts and investors as it is a measure of the net interest income generated by our core operations.
Enterprise Interest-Earning Assets
Enterprise interest-earning assets are average interest-bearing assets determined based on the definition of enterprise net interest spread, which excludes corporate interest-earning assets and stock conduit assets. Management believes this metric is an indicator of the Company's ability to grow net interest income by increasing the size of the balance sheet.
It is important to note these metrics and other non-GAAP measures may involve judgment by management and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net income, consolidated statements of cash flows, or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. For complete information on the items excluded from these non-GAAP measures, please see our financial statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" that will be included in the periodic report we expect to file with the SEC with respect to the financial periods discussed herein.
(1) EPS excluding acquisition-related integration expenses is a non-GAAP financial measure per applicable SEC regulations. The $0.01 per share was calculated as acquisition-related integration expenses of $5 million after tax divided by 439,460,000 diluted shares.
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Results for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2006
Page 13
(2) Operating margin is the percentage of every dollar of revenue that goes to net income before other income (expense), income taxes, minority interest and discontinued operations. The percentage is calculated by dividing our income before other income (expense), income taxes, minority interest and discontinued operations by our total net revenue.
(3) Reflects elimination of transactions between Retail and Institutional segments, which include deposit transfer pricing, servicing and order flow rebates.
(4) Enterprise net interest spread is the taxable equivalent rate earned on average enterprise interest-earning assets less the rate paid on average enterprise interest-bearing liabilities, excluding corporate interest-earning assets and liabilities, stock conduit and cash held by third parties.
(5) Amounts and percentages may not calculate due to rounding.
(6) Q2-06 estimate.
(7) Excludes loans to customers on margin.
(8) Includes segregated cash balances.
(9) Free credits are balances held in customer accounts arising from deposits of funds and sales of securities.
(10) Gross-up for tax-exempt securities.
(11) Net interest income earned on average stock conduit assets of $0.4 billion, $0.8 billion and $0.7 billion for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2005, respectively.
(12) Includes interest earned on customer assets of $3.4 billion, $3.6 billion and $1.6 billion for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2005, respectively, held by parties outside E*TRADE FINANCIAL, including third party money market funds and sweep deposit accounts at unaffiliated broker-dealers.


