FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20070917211329.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT 99.1
EXHIBIT 99.2
EXHIBIT 99.3
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 17, 2007, E*TRADE Financial Corporation issued a press release, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, together with the supplemental information attached hereto as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3, all of which are incorporated herein by reference.
The information furnished in this Item 7.01 and in Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) EXHIBITS
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Relations Contact
Pam Erickson
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
617-296-6080
pam.erickson@etrade.com
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
Adam Townsend
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
703-236-8719
adam.townsend@etrade.com
 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC) today announced plans to realign its balance sheet and streamline business operations to focus on its retail growth opportunity. The Company is exiting or restructuring non-core businesses that lack a direct and strategic connection with its retail customers. The Company is also accelerating plans to shift the composition of its balance sheet toward retail assets and liabilities and to synchronize balance sheet growth with customer engagement. In addition, the Company is increasing the provision for loan losses due to charge-offs expected as a result of the disturbance in the credit markets. As a result of these actions, E*TRADE FINANCIAL is revising 2007 earnings guidance to account for higher provision for loan losses, potential securities impairments, reduced balance sheet growth and restructuring charges. Despite these factors, the Company confirms that its balance sheet funding sources remain sound and the Company remains well capitalized based on regulatory standards.
New York, September 17, 2007
Management has provided a presentation outlining its plan and will host a conference call today at 5:30 p.m. (EDT) to present the details. In addition, the Company has updated the Supplemental Portfolio Disclosure originally released on August 16, 2007, with data as of August 31, 2007. Both presentations are available at
https://investor.etrade.com
.
"Today's announcement addresses the recent shifts in the global financial markets and allows us to focus on accelerating plans to further align both our balance sheet and business operations with our core asset  the retail customer," said Mitchell H. Caplan, Chief Executive Officer, E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. "Growth in our target segment continues at record levels. The actions we have taken better position the franchise for future growth and high quality earnings."
The specific details of the plan, and expected financial implications (all figures are pre-tax, with the exception of EPS and net income), include:
 
 
 
 
As a result of the actions outlined above, the Company is revising its earnings outlook for 2007 to account for 1) higher provision for loan losses; 2) potential securities impairments; 3) slower balance sheet growth and composition expectations; and 4) exit and other restructuring charges. For the full year 2007, E*TRADE FINANCIAL expects GAAP net income of between $450 million and $500 million, and earnings per share of between $1.05 and $1.15 per share. This is down from its previous range of $1.53 to $1.67.
Today's conference call will be available to domestic participants by dialing 888-694-4768, and to international participants by dialing 973-872-3197. The conference ID is 9235300. A live audio webcast of this conference call will also be accessible at
https://investor.etrade.com.
 
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provides financial services including trading, investing, banking and lending for retail and institutional customers. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member FINRA/SIPC). Bank and lending products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
Important Notice
E*TRADE FINANCIAL, E*TRADE and the E*TRADE logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption "Risk Factors") and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 2007 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. All rights reserved.




