FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20071207160614.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
OTHER EVENTS
ITEM 8.01.    
 
E*TRADE Financial Corporation ("the Company") is a participant in the Securities and Exchange Commission's ("SEC") voluntary eXtensible Business Reporting Language ("XBRL") filing program. Attached as Exhibit 100 to this report are documents that contain information from the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 (the "10-K"), filed on March 1, 2007 with the SEC, formatted in XBRL. Also, attached to this report is the Company's Intelligent Financial Statement(tm) which is a supplemental PDF that contains information from the 10-K and embeds XBRL financial data in a viewable and printable document. By moving your computer mouse over the displayed data, pop-up CoreFiling TagTips(tm) will show you how the data is internally expressed as XBRL.
 
Users of this data are advised pursuant to Rule 401 of Regulation S-T that the information contained in the XBRL documents is unaudited and these are not the official publicly filed financial statements of the Company. The purpose of submitting these XBRL formatted documents is to test the related format and technology and, as a result, investors should continue to rely on the official version of the furnished documents and not rely on this information in making investment decisions.
 
In accordance with Rule 402 of Regulation S-T, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 100 and the supplemental PDF, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
 
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01.    
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 








