FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20070816215709.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
E*TRADE Financial Corporation is issuing today the information contained in Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith and incorporated by reference in this item 7.01.
The information appearing in this Item 7.01 and in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
 
(d) EXHIBITS
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 


EXHIBIT 99.2
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Relations Contact
Pam Erickson
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
617-296-6080
pam.erickson@etrade.com
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
Adam Townsend
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
703-236-8719
adam.townsend@etrade.com
 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC) released supplemental disclosures today related to the composition and funding sources for its balance sheet. The Company provided a presentation containing additional information to its June 30, 2007 quarterly results, including expanded transparency on the credit quality of its mortgage and securities portfolios. This presentation can be found at . In addition, the Company stated that it has seen no material changes to date with respect to the availability, pricing or margin on its wholesale funding sources, including repurchase agreements. Management maintains that it does not believe that the current market capitalization accurately reflects the financial strength and performance of the business.
New York, August 16, 2007
https://investor.etrade.com
Selected highlights from the presentation include:
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provides financial services including trading, investing, banking and lending for retail and institutional customers. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member FINRA/SIPC). Bank and lending products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
Important Notice
E*TRADE FINANCIAL, E*TRADE and the E*TRADE logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption "Risk Factors") and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
2007 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. All rights reserved.


