FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20081021163104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 21, 2008
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
(Exact name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
(646) 521-4300
(
Registrants Telephone Number, including Area Code)
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02.     RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On October 21, 2008, the Company announced its third quarter earnings for fiscal year 2008. A copy of the Companys press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
The information furnished shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or incorporated by reference into any filing thereunder or under the Securities Act of 1933 unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
99.1      Earnings Press Release, dated October 21, 2008
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2008 Results
Third Quarter Results
Total Net Revenue of $378 million
$518 million in Provision for Loan Losses
Net Loss of $50.5 million, or $0.09 per share ($0.60 loss per share from continuing operations)
Customer Metrics
Daily Average Revenue Trades (DARTs) of 184,000, up 7% from Q208
Opened 215,000 gross new accounts with 41,000 net new accounts, up from 30,000 net new accounts last quarter
Total customer cash and deposits of $33.4 billion, down 1% from Q208
Net new customer asset flows of $800 million
Record end of period retail accounts of 4.4 million, up 1% from Q208 and 4% from the previous year
Corporate Metrics
Received proceeds of approximately $660 million for non-core asset sales, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $450 million
Ended the quarter with Bank excess risk-based capital (excess to the regulatory well-capitalized threshold) of approximately $516 million, and corporate cash of $665 million
Bank Tier-1 and risk-based capital ratios of 6.3%
(1)
and 11.9%, respectively
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--October 21, 2008--E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC) today announced results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2008, reporting a net loss of $50.5 million, or $0.09 per share ($0.60 loss per share from continuing operations), compared to a net loss of $94.6 million, or $0.19 per share, in the prior quarter and a net loss of $58.4 million, or $0.14 per share, a year ago.
Third quarter daily average revenue trades, usually seasonally low, were up 7% over last quarter, mainly due to the volatility of markets in September. Similarly, net new accounts were 41,000 and customer asset flows continued to be positive with $800 million of net inflows during the quarter. Margin loans, however, decreased as a result of declining markets and customer deleveraging.
This quarter E*TRADE demonstrated both the strength of its customer franchise and the depth of its capital plan, even in the face of extraordinary market volatility and economic uncertainty, said Donald H. Layton, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. We absorbed significant credit costs while generating the capital and liquidity to maintain substantial cushions of both.
During the third quarter, the Company realized gains from previously announced non-core asset sales, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $660 million.
The sale of the Companys Canadian business to Scotiabank resulted in proceeds of approximately $515 million, and a pre-tax gain of $428 million.
The sale of the Companys equity stake in IL&FS Investsmart to HSBC resulted in proceeds of approximately $145 million, and a pre-tax gain of $22 million.
Provision for loan losses of $518 million increased by $199 million quarter over quarter, driven primarily by higher expectations for future charge-offs. Total allowance for loan losses increased $238 million to $874 million or 3.3% of gross loans receivable. The Company increased its allowance for loan losses across all three categories of its loan portfolio. Upon completion of our previously announced special credit review in the third quarter, we have revised our forward-looking path of charge-offs in the Home Equity portfolio to be higher than we previously estimated, said Layton. The Company increased its three-year 2008-2010 cumulative loss assumption for home equity by approximately 20% from its previous $1.5 billion estimate.
As previously disclosed, during the third quarter, the Company completed the liquidation of its long-standing investment in preferred shares of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, realizing a total pre-tax loss of $154 million net of hedges on a June 30th investment value of $330 million.
The Company continued to make progress during the third quarter in reducing risk and strengthening its balance sheet, shrinking total loans by $1.2 billion or more than $6.0 billion from a year ago. In addition, undrawn home equity lines have been reduced from more than $7 billion last year to approximately $3 billion as of the end of September.
At the end of the third quarter the Company down-streamed $250 million of preferred equity to the Bank to help bolster the Banks capital position. The Company reported excess risk-based capital at the Bank of approximately $516 million.
The Company estimates that provision expense has peaked in the third quarter and that charge-offs will begin to improve in 2009. While the Company continues to make progress toward returning to profitability, it does not expect to report a quarterly profit in the fourth quarter of 2008.
Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008
With the recent FDIC increase in deposit insurance levels, the Company estimates total uninsured bank customer deposits to be $1.4 billion as of the end of the third quarter, down sharply from $4.3 billion for the second quarter. This change means that approximately 95% of bank customer deposits are covered by FDIC insurance.
The Company has determined that it is eligible for the governments Capital Purchase Program and will be following up with the appropriate governmental agencies.
Historical monthly metrics from September 2004 to September 2008 can be found on the E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations site at .
https://investor.etrade.com
The Company will host a conference call to discuss results beginning at 5:00 p.m. (EDT) today. This conference call will be available to domestic participants by dialing 800-683-1525 and 973-872-3197 for international participants. The conference ID number is 67767152. A live audio webcast and replay of this conference call will also be accessible at .
https://investor.etrade.com
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provides financial services including trading, investing and banking for retail and institutional customers. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member FINRA/SIPC). Bank products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
Important Notice
E*TRADE FINANCIAL, E*TRADE and the E*TRADE logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, macro trends of the economy in general and the residential real estate market, instability in the consumer credit markets and credit trends, rising mortgage interest rates, tighter mortgage lending guidelines across the industry, increased mortgage loan delinquency and default rates, portfolio growth, portfolio seasoning and resolution through collections, sales or charge-offs, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption Risk Factors) and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 2008 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. All rights reserved.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures and Certain Metrics
Management believes that free cash, EBITDA, interest coverage, enterprise net interest income and enterprise interest-earning assets are appropriate measures for evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company. Management believes that the elimination of certain items from the related GAAP measures is helpful to investors and analysts who may wish to use some or all of this information to analyze our current performance, prospects and valuation. Management uses non-GAAP information internally to evaluate our operating performance and in formulating our budget for future periods.
Discontinued Operations and Reporting Changes
Beginning in the second quarter of 2008, the Company re-classified the Consolidated Statement of Income (Loss) to reflect the Canadian brokerage business and lending business as discontinued operations. Additionally, the Company re-defined Total net revenue by separately stating Provision for loan losses as its own line item and reclassified SFAS 133 hedge ineffectiveness from Other operating expenses to the Gain (loss) on loans and securities, net line item. The Company has re-presented the income statement for the past two years on its Investor Relations website.
Free Cash
Free cash represents cash held at the Company and its non-Bank and non-Brokerage subsidiaries, less discretionary reserves, plus excess capital at Bank and Brokerage after application of regulatory capital requirements and the Companys own regulatory capital guidelines. The Company believes that free cash is a useful measure of the Companys liquidity as it excludes cash reflected on the balance sheet that may not be freely available to the Company.
EBITDA
EBITDA represents net income from continuing operations before corporate interest expense, taxes and depreciation and amortization. Management believes that EBITDA provides a useful additional measure of our performance by excluding certain non-cash charges and expenses that are not directly related to the performance of our business.
Interest Coverage
Interest coverage represents EBITDA divided by corporate interest expense. Management believes that by excluding the charges and expenses that are excluded from EBITDA, interest coverage provides a useful additional measure of our ability to continue to meet our interest obligations and our liquidity.
Bank Earnings Before Taxes and Before Credit Losses
Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses represents the pre-tax earnings of E*TRADE Bank Holding Company ("ETBH" or Bank) before discontinued operations, loss on securities, net and provision for loan losses. This metric shows the amount of earnings that the Bank, after accruing for the interest expense on its trust preferred securities, generates each quarter prior to credit related losses, primarily provision and loss on securities. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is an indicator of the level of credit related losses the Bank can absorb without causing a decline in E*TRADE Banks excess risk-based capital.
Enterprise Net Interest Income
Enterprise net interest income is taxable equivalent basis net operating interest income excluding corporate interest income and corporate interest expense, stock conduit interest income and expense and interest earned on customer cash held by third parties. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is a measure of the net operating interest income generated by our core operations.
Enterprise Interest-Earning Assets
Enterprise interest-earning assets consists of the primary interest-earning assets of the Company and includes: loans receivable, mortgage-backed and available-for-sale securities, margin receivables, stock borrow balances, and cash required to be segregated under regulatory guidelines that earn interest for the Company. Management believes that this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is a measure of the primary assets from which the Company generates net operating interest income.
It is important to note these metrics and other non-GAAP measures may involve judgment by management and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net income, consolidated statements of cash flows, or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. For complete information on the items excluded from these non-GAAP measures, please see our financial statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition that will be included in the periodic report the Company expects to file with the SEC with respect to the financial periods discussed herein.
ENDNOTES
(1) Amounts reported reflect the impact of a technical correction to the terms of the purchase of preferred shares of E*TRADE Bank by E*TRADE Financial Corporation, the effect of which was to qualify a contribution of $250 million as Tier 1 Capital, which otherwise would have qualified only as risk-based capital. The contribution was effected on September 29 and the technical correction was effected on October 3. Prior to the technical correction on October 3, the September 30, 2008 Tier 1 Capital Ratio was 5.79% and Excess Tier 1 Capital based on the OTS well-capitalized limit was $359 million.
(2) Because the Company reported a net loss for the second and third quarters of 2008 and third quarter of 2007, the calculation of diluted net loss per share does not include common stock equivalents as they are anti-dilutive and would result in a reduction of net loss per share.
(3) Reflects elimination of transactions between Retail and Institutional segments, which includes deposit and customer payable transfer pricing, servicing and order flow rebates.
(4) Amounts and percentages may not calculate due to rounding.
(5) Operating margin is the percentage of net revenue that results in income (loss) before other income (expense), income taxes and discontinued operations. The percentage is calculated by dividing income (loss) before other income (expense), income taxes and discontinued operations by total net revenue.
(6) Enterprise net interest spread is the taxable equivalent rate earned on average enterprise interest-earning assets less the rate paid on average enterprise interest-bearing liabilities, excluding corporate interest-earning assets and liabilities, stock conduit and customer cash held by third parties.
(7) Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses represents the pre-tax earnings of E*TRADE Bank Holding Company (ETBH or Bank) before discontinued operations, loss on securities, net and provision for loan losses. This metric shows the amount of earnings that the Bank, after accruing for the interest expense on its trust preferred securities, generates each quarter prior to credit related losses, primarily provision and loss on securities. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is an indicator of the level of credit related losses the Bank can absorb without causing a decline in E*TRADE Banks excess risk-based capital. Below is a reconciliation of Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses from Loss before income taxes and discontinued operations:
(a)
Excess risk-based capital is the excess capital that E*TRADE Bank has compared to the regulatory minimum well-capitalized threshold.
(a)
Non-bank (income) loss represents all of the Companys subsidiaries including Corporate and Brokerage, but excluding the Bank.
(b)
Loss on securities, net is included in the Loss on loans and securities, net line item on the consolidated statement of income (loss).
(c)
(8) Target segment accounts are accounts held by customers with over $50,000 in assets and/or generating 30 or more trades per quarter.
(9) Other retail accounts are accounts that (a) were opened less than 90 days prior to the end of the relevant quarter; (b) only include a lending relationship; or (c) that otherwise do not meet the definition of a target segment account.
(10) Net new customers from discontinued operations and other consists of customers related to our discontinued operations and the impact of an improvement in our customer identification methodology implemented during the second quarter of 2008. End of period total customers declined during Q208 as a result of these two items.
(11) Beginning in Q208, products per customer increased due to the impact of customers related to our discontinued operations and an improvement in our customer identification methodology implemented during the second quarter of 2008.
(12) Excludes customer payables (cash) from discontinued operations.
(13) Net new customer assets are total inflows to all new and existing customer accounts less total outflows from all closed and existing customer accounts. In Q208, net new customer assets from discontinued operations and other consists of the asset outflow related to the sale of Retirement Advisors of America.
(14) Q308 estimate.
(15) Includes unpaid principal balances and premiums (discounts).
(16) Excludes loans to customers on margin.
(17) Includes segregated cash balances.
(18) Gross-up for tax-exempt securities.
(19) Includes interest earned on average customer assets of $3.3 billion, $3.4 billion and $4.1 billion for the quarters ended September 30, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2007, respectively, held by parties outside E*TRADE FINANCIAL, including third party money market funds and sweep deposit accounts at unaffiliated financial institutions.
(20) LTV/CLTV data is based on LTV/CLTV ratios at the time of loan origination, and has not been updated to reflect changes in property values since that time. CLTV calculations for home equity lines of credit are based on drawn balances. FICO score is based on FICO scores at the time of loan origination, and has not been updated to reflect changes in credit scores since that time.
CONTACT: Pam Erickson, 617-296-6080 or Robert Simmons, 646-521-4406
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Relations Contact
pam.erickson@etrade.com
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
robert.simmons@etrade.com


