FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20080701164526.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
Effective June 30, 2008 (the Effective Date), the Board of Directors expanded the number of members of the Board from ten to eleven and elected Mr. Joseph L. Sclafani as a Director. Mr. Sclafani will be a Class III member of the Board and will stand for election at the next Annual Shareholders Meeting in May of 2009.  Also as of the Effective Date, the Board of Directors appointed Mr. Sclafani to serve as a member of its Audit Committee and its Finance and Risk Oversight Committee.   The Board of Directors further voted to designate Mr. Sclafani an audit committee financial expert as defined in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and implementing regulations.
Consistent with the Companys non-employee director compensation policy, as of the Effective Date, the Board of Directors approved the payment of an annual retainer to Mr. Sclafani in the amount of $25,000; a grant of 20,000 stock options, which will vest in two equal annual installments on the anniversary of the Effective Date; and a grant of restricted stock with a fair market value on the date of grant equal to $25,000, which will also vest in two equal annual installments on the anniversary of the Effective Date.  Otherwise, Mr. Sclafani will be compensated under the terms of the Companys non-employee director compensation policy as in effect from time to time, as described in the Companys proxy statement.
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 


