FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20090915073013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
released its Monthly Activity Report for August 2009.  The press release containing this Monthly Activity Report, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated herein in its entirety.  The Company incorporates by reference the section entitled Risk Factors from page S-7 through page S-19 of the Prospectus Supplement dated September 14, 2009 into this Current Report.
On September 15, 2009, E*TRADE Financial Corporation (the Company)
 
 
(d)      .
Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Relations Contact
Pam Erickson
617-296-6080
pam.erickson@etrade.com
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
Brett Goodman
646-521-4406
brett.goodman@etrade.com
 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC) today released its Monthly Activity Report for August and provided an intra-quarter update on its loan portfolio delinquencies and certain key financial and balance sheet metrics.
New York, September 15, 2009
The Company ended August with record brokerage accounts of more than 2.7 million, including gross new brokerage accounts of 31,324 and net new brokerage accounts of 11,321 during the month.  Total accounts ended the month at more than 4.5 million.  Total Daily Average Revenue Trades (DARTs) for August were 208,495  an increase of 18.3 percent from July and 37.4 percent from the year ago period.  The Company reported approximately 200,000 DARTs for September month to date (as of September 11).
Customer security holdings increased 2.9 percent and brokerage related cash increased by $982 million in August.  This was offset by a $380 million reduction in Bank related customer cash and deposits, as the Company continued to execute on its balance sheet reduction strategy.  This led to a 2.6 percent increase in total customer assets in the month and flat net new customer assets.  Customers were net sellers of approximately $600 million of securities in August.
The Company also provided an update concerning delinquencies in its loan portfolio.
Special mention delinquencies (30 to 89 days delinquent) for its home equity portfolio, which represents the Companys greatest exposure to loan losses, remained flat from June 30 to August 31.  Home equity at risk delinquencies (30 to 179 days delinquent) declined seven percent from June 30 to August 31.  Total special mention delinquencies for the Companys loan portfolio, which includes one- to four-family, home equity and consumer and other loans, declined by four percent quarter to date, as of August 31, 2009.
Detailed information concerning loan delinquencies is provided in table form on page 4 of this release.
The Company also provided an update to certain key financial and balance sheet metrics through the first two months of the third quarter, as well as certain forecasts for the third quarter 2009 results.  The Company cautions that this data is preliminary as of September 14, 2009 and subject to change.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Monthly Activity Report for August 2009, Page 2
 
July and August Quarter-to-Date Results
August Bank Capital Metrics
The Company also forecasted a range for loan loss provision and expected net charge-offs for the full third quarter:
The estimated range for net charge-offs and provision expenses are based on a combination of actual data from our loan servicers through the second month of the quarter, a forecast for loan charge-offs and recoveries for the month ended September 30, 2009 and an updated loan loss forecast as of July 31, 2009, following our standard quarterly procedures.  The forecast is based on actual loan delinquencies through July 31, 2009, and model calibration for delinquency roll rates was based on results as of the same period.  The Companys methodology for estimating allowance for loan losses is more fully described in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(more)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Monthly Activity Report for August 2009, Page 4
 
 
 
Loan Delinquency Data
(1)
 
 
One- to Four-Family ($MM)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Monthly Activity Report for August 2009, Page 5
 
 
Supplemental Metrics
 
 
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provides financial services including online brokerage and related banking products and services to retail investors.  Specific business segments include Trading and Investing and Balance Sheet Management.  Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member FINRA/SIPC).  Bank products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
 
Important Notices
E*TRADE FINANCIAL, E*TRADE and the E*TRADE logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation.
The statements contained in this news release that are forward looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially.  The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, potential negative regulatory consequences resulting from actions by the Office of Thrift Supervision or other regulators and related matters.  Additional uncertainties and risks affecting the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of the Company include, but are not limited to, potential changes in market activity, anticipated changes in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, macro trends of the economy in general and the residential real estate market, instability in the consumer credit markets and credit trends, rising mortgage interest rates, tighter mortgage lending guidelines across the industry, increased mortgage loan delinquency and default rates, portfolio growth, portfolio seasoning and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Monthly Activity Report for August 2009, Page 6
 
 
 
resolution through collections, sales or charge-offs, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, including changes to the U.S. Treasurys Troubled Asset Relief Program, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages.  Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the Risk Factors section of the Companys prospectus supplement dated September 14, 2009, and in the information included or incorporated in the annual, quarterly and current reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K previously filed by E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC (including information under the caption Risk Factors).  Any forward-looking statement included in this release speaks only as of the date of this communication; the Company disclaims any obligation to update any information.
Registration Statement. The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) and a prospectus supplement with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement, the prospectus supplement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus and prospectus supplement if you request it by calling Sandler ONeill & Partners, L.P. toll-free at 866.805.4128.
 2009 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
 
 


