FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20090127163309.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 27, 2009
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation
(Exact name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
(646) 521-4300
(
Registrants Telephone Number, including Area Code)
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02.     RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On January 27, 2009, the Company announced its fourth quarter earnings for fiscal year 2008. A copy of the Companys press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
The information furnished shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or incorporated by reference into any filing thereunder or under the Securities Act of 1933 unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2008 Results
Fourth Quarter Results
Total Net Revenue of $486 million
Provision for Loan Losses of $513 million
Net Loss of $276 million, or $0.50 per share
Record Daily Average Revenue Trades (DARTs) of 216,000, up 18% quarter over quarter
Record Retail accounts of 4.5 million, with net new accounts of 97,000
Total customer cash and deposits of $32.3 billion
Customer net asset inflows of $3.5 billion
Full-Year 2008 Performance
Total Net Revenue of $1.9 billion
Provision for Loan Losses of $1.6 billion
Net Loss of $512 million, or $1.00 per share ($1.58 loss per share from continuing operations)
Raised $754 million in cash proceeds through non-core asset sales
Deleveraged the balance sheet by $8.3 billion, $5.7 billion in net loans
Increased allowance for loan losses to $1.1 billion
Capital and Liquidity Metrics
Bank Tier-1 and risk-based capital ratios of 6.29%
and 12.96%, respectively
Bank excess risk-based capital (excess to the regulatory well-capitalized threshold) of approximately $716 million
Bank cash of $3.2 billion and corporate cash of $435 million; unused FHLB lines of $9.8 billion
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 27, 2009--E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC) today announced results for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2008, reporting a net loss of $276 million, or $0.50 per share, compared with a net loss of $1.7 billion, or $3.98 per share, a year ago. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company reported a net loss of $512 million or $1.00 per share ($1.58 loss per share from continuing operations), compared to a net loss of $1.4 billion or $3.40 per share in 2007.
We successfully grew and improved our retail franchise in 2008, despite the troubled economy, said Donald H. Layton, Chairman and CEO, E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. We also aggressively raised capital, built liquidity and reduced loan assets to ensure the Company remained on firm financial footing despite high credit losses.
The Company saw increased customer engagement stemming from high market volatility in the fourth quarter. The Company reported a record 216,000 DARTs, an increase of 18% over the prior quarter. The Company added 97,000 net new accounts, including 77,000 brokerage accounts, during the quarter, representing its best organic account growth in more than five years. At quarter end, E*TRADE FINANCIAL reported a record 4.5 million retail customer accounts, which included a record 2.6 million brokerage accounts. Customer net asset inflows were $3.5 billion during the quarter, as customers were net buyers of $1.9 billion in securities. Margin receivables, however, declined substantially as a result of lower market values and customer deleveraging.
Commissions, fees, principal transactions and other revenue for the fourth quarter were $224 million, which compared with $213 million in the third quarter. This reflected the increase in DARTs, partially offset by a lower average commission per trade due to mix.
The fourth-quarter results included net interest income of $274 million, which was down from $325 million in the third quarter. This resulted from abnormal spreads among federal funds, LIBOR and customer deposit rates, as well as a $3.7 billion reduction in margin and legacy portfolio loans.
The Company continued to make progress during the fourth quarter in reducing risk and strengthening its balance sheet, shrinking its bank loan portfolio by approximately $900 million from last quarter, or more than $5 billion from a year ago, of which $4 billion was related to prepayment or scheduled principal reductions. In addition, undrawn home equity lines have been reduced from more than $7 billion last year to $2.5 billion as of the end of 2008.
Provision for loan losses of $513 million decreased slightly from the $518 million in the third quarter as the Company increased its allowance for loan losses across all three categories of its loan portfolio. Net charge-offs in the quarter were $306 million, an increase of $27 million from the prior quarter. Total allowance for loan losses increased $206 million to $1.1 billion, or 4.23% of gross loans receivable, and coverage of nonperforming loans increased to 115%.
During the fourth quarter, the U.S. economy went into a decline of historic proportions, said Mr. Layton. Based upon the resulting increase in delinquencies, the Company increased its total loss allowance by $206 million or 24% from the third quarter, which generated a provision relatively unchanged from the prior quarter.
At the end of the year, the Company reported Bank Tier-1 and risk-based capital ratios of 6.29% and 12.96%, respectively. The Bank had excess Tier-1 capital of $578 million and excess risk-based capital (i.e., above the level regulators define as well-capitalized) of $716 million as of December 31, 2008. This included $250 million in preferred equity the Company injected into the Bank in the fourth quarter.
We are absolutely dedicated to maintaining our capital strength on behalf of our customers and shareholders. Our year-end capital and liquidity positions, despite the extremely difficult economy, are indicative of this commitment, Mr. Layton said.
Separately, E*TRADE FINANCIAL also announced that its application to the U.S. Department of Treasury for funding under the TARP Capital Purchase Program remains under active consideration. The Company noted that it cannot predict when a final decision will be reached.
Historical monthly metrics from December 2004 to December 2008 can be found on the E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations site at .
https://investor.etrade.com
The Company will host a conference call to discuss the results beginning at 5:00 p.m. EST today. This conference call will be available to domestic participants by dialing 800-683-1525 and 973-872-3197 for international participants. The conference ID number is 79858772. A live audio webcast and replay of this conference call will also be available at .
https://investor.etrade.com
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provides financial services including trading, investing and banking for retail and institutional customers. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member FINRA/SIPC). Bank products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
Important Notice
E*TRADE FINANCIAL, E*TRADE and the E*TRADE logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, macro trends of the economy in general and the residential real estate market, instability in the consumer credit markets and credit trends, rising mortgage interest rates, tighter mortgage lending guidelines across the industry, increased mortgage loan delinquency and default rates, portfolio growth, portfolio seasoning and resolution through collections, sales or charge-offs, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, including changes to the U.S. Treasurys Troubled Asset Relief Program, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption Risk Factors) and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any forward looking statement included in this release speaks only as of the date of this communication; the Company disclaims any obligation to update any information.
 2009 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. All rights reserved.
Financial Statements
Supplemental Portfolio Disclosure
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures and Certain Metrics
Management believes that free cash, EBITDA, interest coverage, enterprise net interest income and enterprise interest-earning assets are appropriate measures for evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company. Management believes that the elimination of certain items from the related GAAP measures is helpful to investors and analysts who may wish to use some or all of this information to analyze our current performance, prospects and valuation. Management uses non-GAAP information internally to evaluate our operating performance and in formulating our budget for future periods.
Discontinued Operations and Reporting Changes
Beginning in the second quarter of 2008, the Company re-classified the Consolidated Statement of Loss to reflect the Canadian brokerage business and lending business as discontinued operations. Additionally, the Company re-defined Total net revenue by separately stating Provision for loan losses as its own line item and reclassified SFAS 133 hedge ineffectiveness from Other operating expenses to the Loss on loans and securities, net line item. The Company has re-presented the income statement for the past two years on its Investor Relations website.
Free Cash
Free cash represents cash held at the Company and its non-Bank and non-Brokerage subsidiaries, less discretionary reserves, plus excess capital at Bank and Brokerage after application of regulatory capital requirements and the Companys own regulatory capital guidelines. The Company believes that free cash is a useful measure of the Companys liquidity as it excludes cash reflected on the balance sheet that may not be freely available to the Company.
EBITDA
EBITDA represents net income from continuing operations before corporate interest expense, taxes and depreciation and amortization. Management believes that EBITDA provides a useful additional measure of our performance by excluding certain non-cash charges and expenses that are not directly related to the performance of our business.
Interest Coverage
Interest coverage represents EBITDA divided by corporate interest expense. Management believes that by excluding the charges and expenses that are excluded from EBITDA, interest coverage provides a useful additional measure of our ability to continue to meet our interest obligations and our liquidity.
Bank Earnings Before Taxes and Before Credit Losses
Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses represents the pre-tax earnings of E*TRADE Bank Holding Company ("ETBH" or Bank) before discontinued operations, loss on securities, net and provision for loan losses. This metric shows the amount of earnings that the Bank, after accruing for the interest expense on its trust preferred securities, generates each quarter prior to credit related losses, primarily provision and loss on securities. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is an indicator of the level of credit related losses the Bank can absorb without causing a decline in E*TRADE Banks excess risk-based capital.
Enterprise Net Interest Income
Enterprise net interest income is taxable equivalent basis net operating interest income excluding corporate interest income and corporate interest expense, stock conduit interest income and expense and interest earned on customer cash held by third parties. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is a measure of the net operating interest income generated by our core operations.
Enterprise Interest-Earning Assets
Enterprise interest-earning assets consists of the primary interest-earning assets of the Company and includes: loans receivable, mortgage-backed and available-for-sale securities, margin receivables, stock borrow balances and cash required to be segregated under regulatory guidelines that earn interest for the Company. Management believes that this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is a measure of the primary assets from which the Company generates net operating interest income.
It is important to note these metrics and other non-GAAP measures may involve judgment by management and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net income, consolidated statements of cash flows, or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. For complete information on the items excluded from these non-GAAP measures, please see our financial statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition that will be included in the periodic report the Company expects to file with the SEC with respect to the financial periods discussed herein.
ENDNOTES
(1) Because the Company reported a net loss for the third and fourth quarters of 2008 and fourth quarter of 2007, the calculation of diluted net loss per share does not include common stock equivalents as they are anti-dilutive and would result in a reduction of net loss per share.
(2) Reflects elimination of transactions between Retail and Institutional segments, which includes deposit and customer payable transfer pricing, servicing and order flow rebates.
(3) Amounts and percentages may not calculate due to rounding.
(4) Operating margin is the percentage of net revenue that results in income (loss) before other income (expense), income taxes and discontinued operations. The percentage is calculated by dividing income (loss) before other income (expense), income taxes and discontinued operations by total net revenue.
(5) Enterprise net interest spread is the taxable equivalent rate earned on average enterprise interest-earning assets less the rate paid on average enterprise interest-bearing liabilities, excluding corporate interest-earning assets and liabilities, stock conduit and customer cash held by third parties.
(6) Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses represents the pre-tax earnings of E*TRADE Bank Holding Company (ETBH or Bank) before discontinued operations, loss on securities, net and provision for loan losses. This metric shows the amount of earnings that the Bank, after accruing for the interest expense on its trust preferred securities, generates each quarter prior to credit related losses, primarily provision and loss on securities. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is an indicator of the level of credit related losses the Bank can absorb without causing a decline in E*TRADE Banks excess risk-based capital. Below is a reconciliation of Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses from Loss before income taxes and discontinued operations:
(a)
Excess risk-based capital is the excess capital that E*TRADE Bank has compared to the regulatory minimum well-capitalized threshold.
(a)
Non-bank (income) loss represents all of the Companys subsidiaries including Corporate and Brokerage, but excluding the Bank.
(b)
Loss on securities, net is included in the Loss on loans and securities, net line item on the consolidated statement of loss.
(c)
(7) Target segment accounts are accounts held by customers with more than $50,000 in assets and/or generating 30 or more trades per quarter.
(8) Other retail accounts are accounts that (a) were opened less than 90 days prior to the end of the relevant quarter; (b) only include a lending relationship; or (c) that otherwise do not meet the definition of a target segment account.
(9) Net new customers from discontinued operations and other consists of customers related to our discontinued operations and the impact of an improvement in our customer identification methodology implemented during the second quarter of 2008.
(10) Beginning in Q208, products per customer increased due to the impact of customers related to our discontinued operations and an improvement in our customer identification methodology implemented during the second quarter of 2008.
(11) Excludes customer payables (cash) from discontinued operations.
(12) Net new customer assets are total inflows to all new and existing customer accounts less total outflows from all closed and existing customer accounts.
(13) Q408 estimate.
(14) Includes unpaid principal balances and premiums (discounts).
(15) Excludes loans to customers on margin.
(16) Includes segregated cash balances.
(17) Gross-up for tax-exempt securities.
(18) Includes interest earned on average customer assets of $3.0 billion, $3.3 billion and $3.8 billion for the quarters ended December 31, 2008, September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, held by parties outside E*TRADE FINANCIAL, including third party money market funds and sweep deposit accounts at unaffiliated financial institutions.
(19) LTV/CLTV data is based on LTV/CLTV ratios at the time of loan origination, and has not been updated to reflect changes in property values since that time. CLTV calculations for home equity lines of credit are based on drawn balances. FICO score is based on FICO scores at the time of loan origination, and has not been updated to reflect changes in credit scores since that time.
CONTACT: Pam Erickson, 617-296-6080 or Brett Goodman, 646-521-4406
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Relations Contact
pam.erickson@etrade.com
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
brett.goodman@etrade.com


