FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20090508084258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1 - Registrant's Business and Operations
 
On May 8, 2009, E*TRADE Financial Corporation (the "") entered into a Distribution Agreement (the "") with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (""). Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Company may offer and sell shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share, from time to time through J.P. Morgan, as the Company's distribution agent for the offer and sale of the shares, up to an aggregate sales price of $150,000,000 (the ""). Sales of the Shares, if any, will be made by means of ordinary brokers' transactions on the NASDAQ Global Select Market at market prices or as otherwise agreed with J.P. Morgan. The Company may also agree to sell shares to J.P. Morgan, as principal, for its own account, on terms agreed to by the Company and J.P. Morgan.
Company
Agreement
J.P. Morgan
Shares
The Shares will be issued pursuant to the Company's shelf registration statement (the "Registration Statement") on Form S-3 (File No. 333-158636), which became effective upon filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 17, 2009.
J.P. Morgan and its affiliates have provided, and may in the future provide, investment banking, commercial banking and other financial services for us in the ordinary course of business, for which they have received and will receive customary compensation. J.P. Morgan and its affiliates also have counterparty trading relationships with us.
The Agreement is filed as Exhibit 1.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and the description of the Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to such exhibit. For a more detailed description of the Agreement, see the disclosure under the caption "Plan of Distribution" contained in the Company's Prospectus Supplement dated May 8, 2009 to the Prospectus dated April 17, 2009, which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which disclosure is hereby incorporated by reference. The Agreement is also filed with reference to, and is hereby incorporated by reference into, the Registration Statement.
In addition, we hereby incorporate by reference the section entitled "Risk Factors" from page S-6 through page S-18 of the Prospectus Supplement dated May 8, 2009 into this Current Report.
A copy of the opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, relating to the legality of the Shares, is filed as Exhibit 5.1 to this Current Report and is filed with reference to, and is hereby incorporated by reference into, the Registration Statement.
Section 9 - Financial Statement and Exhibits
 
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
May 8, 2009
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
383 Madison Avenue
New York, New York 10179
Ladies and Gentlemen:
E*TRADE Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), confirms its agreement with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as agent and/or principal under any Terms Agreement (as defined in Section 1(a) below) (""), with respect to the issuance and sale from time to time by the Company, in the manner and subject to the terms and conditions described below (this ""), of shares (the "") of common stock, $0.01 par value per share (the ""), of the Company having an aggregate Gross Sales Price (as defined in Section 2(b) below) of up to $150,000,000 (the "") on the terms set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement. The Shares are described in the Prospectus referred to below.
Company
JPMS
Agreement
Shares
Common Stock
Maximum Amount
The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-158636) for the registration of the Shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the ""); and such registration statement sets forth the material terms of the offering, sale and plan of distribution of the Shares and contains additional information concerning the Company and its business. As used herein, "" means such registration statement, as amended at the time of such registration statement's effectiveness for purposes of Section 11 of the Securities Act, as such section applies to JPMS, including (1) all documents filed as a part thereof or incorporated, or deemed to be incorporated, by reference therein and (2) any information contained or incorporated by reference in a prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, to the extent such information is deemed, pursuant to Rule 430B or Rule 430C under the Securities Act, to be part of the registration statement at the effective time. "" means the prospectus dated April 17, 2009, filed as part of the Registration Statement, including the documents incorporated by reference therein as of the date of such prospectus; "" means the most recent prospectus supplement relating to the Shares, to be filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act on or before the second business day after the date hereof (or such earlier time as may be required under the Securities Act), in the form furnished by the Company to JPMS in connection with the offering of the Shares; "" means the Prospectus Supplement (and any additional prospectus supplement prepared in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4(b) or 4(h) of this Agreement and filed in accordance with the provisions of Rule 424(b)) together with the Basic Prospectus attached to or
Commission
Securities Act
Registration Statement
Basic Prospectus
Prospectus Supplement
Prospectus
used with the Prospectus Supplement; and "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Prospectus Supplement or the Prospectus shall, unless otherwise stated, be deemed to refer to and include the documents, if any, incorporated, or deemed to be incorporated, by reference therein (the ""), including, unless the context otherwise requires, the documents, if any, filed as exhibits to such Incorporated Documents. Any reference herein to the terms "amend," "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Prospectus Supplement, the Prospectus or any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus shall, unless stated otherwise, be deemed to refer to and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "") on or after the initial effective date of the Registration Statement or the date of the Basic Prospectus, the Prospectus Supplement, the Prospectus or such Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, and deemed to be incorporated therein by reference.
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
Incorporated Documents
Exchange Act
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) the Exchange Business Day(s) on which the Shares subject to such Agency Transaction are intended to be sold (each, a "");
Purchase Date
(ii) the maximum number of Shares that the Company intends to sell (the "") on, or over the course of, such Purchase Date(s); that the number of Shares sold on each such Purchase Date shall be no more than 25% of the ADTV (as defined in Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act) in the Common Stock on the Exchange for the four calendar weeks preceding the week in which the date of delivery of the Transaction Notice occurs, or as otherwise agreed between the Company and JPMS and documented in the relevant Transaction Notice; and
Specified Number of Shares
provided
(iii) the lowest price, if any, at which the Company is willing to sell Shares on such Purchase Date(s) (each, a "").
Floor Price
The Company shall have responsibility for maintaining records with respect to the aggregate dollar amount of Shares sold, or for otherwise monitoring the availability of Shares for sale under the Registration Statement. In the event that more than one Transaction Notice with respect to any Purchase Date(s) is accepted by the Company, the latest executed Transaction Notice shall govern any sales of Shares for the relevant Purchase Date, except to the extent of any action occurring pursuant to a prior accepted Transaction Notice and prior to the acceptance of such latest Transaction Notice. The Company or JPMS may, upon notice to the other party hereto by telephone (confirmed promptly by e-mail in "pdf" format or facsimile), suspend the offering of the Shares; , , that such suspension or termination shall not affect or impair the parties' respective obligations with respect to the Shares sold hereunder prior to the giving of such notice. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the terms of any Agency Transaction contemplate that Shares shall be sold on more than one Purchase Date, then the Company and JPMS shall mutually agree to such additional terms and conditions as they deem necessary in respect of such multiple Purchase Dates, and such additional terms and conditions shall be set forth in the relevant Transaction Notice and be binding to the same extent as any other terms contained therein.
provided
however
References herein to this Agreement shall, unless the context otherwise requires, include all Transaction Notices accepted by the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) The terms set forth in a Terms Agreement shall not be binding on the Company or JPMS unless and until the Company and JPMS have each executed such Terms Agreement accepting all of the terms of such Terms Agreement. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of a Terms Agreement, the terms of such Terms Agreement shall control.
 
 
3. . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, JPMS, on and as of (i) the date hereof, (ii) each date on which the Company accepts a Transaction Notice (the "") or executes and delivers a Terms Agreement, (iii) each Time of Sale (as defined below), (iv) each Settlement Date and (v) each Bring-Down Delivery Date (as defined in Section 6(b)) (each such date listed in (i) through (v), a ""), as follows:
Representations, Warranties and Agreements of the Company
Time of Acceptance
Representation Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any subsidiary delivered to JPMS or to counsel to JPMS pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company to JPMS as to the matters covered thereby.
 
4. . The Company hereby agrees with JPMS as follows:
Certain Covenants of the Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. . JPMS's obligation to execute and deliver this Agreement shall be subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions in connection with, and on the date of the execution of, this Agreement:
Execution of Agreement
 
(i) an officer's certificate signed by one of the Company's executive officers, dated the date of this Agreement, certifying as to the matters set forth in hereto;
Exhibit C
(ii) an opinion and negative assurance letter of Davis Polk & Wardwell, special counsel to the Company, addressed to JPMS and dated the date of this Agreement, in the form of Exhibit D hereto;
(iii) an opinion of internal counsel of the Company, addressed to JPMS and dated the date of this Agreement, in the form of Exhibit E hereto
(iv) a "comfort" letter of Deloitte & Touche LLP, addressed to JPMS and dated the date of this Agreement, addressing such matters as JPMS may reasonably request;
(v) a certificate signed by the Company's corporate secretary, annexing, among other documents, the resolutions duly adopted by the Company's board of directors authorizing the Company's execution of this Agreement and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby, including the issuance and sale of the Shares; and
 
(vi) such other documents as JPMS shall reasonably request; and
 
All opinions, letters and other documents referred to in Sections 5(a) and 5(b) above shall be satisfactory in form and substance to JPMS.
6. . The Company further covenants and agrees with JPMS as follows:
Additional Covenants of the Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All opinions, letters and other documents referred to in Sections 6(b) through (d), inclusive, above shall be satisfactory in form and substance to JPMS.
7. . JPMS's obligation to solicit purchases on an agency basis for the Shares or otherwise take any action pursuant to a Transaction Notice that has been accepted by the Company and to purchase the Shares pursuant to any Terms Agreement shall be subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Conditions of JPMS's Obligation
 
(i) The representations, warranties and agreements on the part of the Company herein contained or contained in any certificate of an officer or officers of the Company delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof shall be true and correct in all respects.
 
(ii) The Company shall have performed and observed its covenants and other obligations hereunder and/or under any Terms Agreement, as the case may be, in all material respects.
(iii) In the case of an Agency Transaction, from the Time of Acceptance until the Agency Settlement Date, or, in the case of a Principal Transaction pursuant to a Terms Agreement, from the time of execution and delivery of the Terms Agreement by the Company until the Principal Settlement Date, trading in the Common Stock on the Exchange shall not have been suspended.
(iv) From the date of this Agreement, no event or condition of a type described in Section 3(e) hereof shall have occurred or shall exist, which event or condition is not disclosed in any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, the Prospectus or any Incorporated Document prior to the commencement of trading on the applicable trading date for such Shares and the effect of which in the reasonable judgment of JPMS makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Shares on the applicable Settlement Date on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement or any Terms Agreement, as the case may be, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus and the Prospectus.
(v) Subsequent to the Time of Acceptance or the time of execution and delivery of the Terms Agreement by the Company, as the case may be, (A) no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded any debt securities of or guaranteed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or Standard & Poor's (a division of the McGraw Hill Companies, Inc.) and (B) neither organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, or has changed its outlook with respect to, its rating of any debt securities of or guaranteed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading).
(vi) The Shares to be issued pursuant to the Transaction Notice or pursuant to a Terms Agreement, as applicable, shall have been approved for listing on the Exchange, subject only to notice of issuance.
(vii)(A) No action shall have been taken and no statute, rule, regulation or order shall have been enacted, adopted or issued by any federal, state or foreign governmental or regulatory authority that would, as of the relevant Settlement Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Shares and (B) no injunction or order of any federal, state or foreign court shall have been issued that would, as of the relevant Settlement Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Shares.
 
(viii)(A) No order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall be in effect, no proceeding for such purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act shall be pending before or threatened by the Commission and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act shall have been received by the Company; (B) the Prospectus and each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus shall have been timely filed with the Commission under the Securities Act (in the case of any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Securities Act); (C) all requests by the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of JPMS; and (D) no suspension of the qualification of the Shares for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, and no initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes, will have occurred and be in effect.
(ix) No amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus shall have been filed to which JPMS shall have reasonably objected in writing.
(x) All filings with the Commission required by Rule 424 under the Act to have been filed by each Time of Sale or related Settlement Date shall have been made within the applicable time period prescribed for such filing by Rule 424 (without reliance on Rule 424(b)(8)).
(xi) The Common Stock shall be an "actively-traded security" excepted from the requirements of Rule 101 of Regulation M under the Exchange Act by subsection (c)(1) of such rule.
(xii) The Current Report on Form 8-K referred to in "Prospectus Supplement SummaryRecent Developments" in the prospectus supplement dated May 8, 2008 relating to the Shares shall be in form and substance substantially as described to JPMS prior to the date of this Agreement and shall have been filed with the Commission by a date, following the date of this Agreement, that is reasonably satisfactory to JPMS.
 
 
 
 
(ii) In the case of any sale by the Company pursuant to a Terms Agreement, the obligations of the Company pursuant to such Terms Agreement and this Agreement may not be terminated by the Company without the prior written consent of JPMS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. . All notices and other communications under this Agreement and any Terms Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted and confirmed by any standard form of communication, to the applicable party at the addresses indicated below and:
Notices
 
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
383 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10179
Attention: Equity Syndicate Desk
Facsimile number (212) 622-8358
Special Equities Group
Facsimile number (212) 622-0398
Lisa M. Hunt
Facsimile number: (212) 622-0398
e-mail
lisa.m.hunt@jpmorgan.com
And
Hank Wilson
Facsimile number: (212) 622-8358
e-mail
hank.wilson@jpmorgan.com
with a copy to:
Cahill Gordon & Reindel
LLP
80 Pine Street
New York, NY 10005
Telecopy No.: (212) -269-5420
Confirmation No.: (212) 701-3000
Attention: Daniel J. Zubkoff, Esq. and Darren Silver, Esq.
 
E*TRADE Financial Corporation
135 East 57
th
Street
New York, New York 10022
Attention: General Counsel and Chief Financial Officer
Facsimile No.: (571) 227-7576 and (571) 227-7598
with a copy to (which shall not constitute notice):
Davis Polk & Wardwell
1600 El Camino Real
Menlo Park, California 94025
Facsimile No.: (650) 752-2111, (650) 752-3611 and (650) 752-3622
Confirmation No.: (650) 752-2022 and (650) 752-2011
Attention: Bruce K. Dallas, Esq. and Sarah K. Solum, Esq.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Transaction Notices shall be delivered to the Company via facsimile and e-mail in ".pdf" format to Bruce Nolop at , (571) 227-7598, with a copy to Todd MacKay at , (703) 236-7340, and receipt confirmed by telephone at (646) 521-4333 and (703) 236-8127, and an acceptance of a Transaction Notice shall be delivered to JPMS via facsimile or e-mail to Lisa M. Hunt (facsimile number (212) 622-0398; e-mail lisa.m.hunt@jpmorgan.com), Steve Dearing (facsimile number (212) 622-0398; e-mail steve.dearing@jpmorgan.com) and Pooneet G. Kant (facsimile number (212) 622-0398; e-mail pooneet.g.kant@jpmorgan.com).
bruce.nolop@etrade.com
tmackay@etrade.com
11. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that (i) you have been retained solely to provide the services set forth herein, and in rendering such services you are acting, in your capacity as JPMS, solely in the capacity of an arm's length contractual counterparty to the Company and not as a financial advisor or fiduciary to, or agent of, the Company or any of its affiliates; (ii) you may perform the services contemplated hereby in conjunction with your affiliates, and any of your affiliates performing services hereunder shall be entitled to the benefits and be subject to the terms of this Agreement; (iii) you are a securities firm engaged in securities trading and brokerage activities and providing investment banking and financial advisory services, and in the ordinary course of business, you and your affiliates may at any time hold long or short positions, and may trade or otherwise effect transactions, for your own respective accounts or the accounts of customers, in debt or equity securities of the Company or its affiliates; and (iv) you are not an advisor as to legal, tax, accounting or regulatory matters in any jurisdiction, and the Company must consult with its own advisors concerning such matters and will be responsible for making its own independent investigation and appraisal of the transactions contemplated hereby, and you shall have no responsibility or liability to the Company with respect thereto. Any review of the Company, any of its affiliates, any of the transactions contemplated hereby or any other matters relating to such transactions that is performed by JPMS or any of its affiliates will be performed solely for the benefit of JPMS, its affiliates and its agents and shall not be on behalf of, or for the benefit of, the Company, any of its affiliates or any other person.
No Fiduciary Relationship
 
 
 
 
13. . Except as set forth below, no Claim may be commenced, prosecuted or continued by the Company in any court other than the courts of the State of New York located in the City and County of New York or in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, which courts shall have nonexclusive jurisdiction over the adjudication of such matters, and the Company consents to the jurisdiction of such courts and personal service with respect thereto. The Company irrevocably waives the defense of an inconvenient forum or objections to personal jurisdiction with respect to the maintenance of such legal suit, action or proceeding. Each of JPMS and the Company, on its behalf and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on behalf of its stockholders and affiliates, waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding, claim or counterclaim, whether based upon contract, tort or otherwise, in any way arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any Terms Agreement or the performance of services hereunder. The Company agrees that a final and non-appealable judgment in any such action, proceeding or counterclaim brought in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company and may be enforced in any other courts in the jurisdiction of which the Company is or may be subject, by suit upon such judgment.
Submission to Jurisdiction, etc
14. . The agreements set forth herein and in any Terms Agreement have been and are made solely for the benefit of JPMS and the Company and, to the extent provided in Section 9 hereof, the controlling persons, directors and officers referred to in such section, and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, personal representatives and executors and administrators. No other person, partnership, association or corporation (including a purchaser, as such purchaser, from JPMS) shall acquire or have any right under or by virtue of this Agreement or any Terms Agreement.
Parties in Interest
15. . This Agreement and any Terms Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
16. . This Agreement shall be binding upon JPMS, the Company, any other Indemnified Person and their respective successors and assigns and any successor or assign of any substantial portion of the Company's and JPMS's respective businesses and/or assets.
Successors and Assigns
17. . The respective indemnities, rights of contribution, representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and JPMS contained in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of the Company or JPMS pursuant to this Agreement or any certificate delivered pursuant hereto shall survive the delivery of and payment for the Shares and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of the Company or JPMS.
Survival
18. . For purposes of this Agreement, (a) except where otherwise expressly provided, the terms "affiliate" and "significant subsidiary" have the meanings ascribed thereto in Rule 405 under the Securities Act and (b) the term "business day" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City.
Certain Defined Terms
 
19. . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
Amendments or Waivers
20. . JPMS, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase & Co., is not a bank and is separate from any affiliated bank, including any U.S. branch or agency of JPMorgan Chase Bank. Because JPMS is a separately incorporated entity, it is solely responsible for its own contractual obligations and commitments, including obligations with respect to sales and purchases of securities. Securities sold, offered or recommended by JPMS are not deposits, are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, are not guaranteed by a branch or agency of JPMorgan Chase Bank and are not otherwise an obligation or responsibility of a branch or agency of JPMorgan Chase Bank.
Affiliates
A lending affiliate of JPMS may have lending relationships with issuers of securities underwritten or privately placed by JPMS. To the extent required under the securities laws, prospectuses and other disclosure documents for securities underwritten or privately placed by JPMS will disclose the existence of any such lending relationships and whether the proceeds of the issue will be used to repay debts owed to affiliates of JPMS.
JPMS and one or more of its affiliates may make markets in the Common Stock or other securities of the Company, in connection with which they may buy and sell, as agent or principal, for long or short account, shares of the Common Stock or other securities of the Company, at the same time that JPMS is acting as agent pursuant to this Agreement; that JPMS acknowledges and agrees that any such transactions are not being, and shall not be deemed to have been, undertaken at the request or direction of, or for the account of, the Company, and that the Company has and shall have no control over any decision by JPMS and its affiliates to enter into any such transactions.
provided
 
If the foregoing correctly sets forth the understanding among the Company and JPMS, please so indicate in the space provided below for the purpose, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall constitute a binding agreement between the Company and JPMS.
 
Accepted as of the date first above written:
 

Exhibit 5.1
E*TRADE Financial Corporation
135 East 57th Street
New York, NY 10022
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel for E*TRADE Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), in connection with the (i) Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-158636) (the "") filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 and (ii) the Prospectus Supplement, dated May 8, 2009 (the ""), of the Company, filed with the Commission relating to the issuance and sale by the Company of shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share, having an aggregate offering price of up to $150,000,000 (the "") in accordance with that certain distribution agreement, dated as of May 8, 2009 (the ""), between the Company and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as agent ("").
Company
Registration Statement
Commission
Prospectus Supplement
Shares
Distribution Agreement
J.P. Morgan
We, as your counsel, have examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such documents, corporate records, certificates of public officials and other instruments as we have deemed necessary or advisable for the purpose of rendering this opinion. As to all questions of fact material to this opinion that have not been independently established, we have relied upon certificates or comparable documents of officers and representatives of the Company.
Based upon the foregoing, and assuming the terms of any sale of Shares pursuant to the Distribution Agreement are approved by either Mr. Donald H. Layton or Mr. Robert Druskin in his capacity as a pricing committee of the Finance and Risk Oversight Committee of the Company's Board of Directors, we are of the opinion that the Shares to be sold by the Company will be duly authorized and, when issued and delivered by the Company and paid for pursuant to the Distribution Agreement, will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, and the issuance of such Shares is not subject to any statutory preemptive rights.
 
We are members of the Bars of the States of New York and California and the foregoing opinion is limited to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as Exhibit 5.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 8, 2009 and to the incorporation by reference of this opinion in the Registration Statement, and to the reference to our firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement. In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission.
This opinion is rendered solely to you in connection with the above matter. This opinion may not be relied upon by you for any other purpose or relied upon by or furnished to any other person without our prior written consent.
 


