FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20090428163051.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): April 28, 2009
E*TRADE Financial Corporation
(Exact name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
(646) 521-4300
(
Registrants Telephone Number, including Area Code)
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On April 28, 2009, the Company announced its first quarter earnings for fiscal year 2009. A copy of the Companys press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
The information furnished shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or incorporated by reference into any filing thereunder or under the Securities Act of 1933 unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation Announces First Quarter 2009 Results
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 28, 2009--E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC)
First Quarter Results
Total Net Revenue of $497 million
Provision for Loan Losses of $454 million
Net Loss of $233 million, or $0.41 per share
Total Daily Average Revenue Trades (DARTs) of 194,000
Record brokerage accounts of 2.7 million, with net new brokerage accounts of 63,000
Record customer accounts of 4.5 million, with net new accounts of 56,000
Total customer cash and deposits of $34.4 billion
Total net new customer assets of $3.5 billion
Capital and Liquidity Metrics
Bank Tier-1 and risk-based capital ratios of 5.63%and 11.85%, respectively
Bank excess risk-based capital (excess to the regulatory well-capitalized threshold) of
$451 million
Corporate cash of $406 million; Bank cash of $3.9 billion; unused FHLB lines of $10.0 billion
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC) today announced results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2009, reporting a net loss of $233 million, or $0.41 per share, compared with a net loss of $276 million, or $0.50 per share, in the prior quarter and a net loss of $91 million, or $0.20 per share, a year ago.
The Company reported total DARTs of 194,000 in the first quarter, an eight percent year-over-year increase, although a 10 percent decrease from the record levels of the prior quarter. The Company added 63,000 net new brokerage accounts during the period. At quarter end, E*TRADE reported a record 4.5 million customer accounts, which included a record 2.7 million brokerage accounts. Customer net new assets were $3.5 billion during the quarter. Total customer cash and deposits increased $2.1 billion, in part due to the continued growth of the Complete Savings Account despite a 1.56 percentage point drop in annual percentage yield during the quarter. Margin receivables declined from $2.8 to $2.4 billion.
E*TRADEs growth in net new brokerage accounts and customer assets was the result of a renewed focus on our core investor base, strong activity by existing customers across a full range of products, and a gain in market share versus traditional brokerage firms, said Donald H. Layton, Chairman and CEO, E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. Transaction volumes were also strong in the first quarter on continued volatility and late-quarter rising markets.
Commissions, fees and service charges, principal transactions, and other revenue for the first quarter were $202 million, which compared with $224 million in the fourth quarter. This reflects lower revenue from the decline in DARTs from last quarters record levels, fewer trading days in the quarter and lower revenue from principal transactions, partially offset by an increase in average commission per trade.
The Company reported net interest income of $279 million, an increase from $274 million in the fourth quarter, as a result of maintaining the level of interest earning assets and a slight increase in the interest income spread to 234 basis points. Total operating expense declined by $27 million to $294 million from the prior quarter and declined by $60 million year over year.
The Company continued to make progress during the first quarter in reducing balance sheet risk, shrinking its bank loan portfolio by approximately $1 billion from last quarter, of which approximately $700 million was related to prepayment or scheduled principal reductions.
In the home equity portfolio, which represents the Companys greatest exposure to loan losses, special mention delinquencies (30-89 days) decreased 25 percent in the quarter, while at risk delinquencies (30-179 days) declined five percent. Total special mention delinquencies for the Companys loan portfolio, which also includes one- to four-family and consumer and other loans, declined by 10 percent in the quarter.
We continue to believe that E*TRADEs loan portfolio is further advanced in the credit cycle than the broader industry, said Mr. Layton. Our home equity portfolio is showing signs of improving performance, with declines in special mention delinquencies in each month of the quarter; however, continued deterioration in the one- to four-family and consumer and other portfolios necessitated further reserve building this quarter.
First quarter provision for loan losses decreased $59 million from the prior quarter to $454 million. Total allowance for loan losses increased $120 million to $1.2 billion, or five percent of gross loans receivable, as the Company increased its one- to four-family and consumer and other portfolio reserves. Total net charge-offs in the quarter were $334 million, an increase of $27 million from the prior quarter.
The Company reported Bank Tier-1 and risk-based capital ratios of 5.63 percent and 11.85 percent, respectively. The Bank had excess Tier-1 capital of $288 million and excess risk-based capital ( above the level regulations define as well-capitalized) of $451 million as of March 31, 2009. The Company noted that subsequent to the end of the quarter, it injected an additional $150 million of capital into the Bank.
i.e.,
Given the uncertainties of the current environment, we believe that it is necessary to further improve the Companys capital position, said Mr. Layton. We have been increasing our efforts to reduce the size of the Banks balance sheet and the associated risk, to deleverage the Parent companys capital structure, and also to generate additional capital to inject into the Bank. The Company noted that such efforts would involve public market issuance and/or private investors and would create significant dilution to current shareholders; deleveraging of the Parent would also substantially reduce its interest expense.
The Company also noted that its primary banking regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, has advised the Company to address these capital requirements in the near term, including both raising new capital for E*TRADE Bank and reducing the leverage of the Parent holding company. One alternative that the Company continues to pursue is the U.S. Treasurys TARP Capital Purchase Program which, if it is made available, would likely have additional conditions that would also produce significant dilution. The Company can not predict when or if its application will be acted upon.
Historical monthly metrics from January 2006 to March 2009 can be found on the E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations site at .
https://investor.etrade.com
The Company will host a conference call to discuss the results beginning at 5:00 p.m. EDT today. This conference call will be available to domestic participants by dialing 800-683-1525 and 973-872-3197 for international participants. The conference ID number is 93649598. A live audio webcast and replay of this conference call will also be available at .
https://investor.etrade.com
About E*TRADE FINANCIAL
The E*TRADE FINANCIAL family of companies provides financial services including trading, investing and related banking products and services to retail investors. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member FINRA/SIPC). Bank products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
Important Notice
E*TRADE FINANCIAL, E*TRADE and the E*TRADE logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. The statements contained in this news release that are forward-looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, changes in market activity, anticipated increases in the rate of new customer acquisition, the conversion of new visitors to the site to customers, the activity of customers and assets held at the institution, seasonality, macro trends of the economy in general and the residential real estate market, instability in the consumer credit markets and credit trends, rising mortgage interest rates, tighter mortgage lending guidelines across the industry, increased mortgage loan delinquency and default rates, portfolio growth, portfolio seasoning and resolution through collections, sales or charge-offs, the development and enhancement of products and services, competitive pressures (including price competition), system failures, economic and political conditions, including changes to the U.S. Treasurys Troubled Asset Relief Program, changes in consumer behavior and the introduction of competing products having technological and/or other advantages. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the information included in the annual reports previously filed by E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation with the SEC on Form 10-K (including information under the caption Risk Factors) and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any forward-looking statement included in this release speaks only as of the date of this communication; the Company disclaims any obligation to update any information.
 2009 E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation. All rights reserved.
Financial Statements
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures and Certain Metrics
Management believes that EBITDA, interest coverage, enterprise net interest income and enterprise interest-earning assets are appropriate measures for evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company. Management believes that the elimination of certain items from the related GAAP measures is helpful to investors and analysts who may wish to use some or all of this information to analyze our current performance, prospects and valuation. Management uses non-GAAP information internally to evaluate our operating performance and in formulating our budget for future periods.
Reporting Changes
Beginning in the first quarter of 2009, the Company revised its segment financial reporting to reflect the manner in which its chief operating decision maker had begun assessing the Companys performance and making resource allocation decisions. As a result, the Company now reports its operating results in two segments: 1) Trading and Investing, which includes the businesses that were formerly in the Retail segment and now includes the Companys market-making business, and 2) Balance Sheet Management, which includes the businesses from the former Institutional segment, other than the market-making business.
Corporate Cash
Corporate cash represents cash held at the parent company. The Company believes that corporate cash is a useful measure of the parent companys liquidity as it is the primary source of capital above and beyond the capital deployed in our regulated subsidiaries.
EBITDA
EBITDA represents net income (loss) from continuing operations before taxes, depreciation and amortization and corporate interest expense. Management believes that EBITDA provides a useful additional measure of our performance by excluding certain non-cash charges and expenses that are not directly related to the performance of our business.
Interest Coverage
Interest coverage represents EBITDA divided by corporate interest expense. Management believes that by excluding the charges and expenses that are excluded from EBITDA, interest coverage provides a useful additional measure of our ability to continue to meet our interest obligations and our liquidity.
Bank Earnings Before Taxes and Before Credit Losses
Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses represents the pre-tax earnings of E*TRADE Bank Holding Company ("ETBH" or Bank) before discontinued operations, loss on securities, net and provision for loan losses. This metric shows the amount of earnings that the Bank, after accruing for the interest expense on its trust preferred securities, generates each quarter prior to credit related losses, primarily provision and loss on securities. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is an indicator of the level of credit related losses the Bank can absorb without causing a decline in E*TRADE Banks excess risk-based capital.
Enterprise Net Interest Income
Enterprise net interest income is taxable equivalent basis net operating interest income excluding corporate interest income, corporate interest expense and interest earned on customer cash held by third parties. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is a measure of the net operating interest income generated by our core operations.
Enterprise Interest-Earning Assets
Enterprise interest-earning assets consists of the primary interest-earning assets of the Company and includes: loans receivable, mortgage-backed and available-for-sale securities, margin receivables, stock borrow balances and cash that earns interest for the Company. Management believes that this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is a measure of the primary assets from which the Company generates net operating interest income.
It is important to note these metrics and other non-GAAP measures may involve judgment by management and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net income (loss), consolidated statements of cash flows, or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. For complete information on the items excluded from these non-GAAP measures, please see our financial statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition that will be included in the periodic report the Company expects to file with the SEC with respect to the financial periods discussed herein.
ENDNOTES
(1) Because the Company reported a net loss for the periods presented, the calculation of diluted net loss per share does not include common stock equivalents as they are anti-dilutive and would result in a reduction of net loss per share.
(2) Reflects elimination of transactions between Trading and Investing and Balance Sheet Management segments, which includes deposit and intercompany transfer pricing arrangements.
(3) Amounts and percentages may not calculate due to rounding.
(4) Operating margin is the percentage of net revenue that results in income (loss) before other income (expense), income taxes and discontinued operations. The percentage is calculated by dividing income (loss) before other income (expense), income taxes and discontinued operations by total net revenue.
(5) Corporate cash is an indicator of the liquidity at the parent company. Corporate cash for March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 includes $30.0 million and $45.3 million, respectively, which we invested in The Primary Fund and is included as a receivable in the other assets line item as The Reserve Fund has not indicated when the funds will be distributed back to investors.
(6) Enterprise net interest spread is the taxable equivalent rate earned on average enterprise interest-earning assets less the rate paid on average enterprise interest-bearing liabilities, excluding corporate interest-earning assets and liabilities and customer cash held by third parties.
(7) Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses represents the pre-tax earnings of E*TRADE Bank Holding Company (ETBH or Bank) before discontinued operations, loss on securities, net and provision for loan losses. This metric shows the amount of earnings that the Bank, after accruing for the interest expense on its trust preferred securities, generates each quarter prior to credit related losses, primarily provision and loss on securities. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is an indicator of the level of credit related losses the Bank can absorb without causing a decline in E*TRADE Banks excess risk-based capital. Below is a reconciliation of Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses from Loss before income taxes and discontinued operations:
(a)
Excess risk-based capital is the excess capital that E*TRADE Bank has compared to the regulatory minimum well-capitalized threshold.
(a)
Non-bank loss represents all of the Companys subsidiaries including Corporate and Brokerage, but excluding the Bank.
(b)
(Gain) loss on securities, net is included in the Gain (loss) on loans and securities, net line item on the consolidated statement of loss.
(c)
(8) During the first quarter of 2009, we updated the definition of an active Complete Savings Account. Prior to this update, all Complete Savings Accounts were considered an active account including those accounts with a nominal positive balance. Subsequent to this change, only Complete Savings Accounts with a balance of $25 or more are considered an active account. We believe this change improves the usefulness of our Complete Savings Account metric as it is now more consistent with our definition of an active brokerage account. The impact of this change is summarized in the table below. All prior periods presented have been updated to reflect this change.
(9) During the first quarter of 2009, we updated the definition of an active customer to exclude customers that only have a Complete Savings Account with a balance of less than $25. Net new customers from discontinued operations and other consists of customers related to our discontinued operations and the impact of an improvement in our customer identification methodology implemented during the second quarter of 2008. All prior periods presented have been updated to reflect this change.
(10) Excludes customer payables (cash) from discontinued operations.
(11) Net new customer assets are total inflows to all new and existing customer accounts less total outflows from all closed and existing customer accounts.
(12) Q109 estimate based on the regulatory minimum well-capitalized threshold.
(13) Includes unpaid principal balances and premiums (discounts).
(14) Excludes loans to customers on margin.
(15) Includes segregated cash balances.
(16) Gross-up for tax-exempt securities.
(17) Includes interest earned on average customer assets of $2.8 billion, $3.0 billion and $3.3 billion for the quarters ended March 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2008, respectively, held by parties outside E*TRADE FINANCIAL, including third party money market funds and sweep deposit accounts at unaffiliated financial institutions.
(18) LTV/CLTV data is based on LTV/CLTV ratios at the time of loan origination, and has not been updated to reflect changes in property values since that time. CLTV calculations for home equity lines of credit are based on drawn balances. FICO score is based on FICO scores at the time of loan origination, and has not been updated to reflect changes in credit scores since that time.
CONTACT: Pam Erickson, 617-296-6080 or Brett Goodman, 646-521-4406
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Media Relations Contact
pam.erickson@etrade.com
E*TRADE FINANCIAL Investor Relations Contact
brett.goodman@etrade.com


