FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20100421163104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): April 21, 2010
E*TRADE Financial Corporation
(Exact name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
(646) 521-4300
(
Registrants Telephone Number, including Area Code)
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02.     RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On April 21, 2010, the Company announced its first quarter earnings for fiscal year 2010. A copy of the Companys press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
As of March 31, 2010, a cumulative total of $781.7 million of the Companys convertible debentures have been converted which results in approximately 2.0 billion of common shares outstanding. The remaining face value of convertible debt as of March 31, 2010 is approximately $1.0 billion, which can be converted into approximately 929 million shares of common stock.
The information furnished shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or incorporated by reference into any filing thereunder or under the Securities Act of 1933 unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d)            Exhibits
                     99.1    Earnings Press Release, dated April 21, 2010
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
E*TRADE Financial Corporation Announces First Quarter 2010 Results
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 21, 2010--E*TRADE FINANCIAL Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC)
First Quarter Results
Net loss of $48 million, or $0.02 per share, improved from $0.04 loss in prior quarter and $0.41 loss in first quarter 2009
Total net revenue of $537 million, up from $523 million in prior quarter and $497 million in first quarter 2009
Provision for loan losses of $268 million, down from $292 million in prior quarter and $454 million in first quarter 2009
Daily Average Revenue Trades (DARTs) from U.S. operations of 155,000, down two percent from prior quarter and 11 percent from first quarter 2009
Net new brokerage assets of $2.2 billion, up from $1.5 billion in prior quarter and down from $2.3 billion in first quarter 2009
Capital and Liquidity Metrics
Bank Tier 1 capital ratios of 6.83% to total adjusted assetsand 13.08% to risk-weighted assets
Excess risk-based total capital (excess to the regulatory well-capitalized threshold) of
$947 million
Bank generated $45 million of Tier 1 capital and $48 million of risk-based capital
Corporate cash of $418 million
E*TRADE Financial Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC) today announced results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2010, reporting a net loss of $48 million, or $0.02 per share, compared with a net loss of $67 million, or $0.04 per share, in the prior quarter and a net loss of $233 million, or $0.41 per share, a year ago. The Company reported total net revenue of $537 million for the first quarter, compared with $523 million in the prior quarter and $497 million in the year ago period.
E*TRADEs first quarter results show improving trends and reflect continued progress toward our goal of returning to profitability, said Steven Freiberg, CEO of E*TRADE Financial Corporation. Our online brokerage business performed well during a period of decreased market volatility, delivering growth in customer assets, accounts, and margin receivables. At the same time, improving loan performance trends supported a continued decline in the provision expense while, for the first time since early 2008, the Bank internally generated, rather than used, risk-based capital. Freiberg continued, I am pleased to be joining the organization at a pivotal time and look forward to building on our momentum and progress as we continue to deliver increased value, innovation, and ease-of-use to customers.
E*TRADE reported DARTs from U.S. operations of 155,000 during the quarter, a two percent decrease from the prior quarter and an 11 percent decrease versus the same quarter a year ago. At quarter end, the Company reported 4.3 million customer accounts, which included 2.6 million brokerage accounts. Brokerage accounts increased by 2,000 in the quarter.
Total customer assets increased to $162 billion, from $153 billion in the prior quarter and $110 billion in the prior year.
During the quarter, net new brokerage assets were positive $2.2 billion, reflecting the Companys strategic focus on growing its online brokerage business. Customer security holdings increased seven percent, or $7.3 billion, and brokerage-related cash increased by $1.4 billion to $21.8 billion. Customers were net buyers of approximately $600 million of securities. Margin receivables increased from $3.8 billion to $4.0 billion.
Net new customer assets were positive $0.5 billion and were impacted by a $1.8 billion decline in savings and other bank-related customer deposits, including the sale of $1 billion of predominantly non-brokerage related savings accounts to Discover Financial Services, as the Company continued to execute its balance sheet reduction strategy.
Total net revenue of $537 million increased $13 million from the prior quarter and $39 million versus the year ago period.
Net operating interest income was essentially flat from the prior quarter at $320 million, as a $1.4 billion sequential decline in average interest-earning assets to $42.4 billion was offset by a 10 basis point expansion in the net interest income spread.
Commissions, fees and service charges, principal transactions, and other revenue in the first quarter were $196 million, compared with $205 million in the fourth quarter. This reflected the sequential decline in trading activity and a $0.10 decline in the average commission per trade.
Total net revenue this quarter also included $29 million of gains on loans and securities, net, offset partially by a net impairment of $9 million.
Total operating expense decreased by $23 million to $295 million from the prior quarter, including lower compensation and restructuring costs.
The Company continued to make progress during the first quarter in reducing balance sheet risk as its loan portfolio contracted by $1.0 billion from the prior quarter, of which $0.7 billion was due to prepayments or scheduled principal reductions.
First quarter provision for loan losses decreased $24 million from the prior quarter to $268 million. Net charge-offs in the quarter were $288 million, a decrease of $36 million from the prior quarter. The allowance for loan losses declined by $20 million to $1.2 billion, or six percent of gross loans receivable, at quarter end.
For the Companys entire loan portfolio, special mention delinquencies (30-89 days) declined by four percent and at-risk delinquencies (30-179 days) declined by eight percent in the quarter.
During the quarter, the Bank generated $45 million of Tier 1 capital and $48 million of risk-based capital. As of March 31, 2010 the Company reported Bank Tier 1 capital ratios of 6.83 percent to total adjusted assets and 13.08 percent to risk-weighted assets. The Bank had excess risk-based total capital (, above the level regulators define as well-capitalized) of $947 million at quarter end.
i.e.
Historical metrics and financials through March 2010 can be found on the E*TRADE Financial Investor Relations website at .
https://investor.etrade.com
The Company will host a conference call to discuss the results beginning at 5:00 p.m. EDT today. This conference call will be available to domestic participants by dialing 800-683-1525 and 973-872-3197 for international participants. The conference ID number is 66187519. A live audio webcast and replay of this conference call will also be available at .
https://investor.etrade.com
About E*TRADE Financial
The E*TRADE Financial family of companies provides financial services including online brokerage and related banking products and services to retail investors. Specific business segments include Trading and Investing, and Balance Sheet Management. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member FINRA/SIPC). Bank products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries. ETFC-E
Important Notices
E*TRADE Financial, E*TRADE and the E*TRADE logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of E*TRADE Financial Corporation.
The statements contained in this news release that are forward looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. Such statements include those relating to the ability of the Company to achieve profitability. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, potential changes in market activity, anticipated changes in the rate of new customer acquisition, macro trends of the economy in general and the residential real estate market, instability in the consumer credit markets and credit trends, increased mortgage loan delinquency and default rates, portfolio growth, portfolio seasoning and resolution through collections, sales or charge-offs and the potential negative regulatory consequences resulting from actions by the Office of Thrift Supervision or other regulators. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the annual, quarterly and current reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and Form 8-K previously filed by E*TRADE Financial Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) (including information in these reports under the caption Risk Factors). Any forward-looking statement included in this release speaks only as of the date of this communication; the Company disclaims any obligation to update any information.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 2010 E*TRADE Financial Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures and Certain Metrics
Management believes that corporate cash, EBITDA, interest coverage, Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses, enterprise net interest income and enterprise interest-earning assets are appropriate measures for evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company. Management believes that adjusting GAAP measures by excluding or including certain items is helpful to investors and analysts who may wish to use some or all of this information to analyze our current performance, prospects and valuation. Management uses non-GAAP information internally to evaluate our operating performance and in formulating our budget for future periods.
Reporting Changes
In the first quarter of 2010, the Company revised its segment financial reporting to reflect the manner in which its chief operating decision maker had begun assessing the Companys performance and making resource allocation decisions. The Company no longer allocates costs associated with certain functions that are centrally managed to its operating segments. These costs are separately reported in a Corporate/Other category.
In addition, the Company now reports FDIC insurance premiums expense in its balance sheet management segment. These expenses were previously reported in its trading and investing segment. Balance sheet management pays the trading and investing segment for the use of its deposits via the deposit transfer pricing arrangement, including a reimbursement of the cost associated with FDIC insurance. This change did not impact the income (loss) before income taxes of either segment as the component of the deposit transfer pricing payment for FDIC insurance premiums expense was removed.
Corporate Cash
Corporate cash represents cash held at the parent company. The Company believes that corporate cash is a useful measure of the parent companys liquidity as it is the primary source of capital above and beyond the capital deployed in our regulated subsidiaries.
EBITDA
EBITDA represents net income (loss) before taxes, depreciation and amortization and corporate interest expense. Management believes that EBITDA provides a useful additional measure of our performance by excluding certain non-cash charges and expenses that are not directly related to the performance of our business.
Interest Coverage
Interest coverage represents EBITDA divided by corporate interest expense. Management believes that by excluding the charges and expenses that are excluded from EBITDA, interest coverage provides a useful additional measure of our ability to continue to meet our interest obligations and our liquidity.
Bank Earnings Before Taxes and Before Credit Losses
Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses represents the pre-tax earnings of E*TRADE Bank Holding Company (Bank), provision for loan losses, gains (losses) on loans and securities, net, net impairment and losses on early extinguishment of FHLB advances. See endnote (7) for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the comparable GAAP measure.
This metric shows the amount of earnings that the Bank, after accruing for the interest expense on its trust preferred securities, generates each quarter prior to credit related losses, primarily provision and losses on securities. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is an indicator of the level of credit related losses the Bank can absorb without causing a decline in E*TRADE Banks excess risk-based capital.
Enterprise Net Interest Income
Enterprise net interest income is taxable equivalent basis net operating interest income excluding corporate interest income, corporate interest expense and interest earned on customer cash held by third parties. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is a measure of the net operating interest income generated by our core operations.
Enterprise Interest-Earning Assets
Enterprise interest-earning assets consists of the primary interest-earning assets of the Company and includes: loans receivable, mortgage-backed and available-for-sale securities, margin receivables, stock borrow balances and cash that earns interest for the Company. Management believes that this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is a measure of the primary assets from which the Company generates net operating interest income.
It is important to note these metrics and other non-GAAP measures may involve judgment by management and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net income (loss), consolidated statements of cash flows, or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. For additional information on the adjustments to these non-GAAP measures, please see our financial statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition that will be included in the periodic report the Company expects to file with the SEC with respect to the financial periods discussed herein.
ENDNOTES
(1) Because the Company reported a net loss for the periods presented, the calculation of diluted net loss per share does not include common stock equivalents as they are anti-dilutive and would result in a reduction of net loss per share.
(2) Reflects elimination of transactions between Trading and Investing and Balance Sheet Management segments, which includes deposit and intercompany transfer pricing arrangements.
(3) Amounts and percentages may not calculate due to rounding.
(4) Operating margin is the percentage of net revenue that results in income (loss) before other income (expense) and income taxes. The percentage is calculated by dividing income (loss) before other income (expense) and income taxes by total net revenue.
(5) Corporate cash is an indicator of the liquidity at the parent company. Corporate cash for December 31, 2009 and March 31, 2009 included $15.2 million and $30.0 million, respectively, which was invested in The Primary Fund and included as a receivable in the other assets line item as The Reserve Fund had not indicated when the remaining funds would be distributed back to investors. We received the final distribution from The Primary Fund during Q110.
(6) Enterprise net interest spread is the taxable equivalent rate earned on average enterprise interest-earning assets less the rate paid on average enterprise interest-bearing liabilities, excluding corporate interest-earning assets and liabilities and customer cash held by third parties.
(7) Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses represents the pre-tax earnings of E*TRADE Bank Holding Company (Bank), provision for loan losses, gains (losses) on loans and securities, net, net impairment and losses on early extinguishment of FHLB advances. This metric shows the amount of earnings that the Bank, after accruing for the interest expense on its trust preferred securities, generates each quarter prior to credit related losses, primarily provision and loss on securities. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is an indicator of the level of credit related losses the Bank can absorb without causing a decline in E*TRADE Banks excess risk-based capital. Below is a reconciliation of Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses from loss before income taxes:
(a)
Excess risk-based capital is the excess capital that E*TRADE Bank has compared to the regulatory minimum well-capitalized threshold.
(a)
Non-bank loss represents all of the Companys subsidiaries, including Corporate, but excluding the Bank.
(b)
(8) U.S. DARTs are defined as transactions executed on the Companys domestic platforms.
(9) Net new customer assets are total inflows to all new and existing customer accounts less total outflows from all closed and existing customer accounts. The net new banking assets and net new brokerage assets metrics treat asset flows between E*TRADE entities in the same manner as unrelated third party accounts.
(10) Capital ratios are at the E*TRADE Bank level. The ratios and excess capital amounts are Q110 estimates based on the regulatory minimum well-capitalized threshold. Below is a reconciliation of beginning E*TRADE Bank excess risk-based capital to ending E*TRADE Bank excess risk-based capital for the quarterly periods presented:
The capital release from loan portfolio run-off includes the decrease in risk-based capital required for our one- to four-family, home equity and consumer loan portfolios.
(a)
Represents cash flows to and from the parent company.
(b)
Represents the capitalimpact related to changes in other risk-weighted assets.
(c)
(11) Includes unpaid principal balances and premiums (discounts).
(12) Excludes loans to customers on margin.
(13) Includes segregated cash balances.
(14) Gross-up for tax-exempt securities.
(15) Includes interest earned on average customer assets of $3.1 billion, $3.1 billion and $2.8 billion for the quarters ended March 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 and March 31, 2009, respectively, held by parties outside E*TRADE Financial, including third party money market funds and sweep deposit accounts at unaffiliated financial institutions.
CONTACT: Susan Hickey, 646-521-4675 or Brett Goodman, 646-521-4406
E*TRADE Financial Media Relations Contact
susan.hickey@etrade.com
E*TRADE Financial Investor Relations Contact
brett.goodman@etrade.com


