FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20100514060203.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Effective May 13, 2010, stockholders of E*TRADE Financial Corporation (the Company) approved amendments to the Companys 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2005 Plan), increasing the number of shares authorized under the 2005 Plan by 125 million shares, subject to adjustment to 12.5 million shares following the implementation of the 1-for-10 reverse stock split, and making certain other changes to the 2005 Plan as described in the Companys definitive proxy statement filed on April 12, 2010 with the SEC.
 
The amended 2005 Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.03.  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
Effective May 12, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Company approved Amended and Restated Bylaws.  The Amended and Restated Bylaws update the officer titles of the Company and incorporate amendments previously approved by the Board in May 2008 and June 2009.
 
The text of the Amended and Restated Bylaws is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.  
 
Item 5.07.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
At the Companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 13, 2010, stockholders considered and approved four proposals, each of which is described in more detail in the Companys definitive proxy statement filed on April 12, 2010 for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
The vote results detailed below represent the final results as certified by the Inspector of Elections:
 
Proposal 1
 
Election of four Class II directors for a term that will end at the Companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2013 and one Class I director for a term that will end at the Companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2011.
 
 
Proposal 2
 
Authorization for the Board of Directors to file an Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to effect a reverse stock split of the outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company, at a specified ratio of 1-for-10.
 
 
 
 
Proposal 3
 
Approval of changes to the Companys 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, including increasing share authorization by 125 million shares, subject to adjustment to 12.5 million shares following the implementation of the 1-for-10 reverse stock split.
 
 
Proposal 4
 
Ratification of the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for the Company for 2010
 
 
The Company press release related to the foregoing events is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 8.01  
Other Events.
 
The Company also reported that on May 11, 2010 in an action captioned Freudenberg v. E*TRADE Financial Corporation, et al., pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, the Court denied the initial motion to dismiss brought by the Company and the individual defendants.  The Company continues to believe that all the claims asserted in the lawsuit are without merit and will vigorously defend against them.
 
Item 9.01  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  .
Exhibits
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 3.1
 
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS
OF
E*TRADE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
(a Delaware corporation)
as of May 12, 2010
ARTICLE 1
S
TOCKHOLDERS
Section 1.01 All meetings of stockholders shall be held at such place within or without the State of Delaware and at such time, as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer or, if not so designated, at the registered office of the corporation.
. Time and Place of Meetings.
Section 1.02 The annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting shall be held each year beginning in the calendar year 1997 on such date and at such time as the Board of Directors determines. If this date shall fall upon a legal holiday at the place of the meeting, then such meeting shall be held on the next succeeding business day at the same hour. If no annual meeting is held in accordance with the foregoing provisions, the Board of Directors shall cause the meeting to be held as soon thereafter as convenient.
. Annual Meeting.
Section 1.03 Special meetings of stockholders may be called only in accordance with Article SIXTH of the Certificate of Incorporation as it may be amended from time to time (the ).
. Special Meetings.
Certificate of Incorporation
Section 1.04
. Notice of Meetings and Adjourned Meetings; Waivers of Notice.
(a) Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which shall state the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise provided by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (), such notice shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. Any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned to another time and to any other place at which a meeting of stockholders may be held under these Bylaws by the stockholders present or represented at the meeting and entitled to vote, although less than a quorum, or, if no stockholder is present, by any officer entitled to preside at or to act as Secretary of such meeting. When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place (whether or not a quorum is present), notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time, place, if any, thereof and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, are announced at the meeting at which
Delaware Law
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting, the corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
(b) A written waiver of any such notice signed by the person entitled thereto, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall be limited to the purposes stated in the notice.
Section 1.05 Except as otherwise provided by Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the holders of a majority of the shares of the capital stock of the corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
. Quorum.
Section 1.06 Each stockholder shall have one vote for each share of stock entitled to vote held of record by such stockholder and a proportionate vote for each fractional share so held, unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or Delaware Law. Each stockholder of record entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may vote in person or may authorize another person or persons to vote or act for him by written proxy executed by the stockholder or his authorized agent and delivered to the Secretary of the corporation. No such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from the date of its execution, unless the proxy expressly provides for a longer period.
. Voting and Proxies.
Section 1.07. Action At Meeting; Majority Voting; Director Resignation Policy; Contested Elections; Treasury Stock.
(a)
 
In all matters other than the election of directors, when a quorum is present at any meeting, the holders of a majority of the stock present or represented and entitled to vote on the subject matter (or if there are two or more classes of stock entitled to vote as separate classes, then in the case of each such class, the holders of a majority of the stock of that class present or represented and entitled to vote on the subject matter) shall decide any matter to be voted upon by the stockholders at such meeting, except when a different vote is required by express provision of Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
(b)
 
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation, to elect directors under specified circumstances and except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 1.07, each director shall be elected by the majority of the votes cast with respect to the directors election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present. For purposes of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section 1.07, a majority of votes cast means that the number of votes for a directors election must exceed 50% of the votes cast with respect to that directors election. Any vote against a directors election or withheld with respect to a directors
 
2
 
 
election will count as a vote cast; however, all abstentions and broker non-votes will be excluded from the calculation of votes cast with respect to that directors election.
(c)
 
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors shall establish procedures under which any director who is not elected by the majority of the votes cast with respect to the directors election in an election governed by paragraph (b) of this Section 1.07 shall offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors.
(d)
 
If, on the last day by which stockholders may submit notice to nominate a person for election as a director pursuant to Section 1.08(b) of this Article 1, the number of nominees for any election of directors exceeds the number of directors to be elected, each director shall be elected by the plurality of the votes cast with respect to the directors election.
(e)  
Any share of stock of the corporation held by the corporation shall have no voting
rights
Section 1.08
. Advance Notice of Stockholder Nominees and Stockholder Business.
(a) At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be: (A) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (B) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (C) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a stockholders notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business one hundred and twenty (120) days nor earlier than the close of business one hundred and fifty (150) days prior to the first anniversary of the proxy statement relating to the preceding years annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than thirty (30) days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous years proxy statement, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not earlier than the close of business one hundred and fifty (150) days prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to such annual meeting or, in the event public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is first made by the corporation fewer than seventy (70) days prior to the date of such annual meeting, the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation. A stockholders notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting: (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, and, beginning with the annual meeting held in 2005, the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the bylaws of the corporation, the language of the proposed amendment, (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the corporations books, of the stockholder and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the proposal is made proposing such business, (iii) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the
 
3
 
 
proposal is made, (iv) any material interest of the stockholder and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the proposal is made in such business, (v) beginning with the annual meeting held in 2005, a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business, (vi) beginning with the annual meeting held in 2005, a representation that the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends to deliver a proxy statement or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the corporations outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or otherwise solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal and (vii) any other information that is required to be provided by the stockholder pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ), in his or her capacity as a proponent to a stockholder proposal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in order to include information with respect to a stockholder proposal in the proxy statement and form of proxy for a stockholders meeting, stockholders must provide notice as required by the regulations promulgated under the 1934 Act. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this paragraph (a). The chairman of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (a), and, if he or she should so determine, such chairman shall so declare at the meeting that any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
1934 Act
(b) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this paragraph (b) shall be eligible for election as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the corporation may be made at a meeting of stockholders by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or by any stockholder of the corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this paragraph (b). Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice (as set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section 1.08) in writing to the Secretary of the corporation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 1.08. Such stockholders notice shall set forth (i) as to each person, if any, whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director: (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (B) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (C) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are beneficially owned by such person, (D) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nominations are to be made by the stockholder, and (E) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the 1934 Act (including without limitation such persons written consent to being named in the proxy statement, if any, as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected), and (ii) as to such stockholder giving notice, the information required to be provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 1.08. At the request of the Board of Directors, any person nominated by a stockholder for election as a director shall furnish to the Secretary of the corporation that information required to be set forth in the stockholders notice of nomination which pertains to the nominee. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this paragraph (b).
 
4
 
 
The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if he or she should so determine, such chairman shall so declare at the meeting, and the defective nomination shall be disregarded. At the request of the Board of Directors, any nominee also must submit a statement that, if elected, the director intends to tender, promptly following such persons election or reelection, an irrevocable resignation effective upon such persons failure to receive the required vote for reelection at the next meeting at which such person would face reelection and upon acceptance of such resignation by the Board of Directors, in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors for such purpose pursuant to Section 1.07(c) of this Article 1.
ARTICLE 2
D
IRECTORS
Section 2.01 The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors, who may exercise all of the powers of the corporation except as otherwise provided by Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
. General Powers.
Section 2.02 Subject to amendment in accordance with Article FIFTH of the Certificate of Incorporation , the number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors but shall not be less than six or more than twelve. The Directors shall be classified and their successors elected in accordance with Article SEVENTH of the Certificate of Incorporation. Subject to the requirement of the Certificate of Incorporation that the classes be as nearly equal in number as possible, the size of each class of Directors shall be as determined from time to time by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board of Directors. Any reduction in the size of any class of Directors shall not shorten the term of office of any incumbent Director. Directors need not be stockholders of the corporation.
. Number; Election; Tenure and Qualification.
Section 2.03 Unless and until filled by the stockholders, any vacancy in the Board of Directors, however occurring, including a vacancy resulting from an enlargement of the Board of Directors, may be filled by vote of a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director; provided, however, a vacancy created by the removal of a director by the vote of the stockholders or by court order may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares represented and voting at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present (which shares voting affirmatively also constitute a majority of the required quorum). Any director elected by the Board of Directors in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be presented for stockholder approval at the annual meeting next following such directors appointment to the Board of Directors and shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the new directorship was created or the vacancy occurred and until such directors successor shall have been elected and qualified, or until such directors earlier death, resignation or removal.
. Vacancies.
Section 2.04 Any director may resign by delivering his written resignation to the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary. Such resignation shall be
. Resignation.
 
5
 
 
effective upon receipt unless it is specified to be effective at some other time or upon the happening of some other event.
Section 2.05 Any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed, only as permitted by Delaware Law and Article SEVENTH of the Certificate of Incorporation.
. Removal.
Section 2.06 After the place and time of regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall have been determined and notice thereof shall have been once given to each director, regular meetings may be held without further notice. A regular meeting of the Board of Directors may be held without notice immediately after and at the same place as the annual meeting of stockholders.
. Regular Meetings.
Section 2.07 Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time and place, within or without the State of Delaware, designated in a call by the Chairman of the Board, Vice Chairman of the Board, two or more directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary on the written request of two directors.
. Special Meetings.
Section 2.08. . Notice of any special meeting of directors shall be given to each director by the Secretary, Assistant Secretary or by the officer or one of the directors calling the meeting. Notice shall be given to each director in person, by telephone, by facsimile transmission, by electronic mail or by telegram sent to his or her facsimile number, electronic mail address, or business or home address, as applicable at least 12 hours in advance of the meeting, or by written notice mailed to his or her business or home address at least 72 hours in advance of the meeting. A notice or waiver of notice of a meeting of the Board of Directors need not specify the purposes of the meeting.
Notice of Special Meetings
Section 2.09 Directors or any members of any committee designated by the directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
. Meetings by Telephone Conference Calls.
Section 2.10 Except as otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation, a majority of the total number of directors then authorized and serving pursuant to Section 2.02 and Board resolution shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the Board of Directors. In the event one or more of the directors shall be disqualified to vote at any meeting, then the required quorum shall be reduced by one for each such director so disqualified; provided, however, that in no case shall less than one-third (1/3) of the number then authorized pursuant to Section 2.02 and Board resolution constitute a quorum. In the absence of a quorum at any such meeting, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
. Quorum.
Section 2.11 At any meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum is present, the vote of a majority of those present shall be sufficient to take any action, unless a different vote is specified by Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
. Action at Meeting.
 
6
 
 
Section 2.12 Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent to the action in writing, and the written consents are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
. Action by Consent.
Section 2.13 The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members of the committee present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors and subject to Delaware Law, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation and may authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Each such committee shall keep minutes and make such reports as the Board of Directors may from time to time request. Except as the Board of Directors may otherwise determine, any committee may make rules for the conduct of its business, but unless otherwise provided by the directors or in such rules, its business shall be conducted as nearly as possible in the same manner as is provided in these Bylaws for the Board of Directors.
. Committees.
Section 2.14 Directors may be paid such compensation for their services and such reimbursement for expenses of attendance at meetings as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
. Compensation for Directors.
ARTICLE 3
O
FFICERS
Section 3.01 The officers of the corporation shall consist of a Chief Executive Officer, a Chief Financial Officer, a Secretary, and such other officers with such other titles as the Board of Directors shall determine, including a Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, and one or more Executive Vice Presidents and Assistant Secretaries. The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers as it may deem appropriate.
. Enumeration.
Section 3.02 The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Secretary shall be elected by the Board of Directors at its first meeting following the annual meeting of stockholders. Other officers may be appointed by the Board of Directors at such meeting or at any other meeting.
. Election.
Section 3.03 The Chief Executive Officer need not be a director. No officer need be a stockholder. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person, except that no one person shall hold the offices and perform the duties of Chief Executive Officer and Secretary.
. Qualification.
 
7
 
 
Section 3.04 Except as otherwise provided by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws, each officer shall hold office until his successor is elected and qualified, unless a different term is specified in the vote choosing or appointing him, or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.
. Tenure.
Section 3.05 Any officer may resign by delivering his written resignation to the corporation at its principal office or to the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary. Such resignation shall be effective upon receipt unless it is specified to be effective at some other time or upon the happening of some other event.
. Resignation and Removal.
The Board of Directors, or a committee duly authorized to do so, may remove any officer with or without cause. Except as the Board of Directors may otherwise determine, no officer who resigns or is removed shall have any right to any compensation as an officer for any period following his resignation or removal, or any right to damages on account of such removal, whether his compensation be by the month or by the year or otherwise, unless such compensation is expressly provided in a duly authorized written agreement with the corporation.
Section 3.06 The Board of Directors may fill any vacancy occurring in any office for any reason in such manner as the Board of Directors shall determine. Each such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term of his predecessor and until his successor is elected and qualified, or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.
. Vacancies.
Section 3.07. The Secretary shall have the duty, among other things, to record the proceedings of the meetings of stockholders and directors in a book kept for that purpose. The officers of the corporation shall have such powers and perform such duties incident to each of their respective offices and such other duties as may from time to time be conferred upon or assigned to them by the Board of Directors.
. Powers and Duties
Section 3.08 Officers of the corporation shall be entitled to such salaries, compensation or reimbursement as shall be fixed or allowed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
. Salaries.
ARTICLE 4
C S
APITAL
TOCK
Section 4.01 Every holder of stock of the corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate, in such form as may be prescribed by Delaware Law and by the Board of Directors, certifying the number and class of shares owned by him in the corporation. Each such certificate shall be signed by, or in the name of the corporation by, the Chairman or Vice Chairman, if any, of the Board of Directors, or the Chief Executive Officer, t or an Executive Vice President, and by the Chief Financial Officer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the corporation. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile.
. Certificates of Stock.
Each certificate for shares of stock which are subject to any restriction on transfer pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable securities laws or any agreement among any number of stockholders or among such holders and the corporation shall
 
 
8
 
 
have conspicuously noted on the face or back of the certificate either the full text of the restriction or a statement of the existence of such restriction.
Section 4.02 Subject to the restrictions, if any, stated or noted on the stock certificates, shares of stock may be transferred on the books of the corporation by the surrender to the corporation or its transfer agent of the certificate representing such shares properly endorsed or accompanied by a written assignment or power of attorney properly executed, and with such proof of authority or the authenticity of signature as the corporation or its transfer agent may reasonably require. Except as may be otherwise required by Delaware Law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws, the corporation shall be entitled to treat the record holder of stock as shown on its books as the owner of such stock for all purposes, including the payment of dividends and the right to vote with respect to such stock, regardless of any transfer, pledge or other disposition of such stock until the shares have been transferred on the books of the corporation in accordance with the requirements of these Bylaws.
. Transfers.
Section 4.03 The corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in place of any previously issued certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, upon such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors may prescribe, including the presentation of reasonable evidence of such loss, theft or destruction and the giving of such indemnity as the Board of Directors may require for the protection of the corporation or any transfer agent or registrar.
. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates.
Section 4.04 The Board of Directors may fix in advance a date as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or to express consent (or dissent) to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action. Such record date shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action to which such record date relates.
. Record Date.
If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be the close of business on the day before the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day before the day on which the meeting is held. The record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating to such purpose.
A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
ARTICLE 5
I
NDEMNIFICATION
The corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware Law, indemnify any director or officer which it shall have power to indemnify under Delaware Law against any expenses, liabilities or other matters referred to in or covered by Delaware Law. The
 
9
 
 
 
indemnification provided for in this Article: (i) shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those indemnified may be entitled under any bylaw, agreement or vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in their official capacities and as to action in another capacity while holding such office; (ii) shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer; and (iii) shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person. The corporations obligation to provide indemnification under this Article shall be offset to the extent of any other source of indemnification or any otherwise applicable insurance coverage under a policy maintained by the corporation or any other person.
Expenses incurred by a director of the corporation in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that he is or was a director of the corporation (or was serving at the corporations request as a director or officer of another corporation) shall be paid by the corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified by the corporation as authorized by Delaware Law.
To assure indemnification under this Article of all such persons who are determined by the corporation or otherwise to be or to have been fiduciaries of any employee benefit plan of the corporation which may exist from time to time, the provisions of this Article shall be interpreted as follows: an other enterprise shall be deemed to include such an employee benefit plan, including, without limitation, any plan of the corporation which is governed by the Act of Congress entitled Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time; the corporation shall be deemed to have requested a person to serve an employee benefit plan where the performance by such person of his duties to the corporation also imposes duties on, or otherwise involves services by, such person to the plan or participants or beneficiaries of the plan; excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan pursuant to such Act of Congress shall be deemed fines; and action taken or omitted by a person with respect to an employee benefit plan in the performance of such persons duties for a purpose reasonably believed by such person to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of the plan shall be deemed to be for a purpose which is not opposed to the best interests of the corporation.
The corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, provide indemnification and the advancement of expenses, to any agent of the corporation and to any person (other than directors and officers of the corporation, who shall be entitled to indemnification under the first paragraph of this Article 5) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, to the extent and to such effect as the Board of Directors shall determine to be appropriate and permitted by Delaware Law.
ARTICLE 6
G P
ENERAL
ROVISIONS
Section 6.01 Except as from time to time otherwise designated by the Board of Directors, the fiscal year of the corporation shall end on December 31.
. Fiscal Year.
 
10
 
 
Section 6.02 The corporate seal shall be in such form as shall be approved by the Board of Directors.
. Corporate Seal.
Section 6.03 The, Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, any Executive Vice President or the Secretary , shall have power to execute and deliver on behalf and in the name of the corporation any instrument requiring the signature of an officer of the corporation, except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, or where the execution and delivery of such an instrument shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors to some other officer or agent of the corporation.
. Execution of Instruments.
Section 6.04 Except as the directors may otherwise designate, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, any Executive Vice President, the Secretary may waive notice of, and act as, or appoint any person or persons to act as, proxy or attorney-in-fact for this corporation (with or without power of substitution) at, any meeting of stockholders or shareholders of any other corporation or organization (except this corporation), the securities of which may be held by this corporation.
. Voting of Securities.
ARTICLE 7
A
MENDMENTS
Section 7.01 Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed or new Bylaws may be adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum is present.
. By the Board of Directors.
Section 7.02 Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed or new Bylaws may be adopted by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of the shares of the capital stock of the corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at any regular meeting of stockholders, or at any special meeting of stockholders, provided notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new bylaws shall have been stated in the notice of such special meeting.
. By the Stockholders.
11

 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
E*TRADE Financial Corporation
2005 Equity Incentive Plan,
As Amended Through May 13, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i
 
 
 
 
 
ii
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iii
 
 
E*TRADE Financial Corporation
2005 Equity Incentive Plan, As Amended Through May 13, 2010
 
           
1.
E
STABLISHMENT
, P
URPOSE
A
ND
T
ERM
O
F
P
LAN
.
1.1
Establishment
. The E* TRADE Financial Corporation 2005 Equity
 
Incentive Plan (the 
Plan
) is hereby established effective as of May 26, 2005, the date of its approval by the stockholders of the Company (the 
Effective Date
).
1.2
Purpose
.
 
The purpose of the Plan is to advance the interests of the
 
Participating Company Group and its stockholders by providing an incentive to attract, retain and reward persons performing services for the Participating Company Group and by motivating such perso
ns to contribute to the growth and profitability of the Participating Company Group. The Plan seeks to achieve this purpose by providing for Awards in the form of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Stock Purchase Rights, Stock Bonuses, Restricted Stock U
n
its, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Deferred Compensation Awards, Nonemployee Director Awards, Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards.
1.3
Term of Plan
. The Plan shall continue in effect until its termination by
 
the Committee; provided, ho
wever, that all Awards shall be granted, if at all, within ten (10) years from the Effective Date.
           
2.
D
EFINITIONS
A
ND
C
ONSTRUCTION
.
2.1
Definitions
. Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have their
 
respective meanings set forth below:
(a) 
Aff
iliate
means (i) an entity, other than a Parent Corporation, that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediary entities, controls the Company or (ii) an entity, other than a Subsidiary Corporation, that is controlled by the Company directly, o
r indirectly through one or more intermediary entities. For this purpose, the term 
control
(including the term 
controlled by
) means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the
 
relevant entity, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; or shall have such other meaning assigned such term for the purposes of registration on Form S-8 under the Securities Act.
(b) 
Award
means any Option, Stock A
ppreciation Right, Stock Purchase Right, Stock Bonus, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Deferred Compensation Award, Nonemployee Director Award, Cash-Based Award or Other Stock-Based Award granted under the Plan.
(c) 
Award Agreement
means a written or electronic agreement between the Company and a Participant setting forth the terms, conditions and restrictions of the Award granted to the Participant.
1
 
 
(f) 
 
Cause
means, unless such term or an equivalent term is otherwise defined with respect to an Award by the Participant
s Award Agreement or by a written contract of employment or service, any of the following: (i) the Participant
s theft, dishonesty, willful misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty for personal profit, or falsification of any Participating Company documents o
r
records; (ii) the Participant
s material failure to abide by a Participating Company
s code of conduct or other policies (including, without limitation, policies relating to confidentiality and reasonable workplace conduct); (iii) the Participant
s unaut
h
orized use, misappropriation, destruction or diversion of any tangible or intangible asset or corporate opportunity of a Participating Company (including, without limitation, the Participant
s improper use or disclosure of a Participating Company
s confid
e
ntial or proprietary information); (iv) any intentional act by the Participant which has a material detrimental effect on a Participating Company
s reputation or business; (v) the Participant
s repeated failure or inability to perform any reasonable assig
n
ed duties after written notice from a Participating Company of, and a reasonable opportunity to cure, such failure or inability; (vi) any material breach by the Participant of any employment, service, non-disclosure, non-competition, non-solicitation or o
t
her similar agreement between the Participant and a Participating Company, which breach is not cured pursuant to the terms of such agreement; or (vii) the Participant
s conviction (including any plea of guilty or nolo contendere) of any criminal act invol
v
ing fraud, dishonesty, misappropriation or moral turpitude, or which impairs the Participant
s ability to perform his or her duties with a Participating Company.
(g) 
Change in Control
means, unless such term or an equivalent term is otherwise defined wi
th respect to an Award by the Participant
s Award Agreement or by a written contract of employment or service, the occurrence of any of the following:
(i) any 
person
(as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than (1)
a trustee or other fiduciary holding stock of the Company under an employee benefit plan of a Participating Company or (2) a corporation owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownersh
i
p of the stock of the Company, becomes the 
beneficial owner
(as defined in Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of stock of the Company representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of t
h
e Company
s then-outstanding voting stock; or
(ii) a change in the composition of the Board over a period of thirty six (36) consecutive months or less such that individuals who, at the beginning of such period, constitute the Board cease, by reason of on
e or more contested elections for Board membership, to constitute at least a majority of the Board, unless the election, or the nomination for election by the stockholders of the Company, of each new Director was approved by a vote of at least a majority
o
f the Directors then still in office who were Directors at the beginning of the period; or
2
 
(iii) an Ownership Change Event or series of related Ownership Change Events (collectively, a 
Transaction
) in which the stockholders of the Company immediately before the Transaction do not retain immediately after the Transaction direct or indirect beneficial ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the outstanding vo
t
ing securities of the Company or, in the case of an Ownership Change Event described in Section 2.1(ff)(iii), the entity to which the assets of the Company were transferred (the 
Transferee
), as the case may be; or
(iv) a liquidation or dissolution of
the Company.
For purposes of the preceding sentence, indirect beneficial ownership shall include, without limitation, an interest resulting from ownership of the voting securities of one or more corporations or other business entities which own the Compan
y or the Transferee, as the case may be, either directly or through one or more subsidiary corporations or other business entities. The Committee shall have the right to determine whether multiple sales or exchanges of the voting securities of the Company
 
or multiple Ownership Change Events are related, and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.
(h) 
 
Code
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any applicable regulations promulgated thereunder.
(i) 
Committee
means t
he Compensation Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee or other committee of the Board duly appointed to administer the Plan and having such powers as shall be specified by the Board. If no committee of the Board has been appointed t
o
administer the Plan, the Board shall exercise all of the powers of the Committee granted herein, and, in any event, the Board may in its discretion exercise any or all of such powers.
(j) 
Company
means E*TRADE Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation thereto.
(k) 
Consultant
means a person engaged to provide consulting or advisory services (other than as an Employee or a member of the Board) to a Participating
Company, provided that the identity of such person, the nature of such services or the entity to which such services are provided would not preclude the Company from offering or selling securities to such person pursuant to the Plan in reliance on registr
a
tion on a Form S-8 Registration Statement under the Securities Act.
(l) 
Covered Employee
means any Employee who is or may become a 
covered employee
as defined in Section 162(m), or any successor statute, and who is designated, either as an individual
Employee or a member of a class of Employees, by the Committee no later than (i) the date ninety (90) days after the beginning of the Performance Period, or (ii) the date on which twenty-five percent (25%) of the Performance Period has elapsed, as a 
Cove
r
ed Employee
under this Plan for such applicable Performance Period.
(m) 
 
Deferred Compensation Award
means an award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 11.
3
 
 
(p) 
 
Dividend Equivalent
means a credit, made at the discretion of the Committee or as o
therwise provided by the Plan, to the account of a Participant in an amount equal to the cash dividends paid on one share of Stock for each share of Stock represented by an Award held by such Participant.
(q) 
Employee
means any person treated as an employee (including an Officer or a member of the Board who is also treated as an employee) in the records of a Participating Company; provided, however, that neither service as a member of the Board nor payment of a direct
o
r
s fee shall be sufficient to constitute employment for purposes of the Plan. The Company shall determine in good faith and in the exercise of its discretion whether an individual has become or has ceased to be an Employee and the effective date of such
i
ndividual
s employment or termination of employment, as the case may be. For purposes of an individual
s rights, if any, under the terms of the Plan as of the time of the Company
s determination of whether or not the individual is an Employee, all such de
t
erminations by the Company shall be final, binding and conclusive as to such rights, if any, notwithstanding that the Company or any court of law or governmental agency subsequently makes a contrary determination as to such individual
s status as an Emplo
y
ee.
  
(r)
Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.
(s) 
Fair Market Value
means, as of any date, the value of a share of Stock or other property as determined by the Committee, in its discretion, or by the Company, in its discretion, if such determination is expressly allocated to the Company herein, subject to the following:
(i) Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, if, on such date, the Stock is listed on a national or regional securities exchange or market system, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be the average of the high and low sale prices of a
s
hare of Stock (or the mean of the closing bid and asked prices of a share of Stock if the Stock is so quoted instead) as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange or such other national or regional securities exchange or market system constituting the primary
 
market for the Stock, as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such other source as the Company deems reliable. If the relevant date does not fall on a day on which the Stock has traded on such securities exchange or market system, the date on which the
F
air Market Value shall be established shall be the last day on which the Stock was so traded prior to the relevant date, or such other appropriate day as shall be determined by the Committee, in its discretion.
(ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Comm
ittee may, in its discretion, determine the Fair Market Value on the basis of the opening, closing, high, low or average sale price of a share of Stock or the actual sale price of a share of Stock received by a Participant, on such date, the preceding tra
d
ing day or the next succeeding trading day or an average determined over a period of trading days. The Committee may vary its method of
4
 
determination of the Fair Market Value as provided in this Section for different purposes under the Plan.
(iii) If, on such date, the Stock is not listed on a national or regional securities exchange or market system, the Fair Market Value of a share of S
tock shall be as determined by the Committee in good faith without regard to any restriction other than a restriction which, by its terms, will never lapse.
 
(i)
(t) 
Full Value Award
means any Award settled in Stock, other than
 
an Option, (ii) a Stoc
k Appreciation Right, (iii) a Stock Purchase Right or an Other Stock-Based Award under which the Company will receive monetary consideration equal to the Fair Market Value of the shares subject to such Award, (iv) a Deferred Compensation Award which is an
 
elective cash compensation reduction award described in Section 11.1(a) or a stock issuance deferral award described in Section 11.1(b), or (v) an Other Stock-Based award based on appreciation in the Fair Market Value of the Stock.
forth in the Award Agreement) and which qualifies as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
(u) 
Incentive Stock Option
means an Option intended to be (as set
(v) 
Insider
means an Officer, Director or any other person
whose transactions in Stock are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
(w) 
Insider Trading Policy
means the written policy of the Company pertaining to the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition of the Company
s equity securities by Directors
, Officers, Employees or other service providers who may possess material, nonpublic information regarding the Company or its securities.
(x) 
Net-Exercise
means a procedure by which the Participant will be issued a number of shares of Stock determined i
n accordance with the following formula:
N   =    X(A-B)/A, where
N
the number of shares of Stock to be issued to the Participant upon exercise of the Option;
X
the total number of shares with respect to which the Participant has elected to exercise the Option;
A
the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Stock determined on the exercise date; and
B
the exercise price per share (as defined in the Participant
s
Award Agreement)
 
(y)
Nonemployee Director
means a Director who is not an
Employee.
(z) 
 
Nonemployee Director Award
means a Nonemployee Director Option or other Award granted to a Nonemployee Director pursuant to Section 12.
5
 
(aa) 
Nonemployee Director Option
means an Option granted to a Nonemployee Director pursuant to Section 12.
(bb) 
Nonstatutory Stock Option
means an Option not intended to be (as set forth in the Award Agreement) an incen
tive stock option within the meaning of
Section 422(b) of the Code.
(cc)   
Officer
means any person designated by the Board as an officer
of the Company.
(dd) 
 
Option
means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option granted pursuant to Section 6 or Section 12.
(ee) 
Other Stock-Based Award
means an Award denominated in shares of Stock and granted pursuant to Section 13.
(ff) 
Ownership Change Event
me
ans the occurrence of any of the following with respect to the Company: (i) the direct or indirect sale or exchange in a single or series of related transactions by the stockholders of the Company of more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting stock of th
e
Company; (ii) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is a party; or (iii) the sale, exchange, or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (other than a sale, exchange or transfer to one or more subsidiaries of the Company
)
.
(gg) 
Parent Corporation
means any present or future 
parent corporation
of the Company, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
(hh)   
Participant
means any eligible person who has been granted one
or more Awards.
(ii) 
Participating Company
means the Company or any Parent Corporation, Subsidiary Corporation or Affiliate.
(jj) 
Participating Company Group
means, at any point in time, all entities collectively which are then Participating Companies.
(kk)   
Performance Award
means an Award
of Performance Shares or
Performance Units.
(ll) 
Performance Award Formula
means, for any Performance Award, a formula or table established by the Committee pursuant to Section 10.3 which provides the basis for computing the value of a Performance Awa
rd at one or more threshold levels of attainment of the applicable Performance Goal(s) measured as of the end of the applicable Performance Period.
(mm) 
Performance-Based Compensation
means compensation under an Award that satisfies the requirements of
Section 162(m) for certain performance-based compensation paid to Covered Employees.
6
 
(nn) 
 
Performance Goal
means a performance goal established by the Committee pursuant to Section 10.3.
(oo) 
 
Performance Period
means a period established by the Committee pursuant to Section 10.3 at the end of which one or more Performance Goals are to be measured.
(pp) 
Performance Share
means a bookkeeping entry representing a right granted to a Participant
pursuant to Section 10 to receive a payment equal to the value of a Performance Share, as determined by the Committee, based on performance.
(qq) 
Performance Unit
means a bookkeeping entry representing a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10 to receive a payment equal to the value of a Performance Unit, as determined by the Committee, based upon performance.
(rr)   
Predecessor Plan
means the Comp
any
s 1996 Stock Incentive
Plan.
(ss) 
Restricted Stock Unit
or 
 
Stock Unit
means a bookkeeping entry representing a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9 or Section 11, respectively, to receive a share of Stock on a date determined in
accordance with the provisions of Section 9 or Section 11, as applicable, and the Participant
s Award Agreement.
(tt) 
Restriction Period
means the period established in accordance with Section 8.5 during which shares subject to a Stock Award are subjec
t to Vesting Conditions.
(uu) 
 
Rule 16b-3
means Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, as amended from time to time, or any successor rule or regulation.
(vv) 
SAR
or 
Stock Appreciation Right
means a bookkeeping entry represe
nting, for each share of Stock subject to such SAR, a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 7 to receive payment of an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR over th
e
exercise price.
  
(ww)
Section 162(m)
means Section 162(m) of the Code.
  
(xx)
Section 409A
means Section 409A of the Code (including
regulations or administrative guidelines thereunder).
  
(yy)
Securities Act
means the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended.
  
(zz)
Service
means a Participant
s employment or service with the
Participating Company Group, whether in the capacity of an Employee, a Director or a Consultant. A Participant
s Service shall not be deemed to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Participant renders such Service or a change in the Participating Company for which the Participant renders such Service, provided that there is no in
t
erruption or termination of the Participant
s Service. Furthermore, a Participant
s Service shall not be deemed to have terminated if the Participant takes any military leave, sick leave, or other bona fide leave of absence approved by the Company. Howeve
r
, if any such leave taken
 
7
 
 
by a Participant exceeds ninety (90) days, then on the ninety-first (91st) day following the commencement of such leave the Participant
s Service shall be deemed to have termina
ted unless the Participant
s right to return to Service is guaranteed by statute or contract.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise designated by the Company, a leave of absence shall be treated as Service for purposes of determining vesting und
er the Participant
s Award Agreement. A Participant
s Service shall be deemed to have terminated either upon an actual termination of Service or upon the entity for which the Participant performs Service ceasing to be a Participating Company. Subject to t
h
e foregoing, the Company, in its discretion, shall determine whether the Participant
s Service has terminated and the effective date of such termination.
(aaa) 
Stock
means the common stock of the Company, as adjusted from time to time in accordance with
Section 4.4.
(bbb)  
Stock Award
means an Award of a Stock Bonus or a Stock
Purchase Right.
(ccc)  
Stock Bonus
means Stock granted to a Participant pursuant to
Section 8.
(ddd) 
Stock Purchase Right
means a right to purchase Stock granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 8.
(eee) 
Subsidiary Corporation
means any present or future 
subsidiary corporation
of the Company, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
(fff) 
Ten Percent Owner
means
a Participant who, at the time an Option is granted to the Participant, owns stock possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of a Participating Company (other than an Affiliate) within the meaning o
f
Section 422(b)(6) of the Code.
(ggg) 
 
Vesting Conditions
mean those conditions established in accordance with the Plan prior to the satisfaction of which shares subject to an Award remain subject to forfeiture or a repurchase option in favor of the Company exercisable for the Participant
s purchase price for s
u
ch shares upon the Participant
s termination of Service.
2.2
Construction
. Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience
 
only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of the Plan. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Use of the term 
or
is not intended to
b
e exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
           
3.
A
DMINISTRATION
.
3.1
Administration by the Committee
. The Plan shall be administered by
 
the Committee. All questions of interpretation of the Plan or of any Award shall be determined by the Co
mmittee, and such determinations shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Plan or such Award.
8
 
3.2
Authority of Officers
. Any Officer shall have the authority to act on
 
be
half of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, determination or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the Officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obliga
t
ion, determination or election. The Board or Committee may, in its discretion, delegate to a committee comprised of one or more Officers the authority to grant one or more Awards, without further approval of the Board or the Committee, to any Employee, ot
h
er than a person who, at the time of such grant, is an Insider; provided, however, that (a) such Awards shall not be granted for shares in excess of the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock authorized for issuance pursuant to Section 4.1,
 
(b) each
such Award which is a Full Value Award shall be subject to minimum vesting provisions described in Section 5.3(c), (c) each such Award shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the appropriate standard form of Award Agreement approved by the Board o
r
 the Committee and shall conform to the provisions of the Plan, and (d) each such Award shall conform to such limits and guidelines as shall be established from time to time by resolution of the Board or the Committee.
3.3
Administration with Respect to I
nsiders
. With respect to participation
 
by Insiders in the Plan, at any time that any class of equity security of the Company is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, the Plan shall be administered in compliance with the requirements, if an
y, of Rule 16b-3.
3.4
Committee Complying with Section 162(m)
. If the Company is a
 
publicly held corporation
within the meaning of Section 162(m), the Board may establish a Committee of 
outside directors
within the meaning of Section 162(m) to approve
the grant of any Award intended to result in the payment of Performance-Based Compensation.
3.5
Powers of the Committee
. In addition to any other powers set forth in
 
the Plan and subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have the full an
d final power and authority, in its discretion:
(a) to determine the persons to whom, and the time or times at which, Awards shall be granted and the number of shares of Stock, units or monetary value to be subject to each Award;
  
(b)
to determine the type of Award granted;
  
(c)
to determine the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock or other
property;
(d) to determine the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to each Award (which need not be identical) and any shares acquired
pursuant thereto, including, without limitation, (i) the exercise or purchase price of shares pursuant to any Award, (ii) the method of payment for shares purchased pursuant to any Award, (iii) the method for satisfaction of any tax withholding obligatio
n
arising in connection with Award, including by the withholding or delivery of shares of Stock, (iv) the timing, terms and conditions of the exercisability or vesting of any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto, (v) the Performance Measures, Perf
o
rmance Period, Performance Award Formula and Performance Goals applicable to any Award and the extent to which such Performance Goals have been
 
 
9
 
attained, (vi) the time of the expiration of any Award, (vi
i) the effect of the Participant
s termination of Service on any of the foregoing, and (viii) all other terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to any Award or shares acquired pursuant thereto not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan;
(e) to determine whether an Award will be settled in shares of Stock, cash, or in any combination thereof;
  
(f)
to approve one or more forms of Award Agreement;
  
(g)
to amend, modify, extend, cancel or renew any Award or to waive
any restrictions or co
nditions applicable to any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto;
(h) to accelerate, continue, extend or defer the exercisability or vesting of any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto, including with respect to the period following a Par
ticipant
s termination of Service;
(i) without the consent of the affected Participant and notwithstanding the provisions of any Award Agreement to the contrary, to unilaterally substitute at any time a Stock Appreciation Right providing for settlement so
lely in shares of Stock in place of any outstanding Option, provided that such Stock Appreciation Right covers the same number of shares of Stock and provides for the same exercise price (subject in each case to adjustment in accordance with Section 4.4)
a
s the replaced Option and otherwise provides substantially equivalent terms and conditions as the replaced Option, as determined by the Committee;
(j) to prescribe, amend or rescind rules, guidelines and policies relating to the Plan, or to adopt sub- plans or supplements to, or alternative versions of, the Plan, including, without limitation, as the Committee deems necessary or desirable to comply
w
ith the laws or regulations of or to accommodate the tax policy, accounting principles or custom of, foreign jurisdictions whose citizens may be granted Awards; and
(k) to correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan
or any Award Agreement and to make all other determinations and take such other actions with respect to the Plan or any Award as the Committee may deem advisable to the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan or applicable law.
3.6
Option
or SAR Repricing
. Except in connection with a corporate
 
transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-
off, combination, or exchange of shares), the Company shall not amend the terms of outstanding awards to reduce the exercise price of outstanding Options or SARs or cancel outstanding Options or SARS in exchange for cash, other awards or Options or SARs w
i
th an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original Options or SARs without stockholder approval This paragraph shall not be construed to apply to 
issuing or assuming a stock option in a transaction to which Section 424(a) applies,
 
within the meaning of Section 424 of the Code.
10
 
 
3.7
Indemnification
. In addition to such other rights of indemnification as
 
they may have as members of the Board or the Committee or as officers or emp
loyees of the Participating Company Group, members of the Board or the Committee and any officers or employees of the Participating Company Group to whom authority to act for the Board, the Committee or the Company is delegated shall be indemnified by the
 
Company against all reasonable expenses, including attorneys
fees, actually and necessarily incurred in connection with the defense of any action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with any appeal therein, to which they or any of them may be a party b
y
reason of any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan, or any right granted hereunder, and against all amounts paid by them in settlement thereof (provided such settlement is approved by independent legal counsel selected by t
h
e Company) or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding, except in relation to matters as to which it shall be adjudged in such action, suit or proceeding that such person is liable for gross negligence, bad faith o
r
intentional misconduct in duties; provided, however, that within sixty (60) days after the institution of such action, suit or proceeding, such person shall offer to the Company, in writing, the opportunity at its own expense to handle and defend the sam
e
.
           
4.
S
HARES
S
UBJECT TO
P
LAN
.
4.1
Maximum Number of Shares Issuable
. Subject to adjustment as
 
provided in Sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan shall be equal to the lesser of (a) the number of shares of Stock available for grant under the Predecessor Plan as of the Effective D
a
te or (b) 42,000,000 shares, plus 30 million shares added effective May 28, 2009, plus 125 million shares added effective May 13, 2010, and shall consist of authorized but unissued or reacquired shares of Stock or any combination thereof.
4.2
Share Accoun
ting
. If an outstanding Award for any reason expires or is
 
terminated or canceled without having been exercised or settled in full, or if shares of Stock acquired pursuant to an Award subject to forfeiture or repurchase are forfeited or repurchased by the
Company for an amount not greater than the Participant
s original purchase price, the shares of Stock allocable to the terminated portion of such Award or such forfeited or repurchased shares of Stock shall again be available for issuance under the Plan.
S
hares of Stock shall not be deemed to have been issued pursuant to the Plan with respect to any portion of an Award, other than an Option or SAR, that is settled in cash. Shares withheld or reacquired by the Company in satisfaction of tax withholding obli
g
ations pursuant to Section 17.2 shall not again be available for issuance under the Plan. Upon payment in shares of Stock pursuant to the exercise of an SAR, the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the gross number o
f
shares for which the SAR is exercised. If the exercise price of an Option is paid by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock owned by the Participant, or by means of a Net-Exercise, the number of shares available for is
s
uance under the Plan shall be reduced by the gross number of shares for which the Option is exercised.
4.3
Adjustment for Unissued or Forfeited Predecessor Plan Shares
. The
 
maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan as s
et forth in Section 4.1 shall be cumulatively increased from time to time by:
 
11
 
(a) the number of shares of Stock subject to that portion of any award outstanding pursuant to the Predecessor Plan as of the Effective Date which, on or after such date, expires or is terminated or canceled for any reason without having been exercised or
 
settled; and
(b) the number of shares of Stock acquired pursuant to the Predecessor Plan subject to forfeiture or repurchase by the Company which, on or after the Effective Date, are so forfeited or repurchased for an amount not greater than the Participa
nt
s original purchase price;
provided, however, that the aggregate number of shares of Stock authorized for issuance under the Predecessor Plans that may become authorized for issuance under the Plan pursuant to this Section 4.3 shall not exceed thirty-n
ine million (39,000,000), subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4.
4.4
Adjustments for Changes in Capital Structure
. Subject to any required
 
action by the stockholders of the Company, in the event of any change in the Stock effected without recei
pt of consideration by the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchang
e
of shares, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of payment of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company in a form other than Stock (excepting normal cash dividends) that has a material effect on t
h
e Fair Market Value of shares of Stock, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the number and kind of shares subject to the Plan and to any outstanding Awards, in the maximum adjustment for unissued or forfeited Predecessor Plan shares set forth in Sect
i
on 4.3, in the Award limits set forth in Section 5.3 and in the exercise or purchase price per share under any outstanding Award in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants
rights under the Plan. For purposes of the foregoing, conversion
o
f any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as 
effected without receipt of consideration by the Company.
If a majority of the shares which are of the same class as the shares that are subject to outstanding Awards are exchanged for,
 
converted into, or otherwise become (whether or not pursuant to an Ownership Change Event) shares of another corporation (the 
New Shares
), the Committee may unilaterally amend the outstanding Awards to provide that such Awards are for New Shares. In the
event of any such amendment, the number of shares subject to, and the exercise or purchase price per share of, the outstanding Awards shall be adjusted in a fair and equitable manner as determined by the Committee, in its discretion. Any fractional share
 
resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section 4.4 shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number, and in no event may the exercise or purchase price under any Award be decreased to an amount less than the par value, if any, of the stock subject
 
to such Award. The Committee in its sole discretion, may also make such adjustments in the terms of any Award to reflect, or related to, such changes in the capital structure of the Company or distributions as it deems appropriate, including modification
o
f Performance Goals, Performance Award Formulas and Performance Periods. The adjustments determined by the Committee pursuant to this Section 4.4 shall be final, binding and conclusive.
The Committee may, without affecting the number of Shares reserved or
available hereunder, authorize the issuance or assumption of benefits under this Plan in connection with any merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, or reorganization upon such terms
12
 
and conditions as it may deem appropriate, subject to compliance with Sections 409A and 422 and any related guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, where applicable.
           
5.
E
LIGIBILITY
, P
ARTICIPATION AND
A
WARD
L
IMITATIONS
.
5.1
Persons Eligible for A
wards
. Awards may be granted only to Employees,
 
Consultants and Directors. A Nonemployee Director Award may be granted only to a person who, at the time of grant, is a Nonemployee Director.
5.2
Participation in Plan
. Awards are granted solely at the discretion of the
 
Committee. Eligible persons may be granted more than one Award. However, eligibility in accordance with this Section shall not entitle any person to be granted an Award, or, having been granted an Award,
to be granted an additional Award.
  
5.3
Award Limitations
.
(i)
Maximum Number of Shares Issuable Pursuant to
 
Incentive Stock Options
. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, the maximum
 
aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan pursuant to the exercise of Incentive Stock Options shall not exceed forty two million (42,000,000) shares, plus any shares added to the aggregate number of shares under the Plan pursua
n
t to Section 4.1 as a result of stockholder approval following the Effective Date. The maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan pursuant to all Awards other than Incentive Stock Options shall be the number of shares de
t
ermined in accordance with Section 4.1, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2, 4.3 and Section 4.4.
(ii)
Persons Eligible
. An Incentive Stock Option may be granted only to a person who, on the effective date of grant, is an Employee of the Comp
any, a Parent Corporation or a Subsidiary Corporation (each being an 
ISO-Qualifying Corporation
). Any person who is not an Employee of an ISO-Qualifying Corporation on the effective date of the grant of an Option to such person may be granted only a Nons
tatutory Stock Option. An Incentive Stock Option granted to a prospective Employee upon the condition that such person become an Employee of an ISO-Qualifying Corporation shall be deemed granted effective on the date such person commences Service with an
I
SO-Qualifying Corporation, with an exercise price determined as of such date in accordance with Section 8.2.
(iii)
Fair Market Value Limitation
. To the extent that options designated as Incentive Stock Options (granted under all stock option plans of the Participating Company Group, including the Plan) become exercisable by a Participant for the first time during any calendar year for stock havi
n
g a Fair Market Value greater than One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000), the portion of such options which exceeds such amount shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options. For purposes of this Section, options designated as Incentive Stock Options s
h
all be taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the Fair Market Value of stock shall be determined as of the time the option with respect to such stock is granted. If the Code is amended to provide for a limitation different from th
a
t set forth in this Section, such different limitation shall be deemed incorporated herein effective as of the
13
 
date and with respect to such Options as required or permitted by such amendment to the Cod
e. If an Option is treated as an Incentive Stock Option in part and as a Nonstatutory Stock Option in part by reason of the limitation set forth in this Section, the Participant may designate which portion of such Option the Participant is exercising. In
t
he absence of such designation, the Participant shall be deemed to have exercised the Incentive Stock Option portion of the Option first. Upon exercise, shares issued pursuant to each such portion shall be separately identified.
(b)
Limit on Full Value Aw
ards without Minimum Vesting
. Except with respect to a maximum of five percent (5%) of the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan, as provided in Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4, any Full Value Award which vests on the
basis of the Participant
s continued Service shall not provide for vesting which is any more rapid than over a period of three (3) years, and any Full Value Award which vests on the basis of the attainment of performance goals shall not provide for a per
f
ormance period of less than twelve (12) months; provided, however, that such limitations shall not preclude the acceleration of vesting of any such Award upon the death, disability, retirement or involuntary termination of Service of the Participant or up
o
n or following a Change in Control, as determined by the Committee in its discretion.
(c) Section
162(m) Award Limits
. The following limits shall apply to the grant of any Award if, at the time of grant, the Company is a 
publicly held corporation
within
the meaning of Section 162(m).
(i)
Options and SARs
. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, no Employee shall be granted within any fiscal year of the Company one or more Options or Freestanding SARs which in the aggregate are for more than two million five hundred thousand (2,500,000) shares.
(ii)
Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards
. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, no Employee shall be granted within any fiscal year of the Company one or more Stock Awards or Restricted Stock Unit Awards, the grant or vesting of which
is based on the attainment of Performance Goals, for more than one million five hundred thousand (1,500,000) shares.
(iii)
Performance Awards
. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, no Employee shall be granted (1) Performance Shares which cou
ld result in such Employee receiving more than one million five hundred thousand (1,500,000) shares for each full fiscal year of the Company contained in the Performance Period for such Award, or
(2) Performance Units which could result in such Employee r
eceiving more than five million ($5,000,000) for each full fiscal year of the Company contained in the Performance Period for such Award. No Participant may be granted more than one Performance Award for the same Performance Period.
(iv)
Cash-Based Awards
and Other Stock-Based Awards
. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, no Employee shall be granted (1) Cash-Based Awards in any fiscal year of the Company, the grant or vesting of which is based on the attainment of Performance Goals, which coul
d result in such Employee receiving more than five million ($5,000,000), or (2) Other Stock-Based Awards in any fiscal year of the Company, the
14
 
grant or vesting of which is based on the attainment of Performance Goals, which could result in such Employee receiving more than one million five hundred thousand (1,500,000) shares.
           
6.
S
TOCK
O
PTIONS
.
Options shall be evidenced by Award Agreements spec
ifying the number of shares of Stock covered thereby, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Option or purported Option shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreemen
t
. Award Agreements evidencing Options may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including the provisions of
Section 19 with respect to Section 409A if applicable, and, except as otherwise set forth in Section 12 with respect to None
mployee Director Options, shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
6.1
Exercise Price
. The exercise price for each Option shall be established in
 
the discretion of the Committee; provided, however, that (a) the exercise pric
e per share shall be not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the Option and (b) no Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Owner shall have an exercise price per share less than one hundred ten per
c
ent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the Option. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option (whether an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option) may be granted with an exercise price lower t
h
an the minimum exercise price set forth above if such Option is granted pursuant to an assumption or substitution for another option in a manner qualifying under the provisions of Section 424(a) of the Code.
6.2
Exercisability and Term of Options
. Options shall be exercisable at
 
such time or times, or upon such event or events, and subject to such terms, conditions, performance criteria and restrictions as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Op
tion; provided, however, that (a) no Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years after the effective date of grant of such Option and (b) no Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Owner shall be exercisable after the expira
t
ion of five (5) years after the effective date of grant of such Option. Subject to the foregoing, unless otherwise specified by the Committee in the grant of an Option, each Option granted hereunder shall terminate ten (10) years after the effective date
o
f grant of the Option, unless earlier terminated in accordance with its provisions.
6.3  
Payment of Exercise Price
.
(a)
Forms of Consideration Authorized
. Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the exercise price for the number of shares of Sto
ck being purchased pursuant to any Option shall be made (i) in cash or by check or cash equivalent, (ii) by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock owned by the Participant having a Fair Market Value not less than the ex
e
rcise price, (iii) by delivery of a properly executed notice of exercise together with irrevocable instructions to a broker providing for the assignment to the Company of the proceeds of a sale or loan with respect to some or all of the shares being acqui
r
ed upon the exercise of the Option (including, without limitation, through an exercise complying with the provisions of Regulation T as promulgated from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) (a 
Cashless Exercise
), (iv) by
delivery of a
 
 
15
 
properly executed notice electing a Net-Exercise, (v) by such other consideration as may be approved by the Committee from time to time to the extent permitted by applicable law, provided,
however, that the Committee shall not permit payment by means of a Participant
s promissory note, or (vi) by any combination thereof. The Committee may at any time or from time to time grant Options which do not permit all of the foregoing forms of consi
d
eration to be used in payment of the exercise price or which otherwise restrict one or more forms of consideration.
           
(b)
Limitations on Forms of Consideration
.
(i)
Tender of Stock.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock to the extent such tender or attestation would constitute a violation of the provisions of any law, regulation or
a
greement restricting the redemption of the Company
s stock. Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, an Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock unless such shares either have been owned
b
y the Participant for more than six (6) months (or such other period, if any, as the Committee may permit) and not used for another Option exercise by attestation during such period, or were not acquired, directly or indirectly, from the Company.
(ii)
Cas
hless Exercise
. The Company reserves, at any and all times, the right, in the Company
s sole and absolute discretion, to establish, decline to approve or terminate any program or procedures for the exercise of Options by means of a Cashless Exercise, inclu
ding with respect to one or more Participants specified by the Company notwithstanding that such program or procedures may be available to other Participants.
6.4  
Effect of Termination of Service
.
(a)
Option Exercisability
. Subject to earlier termination of the Option as otherwise provided herein and unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the grant of an Option and set forth in the Award Agreement, an Option shall terminate immediately upon the Participant
s termina
t
ion of Service to the extent that it is then unvested and shall be exercisable after the Participant
s termination of Service to the extent it is then vested only during the applicable time period determined in accordance with this Section and thereafter
s
hall terminate:
(i)
Disability
. If the Participant
s Service terminates because of the Disability of the Participant, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date on which the Participant
s Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant (or the Participant
s guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant
s Service terminated, but in any event no l
a
ter than the date of expiration of the Option
s term as set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option (the 
Option Expiration Date
).
(ii)
Death
. If the Participant
s Service terminates because of the death of the Participant, any unexercisable
or unvested portion of the Option shall be immediately exercisable and vested in full on the date on which the Participant
s Service terminated and may be exercised by the Participant
s legal representative or other person who
16
 
acquired the right to exercise the Option by reason of the Participant
s death at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant
s Service terminated, but in any event no later
than the Option Expiration Date. The Participant
s Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Participant dies within three (3) months after the Participant
s termination of Service.
(iii)
Termination for Cause
. Notwithstanding
any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if the Participant
s Service is terminated for Cause or if, following the Participant
s termination of Service and during any period in which the Option otherwise would remain exercisable, the Participant e
n
gages in any act that would constitute Cause for termination of Service, the Option shall terminate in its entirety and cease to be exercisable immediately upon such termination of Service or act.
(iv)
Other Termination of Service
. If the Participant
s Service terminates for any reason, except Disability, death or Cause, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable by the Participant on the date on which the Participant
s Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant (1) at any time
 
prior to the expiration of six (6) months after the date on which the Participant
s Service terminated if the Participant remains subject to the Insider Trading Policy for a period of at least sixty (60) days following the date on which the Participant
s
S
ervice terminated or (2) at any time prior to the expiration of three (3) months after the date on which the Participant
s Service terminated in the case of any other Participant, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
(b)
Extension if
Exercise Prevented by Law
. Notwithstanding the foregoing, other than termination for Cause, if the exercise of an Option within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 6.4(a) is prevented by the provisions of Section 16 below, the Option shall re
main exercisable until three (3) months (or such longer period of time as determined by the Committee, in its discretion) after the date the Participant is notified by the Company that the Option is exercisable, but in any event no later than the Option E
x
piration Date.
(c)
Extension if Participant Subject to
Section
16(b)
. Notwithstanding the foregoing, other than termination for Cause, if a sale within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 6.4(a) of shares acquired upon the exercise of the Opt
ion would subject the Participant to suit under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Option shall remain exercisable until the earliest to occur of (i) the tenth (10th) day following the date on which a sale of such shares by the Participant would no lo
n
ger be subject to such suit, (ii) the one hundred and ninetieth (190th) day after the Participant
s termination of Service, or (iii) the Option Expiration Date.
6.5
Transferability of Options
. During the lifetime of the Participant, an
 
Option shall be exe
rcisable only by the Participant or the Participant
s guardian or legal representative. An Option shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the
 
Participant or the Participant
s beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Nonstatutory Stock Option shall be assignable or transferable to the extent permitted by the Committee, in i
t
s discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option.
 
17
 
           
7.
S
TOCK
A
PPRECIATION
R
IGHTS
.
Stock Appreciation Rights shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No SAR or purported SAR shall be a valid and binding obligatio
n
of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing SARs may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A if applicable, and sha
l
l comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
7.1
Types of SARs Authorized
. SARs may be granted in tandem with all or
 
any portion of a related Option (a 
Tandem SAR
) or may be granted independently of any Option (a 
Freestanding SAR
). A Tandem SAR may only be granted concurrently with the grant of the related Option.
7.2
Exercise Price
. The exercise price for each SAR shall be established in
 
the discretion of the Committee; provided, however, that (a) the exercise price per share s
ubject to a Tandem SAR shall be the exercise price per share under the related Option and (b) the exercise price per share subject to a Freestanding SAR shall be not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the
 
SAR.
7.3  
Exercisability and Term of SARs
.
(a)
Tandem SARs
. Tandem SARs shall be exercisable only at the time and to the extent, and only to the extent, that the related Option is exercisable, subject to such provisions as the Committee may specify whe
re the Tandem SAR is granted with respect to less than the full number of shares of Stock subject to the related Option. The Committee may, in its discretion, provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Tandem SAR that such SAR may not be exercised withou
t
the advance approval of the Company and, if such approval is not given, then the Option shall nevertheless remain exercisable in accordance with its terms. A Tandem SAR shall terminate and cease to be exercisable no later than the date on which the relat
e
d Option expires or is terminated or canceled. Upon the exercise of a Tandem SAR with respect to some or all of the shares subject to such SAR, the related Option shall be canceled automatically as to the number of shares with respect to which the Tandem
S
AR was exercised. Upon the exercise of an Option related to a Tandem SAR as to some or all of the shares subject to such Option, the related Tandem SAR shall be canceled automatically as to the number of shares with respect to which the related Option was
 
exercised.
(b)
Freestanding SARs
. Freestanding SARs shall be exercisable at such time or times, or upon such event or events, and subject
to such terms, conditions, performance criteria and restrictions as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such SAR; provided, however, that no Freestanding SAR shall be exercisable after the expiration of te
n
(10) years after the effective date of grant of such SAR.
7.4
Exercise of SARs
. Upon the exercise (or deemed exercise pursuant to
 
Section 7.5) of an SAR, the Participant (or the Participant
s legal representative or other person who acquired the right to
exercise the SAR by reason of the Participant
s death) shall be entitled to receive payment of an amount for each share with respect to which the SAR is exercised equal
18
 
to the excess, if any, of the Fa
ir Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR over the exercise price. Payment of such amount shall be made (a) in the case of a Tandem SAR, solely in shares of Stock in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the date of exer
c
ise of the SAR and (b) in the case of a Freestanding SAR, in cash, shares of Stock, or any combination thereof as determined by the Committee in compliance with Section 409A. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement evidencing a Freestanding SAR,
p
ayment shall be made in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the date of exercise of the SAR. The Award Agreement evidencing any Freestanding SAR may provide for deferred payment in a lump sum or in installments in compliance with Section 409A. Whe
n
payment is to be made in shares of Stock, the number of shares to be issued shall be determined on the basis of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR. For purposes of Section 7, an SAR shall be deemed exercised on t
h
e date on which the Company receives notice of exercise from the Participant or as otherwise provided in Section 7.5.
7.5
Deemed Exercise of SARs
. If, on the date on which an SAR would
 
otherwise terminate or expire, the SAR by its terms remains exercisabl
e immediately prior to such termination or expiration and, if so exercised, would result in a payment to the holder of such SAR, then any portion of such SAR which has not previously been exercised shall automatically be deemed to be exercised as of such
d
ate with respect to such portion.
7.6
Effect of Termination of Service
. Subject to earlier termination of the
 
SAR as otherwise provided herein and unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the grant of an SAR and set forth in the Award Agreement, an S
AR shall be exercisable after a Participant
s termination of Service only to the extent and during the applicable time period determined in accordance with Section 6.4 (treating the SAR as if it were an Option) and thereafter shall terminate.
7.7
Nontransferability of SARs
. During the lifetime of the Participant, an
 
SAR shall be exercisable only by the Participant or the Participant
s guardian or legal representative. An SAR shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exc
hange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant
s beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Tandem SAR related to a
 
Nonstatutory Stock Option or a Freestanding SAR shall be assignable or transferable to the extent permitted by the Committee, in its discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such SAR.
           
8.
S
TOCK
A
WARDS
.
Stock Awards shall be evidenced by
Award Agreements specifying whether the Award is a Stock Bonus or a Stock Purchase Right and the number of shares of Stock subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Stock Award or purported Stock Award shal
l
be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Stock Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including the provisions of Section 19 with
r
espect to Section 409A, if applicable, and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
19
 
8.1
Types of Stock Awards Authorized
. Stock Awards may be granted in
 
the form of either a Stock Bonus or a Stock Purchase Right. Stock Awards may be granted upon such conditions as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals described in Section 10.4. I
f
either the grant of a Stock Award or the lapsing of the Restriction Period is to be contingent upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals, the Committee shall follow procedures substantially equivalent to those set forth in Sections 10.3 throug
h
10.5(a).
8.2
Purchase Price
. The purchase price for shares of Stock issuable under
 
each Stock Purchase Right shall be established by the Committee in its discretion. No monetary payment (other than applicable tax withholding) shall be required as a condition of receiving shares of Stock pursuant to a Stock Bonus, the consideration for w
h
ich shall be services actually rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if required by applicable state corporate law, the Participant shall furnish consideration in the form of cash or past services rendered
t
o a Participating Company or for its benefit having a value not less than the par value of the shares of Stock subject to a Stock Award.
8.3
Purchase Period
. A Stock Purchase Right shall be exercisable within a
 
period established by the Committee, which s
hall in no event exceed thirty (30) days from the effective date of the grant of the Stock Purchase Right.
8.4
Payment of Purchase Price
. Except as otherwise provided below,
 
payment of the purchase price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased p
ursuant to any Stock Purchase Right shall be made (i) in cash or by check or cash equivalent, (ii) by such other consideration as may be approved by the Committee from time to time to the extent permitted by applicable law, or (iii) by any combination the
r
eof. The Committee may at any time or from time to time grant Stock Purchase Rights which do not permit all of the foregoing forms of consideration to be used in payment of the purchase price or which otherwise restrict one or more forms of consideration.
8.5
Vesting and Restrictions on Transfer
. Subject to Section 5.3(b), Shares
 
issued pursuant to any Stock Award may (but need not) be made subject to Vesting Conditions based upon the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or p
erformance criteria, including, without limitation, Performance Goals as described in Section 10.4, as shall be established by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award. During any Restriction Period in which shares acquired
 
pursuant to a Stock Award remain subject to Vesting Conditions, such shares may not be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise disposed of other than pursuant to an Ownership Change Event or as provided in Section 8.8. The Committee,
i
n its discretion, may provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Stock Award that, if the satisfaction of Vesting Conditions with respect to any shares subject to such Stock Award would otherwise occur on a day on which the sale of such shares would viol
a
te the Company
s Insider Trading Policy, then the satisfaction of the Vesting Conditions automatically be deemed to occur on the next day on which the sale of such shares would not violate the Insider Trading Policy. Upon request by the Company, each Part
i
cipant shall execute any agreement evidencing such transfer restrictions prior to the receipt of shares of Stock hereunder and shall promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares of Stock acquired hereunder for the placement
 
on such certificates of appropriate legends evidencing any such transfer restrictions.
 
20
 
 
8.6
Voting Rights; Dividends and Distributions
. Except as provided in this
 
Section, Section 8.5 and any Award Agreement; during any Restriction Period applicable to shares subject to a Stock Award, the Participant shall have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company holding shares of Stock, including the right to vote su
c
h shares and to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to such shares. However, in the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or other property or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structu
r
e of the Company as described in Section 4.4, any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant is entitled by reason of the Participant
s Stock Award shall be immediately s
u
bject to the same Vesting Conditions as the shares subject to the Stock Award with respect to which such dividends or distributions were paid or adjustments were made.
8.7
Effect of Termination of Service
. Unless otherwise provided by the
 
Committee in the
Award Agreement evidencing a Stock Award, if a Participant
s Service terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary (including the Participant
s death or disability), then (a) the Company shall have the option to repurchase for the purchase
p
rice paid by the Participant any shares acquired by the Participant pursuant to a Stock Purchase Right which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participant
s termination of Service and (b) the Participant shall forfeit to the Compa
n
y any shares acquired by the Participant pursuant to a Stock Bonus which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participant
s termination of Service. The Company shall have the right to assign at any time any repurchase right it may ha
v
e, whether or not such right is then exercisable, to one or more persons as may be selected by the Company.
8.8
Nontransferability of Stock Award Rights
. Rights to acquire shares of
 
Stock pursuant to a Stock Award shall not be subject in any manner to ant
icipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant
s beneficiary, except transfer by will or the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to a
 
Stock Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant
s guardian or legal representative.
           
9.
R
ESTRICTED
S
TOCK
U
NIT
A
WARDS
.
Restricted Stock Unit Awards shall be evidence
d by Award Agreements specifying the number of Restricted Stock Units subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Restricted Stock Unit Award or purported Restricted Stock Unit Award shall be a valid and bindi
n
g obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Restricted Stock Units may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including the provisions of
Section 19 with respect to Se
ction 409A, if applicable, and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
9.1
Grant of Restricted Stock Unit Awards
. Restricted Stock Unit Awards
 
may be granted upon such conditions as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals described in Section 10.4. If either the grant of a Restricted Stock Unit Award or the Vesting Condit
i
ons with respect to such Award is to be contingent upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals, the
 
21
 
 
Committee shall follow procedures substantially equivalent to those set forth in Sections 10.3
through 10.5(a).
9.2
Purchase Price
. No monetary payment (other than applicable tax
 
withholding, if any) shall be required as a condition of receiving a Restricted Stock Unit Award, the consideration for which shall be services actually rendered to a Par
ticipating Company or for its benefit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if required by applicable state corporate law, the Participant shall furnish consideration in the form of cash or past services rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit ha
v
ing a value not less than the par value of the shares of Stock issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Unit Award.
9.3
Vesting
. Subject to Section 5.3(b), Restricted Stock Unit Awards may
 
(but need not) be made subject to Vesting Conditions based u
pon the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance criteria, including, without limitation, Performance Goals as described in Section 10.4, as shall be established by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreeme
n
t evidencing such Award.
9.4
Voting Rights, Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions
.
 
Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Restricted Stock Units until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evid
enced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). However, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Restricted Stock Unit Award that the Participan
t
shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalents with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock during the period beginning on the date such Award is granted and ending, with respect to the particular shares subject to the Award, on the earlier
o
f the date the Award is settled or the date on which it is terminated. Such Dividend Equivalents, if any, shall be paid by crediting the Participant with additional whole Restricted Stock Units as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock. Th
e
number of additional Restricted Stock Units (rounded to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (a) the amount of cash dividends paid on such date with respect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Restri
c
ted Stock Units previously credited to the Participant by (b) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on such date. Such additional Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the same terms and conditions and shall be settled in the same manner and at th
e
same time (or as soon thereafter as practicable) as the Restricted Stock Units originally subject to the Restricted Stock Unit Award. In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or other property or any other adjustment made upon a
 
change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.4, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participant
s Restricted Stock Unit Award so that it represents the right to receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or a
d
ditional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant would be entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Award, and all such new, substituted or additional securities or other pro
p
erty shall be immediately subject to the same Vesting Conditions as are applicable to the Award.
9.5
Effect of Termination of Service
. Unless otherwise provided by the
 
Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Unit Award, if a Participant
s Service terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary (including the Participant
s death or disability), then the Participant shall f
o
rfeit to the Company any Restricted
 
22
 
 
Stock Units pursuant to the Award which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participant
s termination of Service.
9.6
Settlement of Restricted
Stock Unit Awards
. The Company shall issue
 
to a Participant on the date on which Restricted Stock Units subject to the Participant
s Restricted Stock Unit Award vest or on such other date determined by the Committee, in its discretion, and set forth in the
Award Agreement one (1) share of Stock (and/or any other new, substituted or additional securities or other property pursuant to an adjustment described in Section 9.4) for each Restricted Stock Unit then becoming vested or otherwise to be settled on suc
h
date, subject to the withholding of applicable taxes. If permitted by the Committee, subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A, the Participant may elect in accordance with terms specified in the Award Agreement to defer receip
t
of all or any portion of the shares of Stock or other property otherwise issuable to the Participant pursuant to this Section, and such deferred issuance date(s) elected by the Participant shall be set forth in the Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the fo
r
egoing, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide for settlement of any Restricted Stock Unit Award by payment to the Participant in cash of an amount equal to the Fair Market Value on the payment date of the shares of Stock or other property otherwis
e
issuable to the Participant pursuant to this Section. The Committee, in its discretion, may provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Unit Award that, if the settlement of the Award with respect to any shares would otherwise occur on a
 
day on which the sale of such shares would violate the Company
s Insider Trading Policy, then the settlement with respect to such shares shall occur on the next day on which the sale of such shares would not violate the Insider Trading Policy.
9.7
Nontran
sferability of Restricted Stock Unit Awards
. The right to
 
receive shares pursuant to a Restricted Stock Unit Award shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by
creditors of the Participant or the Participant
s beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to a Restricted Stock Unit Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his
o
r her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant
s guardian or legal representative.
10.    
P
ERFORMANCE
 
A
WARDS
.
Performance Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Performance Award or purported Performance Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a ful
l
y executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Performance Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including the provisions of
Section 19 with respect to Section 409A, if applicable, and shall comply with and be su
bject to the following terms and conditions:
10.1
Types of Performance Awards Authorized
. Performance Awards may
 
be granted in the form of either Performance Shares or Performance Units. Each Award Agreement evidencing a Performance Award shall specify th
e number of Performance Shares or Performance Units subject thereto, the Performance Award Formula, the Performance Goal(s) and Performance Period applicable to the Award, and the other terms, conditions and restrictions of the Award.
 
23
 
 
10.2
Initial Value of Performance Shares and Performance Units
. Unless
 
otherwise provided by the Committee in granting a Performance Award, each Performance Share shall have an initial monetary value equal to the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Stock, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, on the effective d
a
te of grant of the Performance Share, and each Performance Unit shall have an initial monetary value established by the Committee at the time of grant. The final value payable to the Participant in settlement of a Performance Award determined on the basis
 
of the applicable Performance Award Formula will depend on the extent to which Performance Goals established by the Committee are attained within the applicable Performance Period established by the Committee.
10.3
Establishment of Performance Period, Performance Goals and
 
Performance Award Formula
. In granting each Performance Award, the Committee shall
 
establish in writing the applicable Performance Period, Performance Award Formula and one or more Performance Goal
s which, when measured at the end of the Performance Period, shall determine on the basis of the Performance Award Formula the final value of the Performance Award to be paid to the Participant. Unless otherwise permitted in compliance with the requiremen
t
s under Section 162(m) with respect to each Performance Award intended to result in the payment of Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee shall establish the Performance Goal(s) and Performance Award Formula applicable to each Performance Award no
l
ater than the earlier of (a) the date ninety (90) days after the commencement of the applicable Performance Period or (b) the date on which 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed, and, in any event, at a time when the outcome of the Performance Goals r
e
mains substantially uncertain. Once established, the Performance Goals and Performance Award Formula applicable to a Covered Employee shall not be changed during the Performance Period. The Company shall notify each Participant granted a Performance Award
 
of the terms of such Award, including the Performance Period, Performance Goal(s) and Performance Award Formula.
10.4
Measurement of Performance Goals
. Performance Goals shall be
 
established by the Committee on the basis of targets to be attained (
Perfor
mance Targets
) with respect to one or more measures of business or financial performance (each, a 
Performance Measure
), subject to the following:
(a)
Performance Measures
. Performance Measures shall have the same meanings as used in the Company
s finan
cial statements, or, if such terms are not used in the Company
s financial statements, they shall have the meaning applied pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, or as used generally in the Company
s industry. Performance Measures shall be
c
alculated with respect to the Company and each Subsidiary Corporation consolidated therewith for financial reporting purposes or such division or other business unit as may be selected by the Committee. For purposes of the Plan, the Performance Measures a
p
plicable to a Performance Award shall be calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but prior to the accrual or payment of any Performance Award for the same Performance Period and excluding the effect (whether positive or neg
a
tive) of any change in accounting standards or any extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring item, as determined by the Committee, occurring after the establishment of the Performance Goals applicable to the Performance Award. Each such adjustment, if any, s
h
all be made solely for the purpose of providing a consistent basis from period to period for the calculation of Performance Measures in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the Participant
s rights with respect to a
 
24
 
 
Performance Award. Performance Measures may be one or more of the following, as determined by the Committee:
25
 
 
(b)
Performance Targets
. Performance Targets may include a minimum, maximum, target level and intermediate levels of performance, with the final value of a Performance Award determined under the applicable Performance
Award Formula by the level attained during the applicable Performance Period. A Performance Target may be stated as an absolute value or as a value determined relative to an index, budget or other standard selected by the Committee.
10.5   
Settlement of
Performance Awards
.
(a)
Determination of Final Value
. As soon as practicable following the completion of the Performance Period applicable to a Performance Award, the Committee shall certify in writing the extent to which the applicable Performance Goals have been attained and the resulting final value of
t
he Award earned by the Participant and to be paid upon its settlement in accordance with the applicable Performance Award Formula.
(b)
Discretionary Adjustment of Award Formula
. In its discretion, the Committee may, either at the time it grants a Performa
nce Award or at any time thereafter, provide for the positive or negative adjustment of the Performance Award Formula applicable to a Performance Award granted to any Participant who is not a Covered Employee to reflect such Participant
s individual perfo
r
mance in his or her position with the Company or such other factors as the Committee may determine. If permitted under a Covered Employee
s Award Agreement, the Committee shall have the discretion, on the basis of such criteria as may be established by th
e
Committee, to reduce some or all of the value of the Performance Award that would otherwise be paid to the Covered Employee upon its settlement notwithstanding the attainment of any Performance Goal and the resulting value of the Performance Award determ
i
ned in accordance with the Performance Award Formula. No such reduction may result in an increase in the amount payable upon settlement of another Participant
s Performance Award that is intended to result in Performance-Based Compensation.
(c)
Effect of
Leaves of Absence
.
Unless otherwise required by law or a Participant
s Award Agreement, payment of the final value, if any, of a Performance Award held by a Participant who has taken in excess of thirty (30) days in leaves of absence during a Performance P
eriod shall be prorated on the basis of the number of days of the Participant
s
 
26
 
 
Service during the Performance Period during which the Participant was not on a leave of absence.
(d)
Notice to Participan
ts
. As soon as practicable following the Committee
s determination and certification in accordance with Sections 10.5(a) and (b), the Company shall notify each Participant of the determination of the Committee.
(e)
Payment in Settlement of Performance Awards
. Subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A, as soon as practicable following the Committee
s determination and certification in accordance with Sections 10.5(a) and (b), payment shall b
e made to each eligible Participant (or such Participant
s legal representative or other person who acquired the right to receive such payment by reason of the Participant
s death) of the final value of the Participant
s Performance Award. Payment of such
 
amount shall be made in cash, shares of Stock, or a combination thereof as determined by the Committee. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement evidencing a Performance Award, payment shall be made in a lump sum. If permitted by the Committee, an
d
subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A, the Participant may elect to defer receipt of all or any portion of the payment to be made to Participant pursuant to this Section, and such deferred payment date(s) elected by the Par
t
icipant shall be set forth in the Award Agreement. If any payment is to be made on a deferred basis, the Committee may, but shall not be obligated to, provide for the payment during the deferral period of Dividend Equivalents or interest.
(f)
Provisions A
pplicable to Payment in Shares
. If payment is to be made in shares of Stock, the number of such shares shall be determined by dividing the final value of the Performance Award by the value of a share of Stock determined by the method specified in the Awar
d Agreement. Such methods may include, without limitation, the closing market price on a specified date (such as the settlement date) or an average of market prices over a series of trading days. Shares of Stock issued in payment of any Performance Award
m
ay be fully vested and freely transferable shares or may be shares of Stock subject to Vesting Conditions as provided in Section 8.5. Any shares subject to Vesting Conditions shall be evidenced by an appropriate Award Agreement and shall be subject to the
 
provisions of Sections 8.5 through 8.8 above.
10.6
Voting Rights; Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions
.
 
Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Performance Share Awards until the date of the issuance
of such shares, if any (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). However, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Performance Sha
r
e Award that the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalents with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock during the period beginning on the date the Award is granted and ending, with respect to the particular shares subject to
 
the Award, on the earlier of the date on which the Performance Shares are settled or the date on which they are forfeited. Such Dividend Equivalents, if any, shall be credited to the Participant in the form of additional whole Performance Shares as of the
 
date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock. The number of additional Performance Shares (rounded to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (a) the amount of cash dividends paid on the dividend payment date with re
s
pect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Performance Shares previously credited to the Participant by (b) the Fair
 
27
 
 
Market Value per share of Stock on such date. Dividend Equivalents may b
e paid currently or may be accumulated and paid to the extent that Performance Shares become nonforfeitable, as determined by the Committee. Settlement of Dividend Equivalents may be made in cash, shares of Stock, or a combination thereof as determined by
 
the Committee, and may be paid on the same basis as settlement of the related Performance Share as provided in Section 10.5. Dividend Equivalents shall not be paid with respect to Performance Units. In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in share
s
of Stock or other property or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.4, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participant
s Performance Share Award so that it represents the right
t
o receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant would be entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Performance Sh
a
re Award, and all such new, substituted or additional securities or other property shall be immediately subject to the same Performance Goals as are applicable to the Award.
10.7
Effect of Termination of Service
. Unless otherwise provided by the
 
Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing a Performance Award, the effect of a Participant
s termination of Service on the Performance Award shall be as follows:
(a)
Death or Disability
. If the Participant
s Service terminates because of t
he death or Disability of the Participant before the completion of the Performance Period applicable to the Performance Award, the final value of the Participant
s Performance Award shall be determined by the extent to which the applicable Performance Goa
l
s have been attained with respect to the entire Performance Period and shall be prorated based on the number of days of the Participant
s Service during the Performance Period. Payment shall be made following the end of the Performance Period in any manne
r
permitted by Section 10.5.
(b)
Other Termination of Service
. If the Participant
s Service terminates for any reason except death or Disability before the completion of the Performance Period applicable to the Performance Award, such Award shall be forfei
ted in its entirety.
10.8
Nontransferability of Performance Awards
. Prior to settlement in
 
accordance with the provisions of the Plan, no Performance Award shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, p
ledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant
s beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to a Performance Award granted to a Participant hereunder shal
l
be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant
s guardian or legal representative.
11.    
D
EFERRED
 
C
OMPENSATION
 
A
WARDS
.
11.1
Establishment of Deferred Compensation Award Programs
. This
 
Section 11 shall not be effec
tive unless and until the Committee determines to establish a program pursuant to this Section. The Committee, in its discretion and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A,
m
ay establish one or more programs pursuant to the Plan under which:
28
 
(a)
Elective Cash Compensation Reduction Awards
. Participants designated by the Committee who are Insiders or otherwise among a select group of highly compensated Employees may irrevocably elect, prior to a date specified by the Committee and complying with Section 409A, to reduce such Participant
s c
o
mpensation otherwise payable in cash (subject to any minimum or maximum reductions imposed by the Committee) and to be granted automatically at such time or times as specified by the Committee one or more Stock Bonus Awards or Awards of Stock Units with r
e
spect to such numbers of shares of Stock as determined in accordance with the rules of the program established by the Committee and having such other terms and conditions as established by the Committee.
(b)
Stock Issuance Deferral Awards
. Participants de
signated by the Committee who are Insiders or otherwise among a select group of highly compensated Employees may irrevocably elect, prior to a date specified by the Committee and complying with Section 409A, to be granted automatically an Award of Stock U
n
its with respect to such number of shares of Stock and upon such other terms and conditions as established by the Committee in lieu of:
  
(i)
shares of Stock otherwise issuable to such Participant upon
the exercise of an Option;
(ii) cash or shares of Stock otherwise issuable to such Participant upon the exercise of an SAR; or
(iii) cash or shares of Stock otherwise issuable to such Participant upon the settlement of a Performance Award.
11.2
Terms and Conditions of Deferred Com
pensation Awards
. Deferred
 
Compensation Awards granted pursuant to this Section 11 shall be evidenced by Award Agreements in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No such Deferred Compensation Award or purported Deferred Compensatio
n Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Deferred Compensation Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including the p
r
ovisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A.
(a)
Terms and Conditions of Stock Bonus Awards
. Stock Bonus Awards granted pursuant to this Section 11 shall comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of Section 8.
(b)
Terms and Condition
s of Stock Units
. Except as provided below, Stock Units granted pursuant to this Section 11 shall comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of Section 9.
(i)
Voting Rights; Dividend Equivalent Rights and
 
Distributions
. Participants shall have
no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock
 
represented by Stock Units until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). However, a
Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalents with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock during the period beginning on the date the Stock
29
 
 
Units are granted automatically to the Participant and ending on the earlier of the date on which such Stock Units are settled or the date on which they are forfeited. Such Dividend Equivalents shall be paid by crediting the Participant with additional wh
o
le Stock Units as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock. The number of additional Stock Units (rounded to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (a) the amount of cash dividends paid on the dividend pa
y
ment date with respect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Stock Units previously credited to the Participant by (b) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on such date. Such additional Stock Units shall be subject to the same terms and
c
onditions and shall be settled in the same manner and at the same time (or as soon thereafter as practicable) as the Stock Units originally subject to the Stock Unit Award. In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or other proper
t
y or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in
 
Section 4.4, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participant
s Stock Unit Award so that it represents the right to receive upon settlement any and
 all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant would be entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Award.
(ii)
Settlement of Stock Unit Awards
. A
Participant electing to receive an Award of Stock Units pursuant to this Section 11 shall specify at the time of such election a settlement date with respect to such Award which complies with Section 409A. The Company shall issue to the Participant on the
 
settlement date elected by the Participant, or as soon thereafter as practicable, a number of whole shares of Stock equal to the number of vested Stock Units subject to the Stock Unit Award. Such shares of Stock shall be fully vested, and the Participant
s
hall not be required to pay any additional consideration (other than applicable tax withholding) to acquire such shares.
12.    
N
ONEMPLOYEE
 
D
IRECTOR
 
A
WARDS
.
Nonemployee Director Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of share
s of Stock covered thereby, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Nonemployee Director Award or purported Nonemployee Director Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed
A
ward Agreement. Such Award Agreements may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A if applicable, and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and cond
i
tions.
12.1
Terms and Conditions of Nonemployee Director Awards
. The
 
Committee shall determine the forms and amounts of the Nonemployee Director Awards from time to time, which determination may include (but not be limited to) adopting policies with respect to granting Awards when a person first becomes a Nonemployee Direc
t
or, granting Awards on an annual basis to Nonemployee Directors, and granting additional Awards on the basis of membership on or chairmanship of Board committees. The Committee shall establish the vesting and exercisability terms of all Nonemployee Direct
o
r Awards, including Nonemployee Director Options. Awards granted pursuant to this Section 12 may consist of any type of Award authorized under the Plan, including Options, SARs, Stock Awards or Restricted Stock Unit Awards, or any combination thereof.
30
 
12.2
Terms and Conditions of Nonemployee Director Options
. To the
 
extent the Committee determinates that Nonemployee Director Awards shall take the form of Nonemployee Director Options, then except as
provided by this Section, Nonemployee Director Options shall comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of Section 6.
(a)
Exercise Price
. The exercise price per share of Stock subject to a Nonemployee Director Option shall be the Fair Market
Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant of the Nonemployee Director Option.
(b)
Exercisability and Term of Nonemployee Director Options
. Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or in the Award Agreement evidencing a Nonemployee Director Option and provided that the Participant
s Service has not terminated prior to the relevant date, each Nonemployee Director Option shall vest and become
 
exercisable as set forth in the Award Agreement and shall terminate and cease to be exercisable on the tenth (10th) anniversary of the date of grant of the Nonemployee Director Option, unless earlier terminated in accordance with the terms of the Plan or
t
he Award Agreement evidencing such Option.
           
(c)
Effect of Termination of Service
.
(i)
Option Exercisability
. Subject to earlier termination of the Nonemployee Director Option as otherwise provided herein, a Nonemployee Director Option shall be exercisable
after the Participant
s termination of Service only during the applicable time period determined in accordance with this Section and thereafter shall terminate:
(1)
Disability
. If the Participant
s Service terminates because of the Disability of the Part
icipant, any unexercisable or unvested portion of the Nonemployee Director Option shall be immediately exercisable and vested in full on the date on which the Participant
s Service terminated and may be exercised by the Participant (or the Participant
s g
u
ardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant
s Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
(2)
Death
. If the Participant
s Service term
inates because of the death of the Participant, any unexercisable or unvested portion of the Nonemployee Director Option shall be immediately exercisable and vested in full on the date on which the Participant
s Service terminated and may be exercised by
t
he Participant
s legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the Nonemployee Director Option by reason of the Participant
s death at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant
s Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. The Participant
s Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Participant dies within three (3) months after the Participant
s termination of Servic
e
.
(3)
Other Termination of Service
. If the Participant
s Service terminates for any reason, except Disability or death, the Nonemployee Director Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable by the Participant on the date on which the Participant
s Se
rvice terminated, may be exercised by the Participant at any time prior to the
31
 
expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant
s Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
(ii)
Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law
. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the exercise of a Nonemployee Director Option within the applicable time periods set forth in S
ection 12.2(c)(i) is prevented by the provisions of Section 16 below, the Nonemployee Director Option shall remain exercisable until three (3)
months after the date the Participant is notified by the Company that the Nonemployee Director Option is exercis
able, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
(iii)
Extension if Participant Subject to Section 16(b)
. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a sale within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 12.2(c)(i) of shares acquired upon t
he exercise of the Nonemployee Director Option
would subject the Participant to suit under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Nonemployee Director Option shall remain exercisable until the earliest to occur of (i) the tenth (10th) day following the date on which a sale of such shares by the Partic
i
pant would no longer be subject to such suit, (ii) the one hundred and ninetieth (190th) day after the Participant
s termination of Service, or (iii) the Option Expiration Date.
13.    
C
ASH
-B
ASED
 
A
WARDS
 
A
ND
 
O
THER
 
S
TOCK
-B
ASED< /font>
 
A
WARDS
.
Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No such Award or purported Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced
 
by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference, including the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A, if appli
c
able, and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
13.1
Grant of Cash-Based Awards
. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the
 
Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Cash-Based Awards to Participants in such
amounts and upon such terms and conditions, including the achievement of performance criteria, as the Committee may determine.
13.2
Grant of Other Stock-Based Awards
. The Committee may grant other
 
types of equity-based or equity-related Awards not other
wise described by the terms of this Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted securities, stock-equivalent units, stock appreciation units, securities or debentures convertible into common stock or other forms determined by the Committee
)
in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. Such Awards may involve the transfer of actual shares of Stock to Participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value of Stock and may incl
u
de, without limitation, Awards designed to comply with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the United States.
13.3
Value of Cash-Based and Other Stock-Based Awards
. Each Cash-
Based Award shall specify a monetary payment amount or payment range as determined by the Committee. Each Other Stock-Based Award shall be expressed in terms of shares of Stock or units based on such shares of Stock, as determined by the Committee. The Co
m
mittee may
32
 
 
require the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance criteria, including, without limitation, Performance Goals as described in Section 10.4, as shal
l be established by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award. If the Committee exercises its discretion to establish performance criteria, the final value of Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards that will be paid t
o
the Participant will depend on the extent to which the performance criteria are met. The establishment of performance criteria with respect to the grant or vesting of any Cash-Based Award or Other Stock-Based Award intended to result in Performance-Based
 
Compensation shall follow procedures substantially equivalent to those applicable to Performance Awards set forth in Section 10.
13.4
Payment or Settlement of Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based
 
Awards
. Payment or settlement, if any, with respect to a
 Cash- Based Award or an Other Stock-Based Award shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Award, in cash, shares of Stock or other securities or any combination thereof as the Committee determines. The determination and certification of the final
 
value with respect to any Cash-Based Award or Other Stock-Based Award intended to result in Performance-Based Compensation shall comply with the requirements applicable to Performance Awards set forth in Section 10. To the extent applicable, payment or se
t
tlement with respect to each Cash-Based Award and Other Stock-Based Award shall be made in compliance with the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Code
Section 409A.
13.5
Voting Rights; Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions
.
 
Participants shal
l have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Other Stock-Based Awards until the date of the issuance of such shares of Stock (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agen
t
of the Company), if any, in settlement of such Award. However, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Other Stock-Based Award that the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalents with respect
 
to the payment of cash dividends on Stock during the period beginning on the date such Award is granted and ending, with respect to the particular shares subject to the Award, on the earlier of the date the Award is settled or the date on which it is term
i
nated. Such Dividend Equivalents, if any, shall be paid in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 9.4. Dividend Equivalent rights shall not be granted with respect to Cash-Based Awards.
13.6
Effect of Termination of Service
. Each Award Agreement evidencing a
 
Cash-Based Award or Other Stock-Based Award shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain such Award following termination of the Participant
s Service. Such provisions shall be deter
mined in the sole discretion of the Committee, need not be uniform among all Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
13.7
Nontransferability of Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Bas
ed
 
Awards
. Prior to the payment or settlement of a Cash-Based Award or Other Stock-Based
 
Award, the Award shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors
of the Participant or the Participant
s beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The Committee may impose such additional restrictions on any shares of Stock issued in settlement
 
33
 
 
of Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, minimum holding period requirements, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of
any stock exchange or market upon which such shares of Stock are then listed and/or traded, or under any state securities laws applicable to such shares of Stock.
14.    
S
TANDARD
 
F
ORMS
 
O
F
 
A
WARD
 
A
GREEMENT
.
14.1
Award Agreements
. Each Award shall comply wi
th and be subject to the
 
terms and conditions set forth in the appropriate form of Award Agreement approved by the Committee and as amended from time to time. Any Award Agreement may consist of an appropriate form of Notice of Grant and a form of Agreement
incorporated therein by reference, or such other form or forms as the Committee may approve from time to time.
14.2
Authority to Vary Terms
. The Committee shall have the authority from
 
time to time to vary the terms of any standard form of Award Agreement either in connection with the grant or amendment of an individual Award or in connection with the authorization of a new standard form or forms; provided, however, that the terms and c
o
nditions of any such new, revised or amended standard form or forms of Award Agreement are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan.
15.    
C
HANGE
 
I
N
 
C
ONTROL
.
15.1
Effect of Change in Control on Options and SARs
. Subject to the
 
provisions of Section 1
9 with respect to Section 409A if applicable, the Committee may provide for any one or more of the following:
(a)
Accelerated Vesting
. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide in any Award Agreement or, in the event of a Change in Control, may take such actions as it deems appropriate to provide for the acceleration of the exercisability and vesting in connection with such Ch
a
nge in Control of any or all outstanding Options and SARs and shares acquired upon the exercise of such Options and SARs upon such conditions, including termination of the Participant
s Service prior to, upon, or following such Change in Control, and to s
u
ch extent as the Committee shall determine.
(b)
Assumption or Substitution
. In the event of a Change in Control, the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing entity or parent thereof, as the case may be (the 
Acquiror
), may, without the consent of
any Participant, either assume or continue the Company
s rights and obligations under outstanding Options and SARs or substitute for outstanding Options and SARs substantially equivalent options and SARs (as the case may be) for the Acquiror
s stock. Any
 
Options or SARs which are neither assumed or continued by the Acquiror in connection with the Change in Control nor exercised as of the time of consummation of the Change in Control shall terminate and cease to be outstanding effective as of the time of c
o
nsummation of the Change in Control.
(c)
Cash-Out
. The Committee may, in its sole discretion and without the consent of any Participant, determine that, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each or any Option or SAR outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control shall be canceled
 
34
 
 
in exchange for a payment with respect to each vested share (and each unvested share, if so determined by the Committee) of Stock subject to such canceled Option or SAR in (i) cash, (ii) stock of the Co
mpany or of a corporation or other business entity a party to the Change in Control, or (iii) other property which, in any such case, shall be in an amount having a Fair Market Value equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the consideration to be
p
aid per share of Stock in the Change in Control over the exercise price per share under such Option or SAR (the 
Spread
). In the event such determination is made by the Committee, the Spread (reduced by applicable withholding taxes, if any) shall be paid
to Participants in respect of the vested portion of their canceled Options and SARs as soon as practicable following the date of
 
the Change in Control and in respect of the unvested portion of their canceled Options and SARs in accordance with the vesting
 schedule applicable to such Awards as in effect prior to the Change in Control.
15.2
Effect of Change in Control on Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Unit
 
Awards and Performance Awards
. Subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to
 
Section 409A if
applicable, the Committee may, in its discretion, provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award or Performance Award for, or in the event of a Change in control may take such actions as it deems appropriate to provi
d
e for, the lapsing of the Restriction Period applicable to the shares subject to the Stock Award (and, in the case of Restricted Stock Units and Performance Awards, acceleration of the vesting and settlement of such Award) upon such conditions, including
t
ermination of the Participant
s Service prior to, upon, or following such Change in Control, and to such extent as the Committee shall determine.
15.3
Effect of Change in Control on Deferred Compensation Awards
.
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A if applicable, the Committee may, in its discretion, provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Deferred Compensation Award that, in the event of a Change in Control, the Stock Awards o
r
Stock Units pursuant to such Award shall become vested and, in the case of Stock Units, shall be settled effective as of the date of the Change in Control to such extent as specified in such Award Agreement.
15.4
Effect of Change in Control on Nonemploye
e Director Awards
.
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A if applicable, any unexercisable or unvested portion of each outstanding Nonemployee Director Award and any shares acquired pursuant thereto shall be immediately exerci
sable and vested in full as of the date of the Change in Control. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, each Nonemployee Director Award shall be subject to the applicable provisions of this Section 15.
15.5
Effect of Change in Control on Cash-Base
d Awards and Other
 
Stock-Based Awards
. Subject to the provisions of Section 19 with respect to Section 409A if
 
applicable, the Committee may, in its discretion, provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Cash-Based Award or Other Stock-Based Award for, or
in the event of a Change in control may take such actions as it deems appropriate to provide for, acceleration of the vesting and settlement of such Award upon such conditions, including termination of the Participant
s Service prior to, upon, or followi
n
g such Change in Control, and to such extent as the Committee shall determine.
35
 
 
16.    
C
OMPLIANCE
 
W
ITH
 
S
ECURITIES
 
L
AW
.
The grant of Awards and the issuance of shares of Stock pursuant to any Award shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state and foreign law with respect to such securities and the requirements of any stock exchange or m
a
rket system upon which the Stock may then be listed. In addition, no Award may be exercised or shares issued pursuant to an Award unless (a) a registration statement under the Securities Act shall at the time of such exercise or issuance be in effect with
 
respect to the shares issuable pursuant to the Award or (b) in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the shares issuable pursuant to the Award may be issued in accordance with the terms of an applicable exemption from the registration requirements
o
f the Securities Act. The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company
s legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares hereunder shall relieve th
e
Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. As a condition to issuance of any Stock, the Company may require the Participant to satisfy any qualificati
o
ns that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
17.    
T
AX
 
W
ITHHOLDING
.
17.1
Tax Withholding in Gene
ral
. The Company shall have the right to
 
deduct from any and all payments made under the Plan, or to require the Participant, through payroll withholding, cash payment or otherwise, to make adequate provision for, the federal, state, local and foreign taxe
s, if any, required by law to be withheld by the Participating Company Group with respect to an Award or the shares acquired pursuant thereto. The Company shall have no obligation to deliver shares of Stock, to release shares of Stock from an escrow estab
l
ished pursuant to an Award Agreement, or to make any payment in cash under the Plan until the Participating Company Group
s tax withholding obligations have been satisfied by the Participant.
17.2
Withholding in Shares
. The Company shall have the right, b
ut not the
 
obligation, to deduct from the shares of Stock issuable to a Participant upon the exercise or settlement of an Award, or to accept from the Participant the tender of, a number of whole shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value, as determined by
the Company, equal to all or any part of the tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group. The Fair Market Value of any shares of Stock withheld or tendered to satisfy any such tax withholding obligations shall not exceed the amount det
e
rmined by the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates.
18.    
A
MENDMENT OR
 
T
ERMINATION OF
 
P
LAN
.
The Committee may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time. However, without the approval of the Company
s stockholders, there shall be (a) no
increase in the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan (except by operation of the provisions of Section 4.4), (b) no change in the class of persons eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options, and (c) no other amend
m
ent of the Plan that would require approval of the Company
s stockholders under any applicable law, regulation or rule, including the rules of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed. No
36
 
 
amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall affect any then outstanding Award unless expressly provided by the Committee. Except as provided by the next sentence, no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan
may adversely affect any then outstanding Award without the consent of the Participant. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion and without the consent of any Participant, am
e
nd the Plan or any Award Agreement, to take effect retroactively or otherwise, as it deems necessary or advisable for the purpose of conforming the Plan or such Award Agreement to any present or future law, regulation or rule applicable to the Plan, inclu
d
ing, but not limited to, Section 409A.
19.    
C
OMPLIANCE WITH
 
S
ECTION
 
409A
.
19.1
Awards Subject to Section 409A
. The provisions of this Section 19 shall
 
apply to any Award or portion thereof that is or becomes subject to Section 409A, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in the Plan or the Award Agreement applicable to such Award. Awards subject to Section 409A include, without limitati
o
n:
Subject to any applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated pursuant to
Section 409A or other applicable guidance, the term 
Short-Te
rm Deferral Period
 means the period ending on the later of (i) the date that is two and one-half months from the end of the Company
s fiscal year in which the applicable portion of the Award is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture or (ii)
 the date that is two and one-half months from the end of the Participant
s taxable year in which the applicable portion of the Award is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture. For this purpose, the term 
substantial risk of forfeiture
 sha
l
l have the meaning set forth in any applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated pursuant to Section 409A or other applicable guidance.
19.2
Deferral and/or Distribution Elections
. Except as otherwise permitted
 
or required by Section 409A or any appli
cable U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated pursuant to Section 409A or other applicable guidance, the following rules shall apply to any deferral and/or distribution elections (each, an 
Election
) that may be permitted or required by the Committee pursua
nt to an Award subject to Section 409A:
(a) All Elections must be in writing and specify the amount of the distribution in settlement of an Award being deferred, as well as the time and form of distribution as permitted by this Plan.
37
 
(b) All Elections shall be made by the end of the Participant
s taxable year prior to the year in which services commence for which an Award may be granted to such Participant; provided, however, that if the Award qualifie
s as 
performance-based compensation
for purposes of Section 409A and is based on services performed over a period of at least twelve (12) months, then the Election may be made no later than six (6) months prior to the end of such period.
(c) Elections s
hall continue in effect until a written election to revoke or change such Election is received by the Company, except that a written election to revoke or change such Election must be made prior to the last day for making an Election determined in accorda
n
ce with paragraph (b) above or as permitted by Section 19.3.
19.3
Subsequent Elections
. Any Award subject to Section 409A which
 
permits a subsequent Election to delay the distribution or change the form of distribution in settlement of such Award shall co
mply with the following requirements:
(a) No subsequent Election may take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the subsequent Election is made;
(b) Each subsequent Election related to a distribution in settle
ment of an Award not described in Section 19.4(b), 19.4(c), or 19.4(f) must result in a delay of the distribution for a period of not less than five (5) years from the date such distribution would otherwise have been made; and
(c) No subsequent Election r
elated to a distribution pursuant to Section 19.4(d) shall be made less than twelve (12) months prior to the date of the first scheduled payment under such distribution.
19.4
Distributions Pursuant to Deferral Elections
. No distribution in
 
settlement of a
n Award subject to Section 409A may commence earlier than:
(a) Separation from service (as determined by the Secretary of the United States Treasury);
  
(b)
The date the Participant becomes Disabled (as defined below);
  
(c)
Death;
  
(d)
A specified time (or pursuant to a fixed schedule) that is either
(i)
 
specified by the Committee upon the grant of an Award and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award or (ii) specified by the Participant in an Election complying with the
requirements of Section 19.2 and/or 19.3, as applicable;
  
(e)
To the extent provided by the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, a
change in the ownership or effective control or the Company or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the C
ompany; or
  
(f)
The occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency (as defined below).
38
 
Notwithstanding anything else herein to the contrary, to the extent that a Participant is a 
Specified Employee
(as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i)) of the Company, no distribution pursuant to Section 19.4(a) in settlement of an Award subject to Section 409A may be made before the date which is six (6) months after such Participant
s date of separation from se
r
vice, or, if earlier, the date of the Participant
s death.
19.5
Unforeseeable Emergency
. The Committee shall have the authority to
 
provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Award subject to Section 409A for distribution in settlement of all or a porti
on of such Award in the event that a Participant establishes, to the satisfaction of the Committee, the occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency. In such event, the amount(s) distributed with respect to such Unforeseeable Emergency cannot exceed the amoun
t
s necessary to satisfy such Unforeseeable Emergency plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of such distribution(s), after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or
c
ompensation by insurance or otherwise or by liquidation of the Participant
s assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship). All distributions with respect to an Unforeseeable Emergency shall be made
 
in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the Committee
s determination that an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred.
The occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency shall be judged and determined by the Committee. The Committee
s decision with respect
to whether an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred and the manner in which, if at all, the distribution in settlement of an Award shall be altered or modified, shall be final, conclusive, and not subject to approval or appeal.
19.6
Disabled
. The Committee
shall have the authority to provide in any
 
Award subject to Section 409A for distribution in settlement of such Award in the event that the Participant becomes Disabled. A Participant shall be considered 
Disabled
if either:
(a) the Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than
t
welve (12) months, or
(b) the Participant is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving
income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Participant
s employer.
All distributions payable by reason of a Participant becoming Disabled shall be paid in a lump s
um or in periodic installments as established by the Participant
s Election, commencing as soon as practicable following the date the Participant becomes Disabled. If the Participant has made no Election with respect to distributions upon becoming Disable
d
, all such distributions shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the date the Participant becomes Disabled.
19.7
Death
. If a Participant dies before complete distribution of amounts
 
payable upon settlement of an Award subject to Secti
on 409A, such undistributed amounts shall
 
39
 
 
be distributed to his or her beneficiary under the distribution method for death established by the Participant
s Election as soon as administratively possible f
ollowing receipt by the Committee of satisfactory notice and confirmation of the Participant
s death. If the Participant has made no Election with respect to distributions upon death, all such distributions shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicab
l
e following the date of the Participant
s death.
19.8  
No Acceleration of Distributions
. Notwithstanding anything to the
 
contrary herein, this Plan does not permit the acceleration of the time or schedule of any distribution under this Plan, except as provided by Section 409A and/or the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury.
20.    
M
ISCELLANEOUS
 
P
ROVISIONS
.
20.1
Repurchase Rights
. Shares issued under the Plan may be subject to one
 
or more repurchase options, or other conditions and restrictions as determined by the Committee in its discretion at the time the Award is granted. The Company shall have the right to assign at any time
any repurchase right it may have, whether or not such right is then exercisable, to one or more persons as may be selected by the Company. Upon request by the Company, each Participant shall execute any agreement evidencing such transfer restrictions prio
r
to the receipt of shares of Stock hereunder and shall promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares of Stock acquired hereunder for the placement on such certificates of appropriate legends evidencing any such transfer rest
r
ictions.
20.2   
Forfeiture Events
.
(a) The Committee may specify in an Award Agreement that the Participant
s rights, payments, and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture, or recoupment upon the occurren
ce of specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events may include, but shall not be limited to, termination of Service for Cause or any act by a Participant, whether before or after term
i
nation of Service, that would constitute Cause for termination of Service.
(b) If the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company, as a result of misconduct, with any financial reporting requir
ement under the securities laws, any Participant who knowingly or through gross negligence engaged in the misconduct, or who knowingly or through gross negligence failed to prevent the misconduct, and any Participant who is one of the individuals subject
t
o automatic forfeiture under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, shall reimburse the Company the amount of any payment in settlement of an Award earned or accrued during the twelve - (12-) month period following the first public issuance or fil
i
ng with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (whichever first occurred) of the financial document embodying such financial reporting requirement.
20.3
Provision of Information
. Each Participant shall be given access to
 
information concerning the Company equivalent to that information generally made available to the Company
s common stockholders.
40
 
20.4
Rights as Employee, Consultant or Director
. No person, even though
 
eligible pursuant to Section 5, shall have a right to be selected as a Participant, or, having been so selected, to be selected again as a Participant. Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan shall confer on any Participant a right to rema
i
n an Employee, Consultant or Director or interfere with or limit in any way any right of a Participating Company to terminate the Participant
s Service at any time. To the extent that an Employee of a Participating Company other than the Company receives
a
n Award under the Plan, that Award shall in no event be understood or interpreted to mean that the Company is the Employee
s employer or that the Employee has an employment relationship with the Company.
20.5
Rights as a Stockholder
. A Participant shall h
ave no rights as a
 
stockholder with respect to any shares covered by an Award until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjust
ment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such shares are issued, except as provided in Section 4.4 or another provision of the Plan.
20.6
Delivery of Title to Shares
. Subject to any governing rules or regulations,
 
the Company shall issue or cause to be issued the shares of Stock acquired pursuant to an Award and shall deliver such shares to or for the benefit of the Participant by means of one or more of the following
: (a) by delivering to the Participant evidence of book entry shares of Stock credited to the account of the Participant, (b) by depositing such shares of Stock for the benefit of the Participant with any broker with which the Participant has an account r
e
lationship, or (c) by delivering such shares of Stock to the Participant in certificate form.
20.7
Fractional Shares
. The Company shall not be required to issue fractional
 
shares upon the exercise or settlement of any Award.
20.8
Retirement and Welfare Plans
. Neither Awards made under this Plan
 
nor shares of Stock or cash paid pursuant to such Awards may be included as 
compensation
for purposes of computing the benefits payable to any Participant under any Participating Company
s
retirement plans (both qualified and non-qualified) or welfare benefit plans unless such other plan expressly provides that such compensation shall be taken into account in computing a Participant
s benefit.
20.9
Beneficiary Designation
. Subject to local
laws and procedures, each
 
Participant may file with the Company a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any benefit under the Plan to which the Participant is entitled in the event of such Participant
s death before he or she receives any
or all of such benefit. Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participant
s lifetime. If a married Participant designates a beneficiary other than the Participant
s spouse, the effectiveness of such designation may be subject to the consent of the Participant
s spouse. If a Participant dies without an effective designation of a
 
beneficiary who is living at the time of the Participant
s death, the Company will pay any remaining unpaid benefits to the Participant
s legal representative.
41
 
20.10
Severability
. If any one or more of the provisions (or any part thereof) of
 
this Plan shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such provision shall be modified so as to make it valid, legal and enforceable, and the validity, legality and enforce
ability of the remaining provisions (or any part thereof) of the Plan shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
20.11
No Constraint on Corporate Action
. Nothing in this Plan shall be
 
construed to: (a) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Com
pany
s or another Participating Company
s right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its
 
business or assets; or, (b) limit the right or power of the Company or another Participating Company to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
20.12
Unfunded Obligation
. Participants shall have the status of general
 
unsecu
red creditors of the Company. Any amounts payable to Participants pursuant to the Plan shall be unfunded and unsecured obligations for all purposes, including, without limitation, Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. No Particip
a
ting Company shall be required to segregate any monies from its general funds, or to create any trusts, or establish any special accounts with respect to such obligations. The Company shall retain at all times beneficial ownership of any investments, incl
u
ding trust investments, which the Company may make to fulfill its payment obligations hereunder. Any investments or the creation or maintenance of any trust or any Participant account shall not create or constitute a trust or fiduciary relationship betwee
n
the Committee or any Participating Company and a Participant, or otherwise create any vested or beneficial interest in any Participant or the Participant
s creditors in any assets of any Participating Company. The Participants shall have no claim against
 
any Participating Company for any changes in the value of any assets which may be invested or reinvested by the Company with respect to the Plan.
20.13
Choice of Law
. Except to the extent governed by applicable federal law,
 
the validity, interpretation, c
onstruction and performance of the Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to its conflict of law rules.
 
42
PLAN HISTORY AND NOTES TO COMPANY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
E*TRADE Financial Media Relations Contact
Susan Hickey
646-521-4675
susan.hickey@etrade.com
E*TRADE Financial Investor Relations Contact
Brett Goodman
646-521-4406
brett.goodman@etrade.com
 E*TRADE Financial Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC) announced the results of its Annual Meeting of Stockholders held today, May 13, 2010, in Arlington, VA. Over 79 percent of all outstanding shares as of the record date were voted.
New York, NY, May 13, 2010
Stockholders authorized the Companys Board of Directors to effect a 1-for-10 reverse stock split of the outstanding shares of the Companys common stock. The Company expects the reverse stock split to become effective in early June.
Stockholders also voted in favor of the election of the five directors standing for election; a proposal to increase the shares authorized under the Companys 2005 Equity Incentive Plan and to make certain other changes to the plan; and the selection of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys independent public accounting firm.
Ronald D. Fisher, President, SoftBank Holdings, Inc.; Steven J. Freiberg, Chief Executive Officer, E*TRADE Financial Corporation; Kenneth C. Griffin, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Citadel Investment Group, L.L.C.; and Donna L. Weaver, Chairman of MxSecure, Inc.; were each re-elected to Class II of the Companys Board of Directors for a term that will end at the Companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2013. Joseph M. Velli, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BNY ConvergEx Group, LLC, was re-elected to Class I of the Companys Board of Directors for a term that will end at the Companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2011.
About E*TRADE Financial
The E*TRADE Financial family of companies provides financial services including online brokerage and related banking products and services to retail investors. Specific business segments include Trading and Investing and Balance Sheet Management. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member FINRA/SIPC). Bank products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.  ETFC-G
Important Notices
E*TRADE Financial, E*TRADE and the E*TRADE logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of E*TRADE Financial Corporation.
 2010 E*TRADE Financial Corporation. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
 


