FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20100722163042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): July 22, 2010
E*TRADE Financial Corporation
(Exact name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
(646) 521-4300
(
Registrants Telephone Number, including Area Code)
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 2.02.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On July 22, 2010, the Company announced its second quarter earnings for fiscal year 2010. A copy of the Companys press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
As of June 30, 2010, a cumulative total of $1.0 billion of the Companys convertible debentures have been converted which results in approximately 220 million of common shares outstanding. The remaining face value of convertible debt as of June 30, 2010 is approximately $710 million, which can be converted into approximately 69 million shares of common stock.
The information furnished shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or incorporated by reference into any filing thereunder or under the Securities Act of 1933 unless expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d)           Exhibits
99.1   Earnings Press Release, dated July 22, 2010
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
E*TRADE Financial Corporation Announces Second Quarter 2010 Results
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 22, 2010--E*TRADE Financial Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC):
Second Quarter Results
Net income of $35 million, or $0.12 per share, improved from $0.25 loss per share in prior quarter and $2.16 loss per share in second quarter 2009
Total net revenue of $534 million, down from $537 million in prior quarter and $621 million in second quarter 2009
Provision for loan losses of $166 million, down from $268 million in prior quarter and $405 million in second quarter 2009
Special mention delinquencies (30-89 days) down by 14 percent from prior quarter; at-risk delinquencies (30-179 days) down by 13 percent from prior quarter
Daily Average Revenue Trades (DARTs) of 170,000, up 10 percent from prior quarter and down 16 percent from second quarter 2009
Net new brokerage assets of $2.1 billion, down from $2.2 billion in prior quarter and $2.3 billion in second quarter 2009
Capital and Liquidity Metrics
Bank Tier 1 capital to total adjusted assets ratio increased 44 basis points from prior quarter to 7.27%; Bank Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio increased 32 basis points from prior quarter to 13.39%
Excess risk-based total capital (excess to the regulatory well-capitalized threshold) of $1.0 billion
Bank generated $142 million of Tier 1 capital and $61 million of risk-based capital
Corporate cash of $481 million
E*TRADE Financial Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC) today announced results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2010, reporting net income of $35 million, or $0.12 per share, compared with a net loss of $48 million, or $0.25 loss per share, in the prior quarter and a net loss of $143 million, or $2.16 loss per share, in the second quarter of 2009. The Company reported total net revenue of $534 million for the second quarter, compared with $537 million in the prior quarter and $621 million in the year ago period.
The second quarter marked an important milestone for E*TRADE as we reported our first quarterly profit in three years, said Steven Freiberg, Chief Executive Officer of E*TRADE Financial Corporation. Our results were supported by strength in our brokerage business, including growth in DARTs, new accounts, and margin receivables; continued improvement in loan performance trends; prudent expense management; and effective balance sheet strategies in an environment of declining interest rates. Freiberg continued, We are proud of our second quarter performance and remain focused on positioning the Company for sustainable profitability and growth. At the same time, our significant progress increases our flexibility to invest in products, services, and technologies that should enhance our customer franchise and allow us to better realize growth opportunities to drive shareholder value.
E*TRADE reported DARTs of 170,000 during the quarter, a 10 percent increase from the prior quarter and a 16 percent decrease versus the same quarter a year ago. At quarter end, the Company reported 4.2 million customer accounts, which included 2.6 million brokerage accounts. Net new brokerage accounts were 18,000 during the quarter, compared with 2,000 in the prior quarter. Excluding 3,000 accounts closed in connection with the Companys international restructuring, the Company added 21,000 net new brokerage accounts during the quarter.
The Company ended the quarter with $144 billion in total customer assets, compared to $159 billion in the prior quarter and $128 billion in the prior year.
During the quarter, net new brokerage assets were positive $2.1 billion, totaling $4.3 billion year to date. Brokerage-related cash decreased by $1.1 billion to $20.7 billion during the period, while customers were net buyers of approximately $3.4 billion of securities. Customer security holdings decreased by eight percent, or $8.1 billion, as the markets declined between 10 and 12 percent during the quarter. Margin receivables increased 26 percent sequentially from $3.8 billion to $4.8 billion.
Net new customer assets were positive $0.8 billion, reflecting $2.1 billion in net new brokerage assets, offset by a $1.3 billion decline in savings and other bank-related customer deposits.
Total net revenue of $534 million declined $3 million from the prior quarter and $87 million versus the year ago period.
Net operating interest income for the second quarter was $302 million, reflecting a net interest spread of 2.89 percent on average interest-earning assets of $41.0 billion. The $18 million sequential decrease in net interest income resulted from a $1.4 billion decline in average interest-earning assets and a seven basis point decline in the net interest spread.
Commissions, fees and service charges, principal transactions, and other revenue in the second quarter were $195 million, compared with $196 million in the first quarter. This reflected the sequential increase in trading activity offset by a $0.33 decline in the average commission per trade, from $11.38 to $11.05.
Total net revenue this quarter also included $37 million of net gains on loans and securities, including a net impairment of $12 million.
Total operating expense decreased seven percent, or $20 million, to $276 million from the prior quarter, including lower compensation, advertising, and restructuring costs.
The Company continued to make progress during the second quarter in reducing balance sheet risk as its loan portfolio contracted by $1.2 billion from the prior quarter, including $0.2 billion in loan securitizations and $0.7 billion related to prepayments or scheduled principal reductions.
Second quarter provision for loan losses decreased $102 million from the prior quarter to $166 million. Net charge-offs in the quarter were $225 million, a decrease of $63 million from the prior quarter. These declines included a $15 million benefit of a legal settlement related to purchased loans. The allowance for loan losses declined by $59 million to $1.1 billion, or six percent of gross loans receivable, at quarter end.
We are particularly pleased with the progress made during the quarter in reducing the balance sheet and mitigating risk, Freiberg commented. In addition to the prepayments and scheduled principal reductions, we securitized or sold $232 million in loans, accelerating the decline of the loan portfolio. Furthermore, continued efforts to put back loans to sellers resulted in a $20 million legal settlement of loan claims which contributed $15 million to the reduction in the second quarter provision and net charge-offs.
For the Companys entire loan portfolio, special mention delinquencies (30-89 days) declined by 14 percent and at-risk delinquencies (30-179 days) declined by 13 percent in the quarter.
During the quarter, the Bank generated $142 million of Tier 1 capital and $61 million of risk-based capital. As of June 30, 2010, the Company reported Bank Tier 1 capital ratios of 7.27 percent to total adjusted assets and 13.39 percent to risk-weighted assets. The Bank had excess risk-based total capital (, above the level regulators define as well-capitalized) of $1.0 billion at quarter end.
i.e.
Historical metrics and financials through June 2010 can be found on the E*TRADE Financial Investor Relations website at .
https://investor.etrade.com
The Company will host a conference call to discuss the results beginning at 5:00 p.m. EDT today. This conference call will be available to domestic participants by dialing 800-683-1525 and 973-872-3197 for international participants. The conference ID number is 85724635. A live audio webcast and replay of this conference call will also be available at .
https://investor.etrade.com
About E*TRADE Financial
The E*TRADE Financial family of companies provides financial services including online brokerage and related banking products and services to retail investors. Specific business segments include Trading and Investing, and Balance Sheet Management. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member FINRA/SIPC). Bank products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries. ETFC-E
Important Notices
E*TRADE Financial, E*TRADE and the E*TRADE logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of E*TRADE Financial Corporation.
The statements contained in this news release that are forward looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. Such statements include those relating to the ability of the Company to sustain profitability and growth and drive shareholder value. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, potential changes in market activity, anticipated changes in the rate of new customer acquisition, macro trends of the economy in general and the residential real estate market, instability in the consumer credit markets and credit trends, increased mortgage loan delinquency and default rates, portfolio growth, portfolio seasoning and resolution through collections, sales or charge-offs and the potential negative regulatory consequences resulting from the implementation of financial regulatory reform as well as from actions by the Office of Thrift Supervision or other regulators. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the annual, quarterly and current reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and Form 8-K previously filed by E*TRADE Financial Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) (including information in these reports under the caption Risk Factors). Any forward-looking statement included in this release speaks only as of the date of this communication; the Company disclaims any obligation to update any information.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 2010 E*TRADE Financial Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures and Certain Metrics
Management believes that corporate cash, EBITDA, interest coverage, Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses, enterprise net interest income and enterprise interest-earning assets are appropriate measures for evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company. Management believes that adjusting GAAP measures by excluding or including certain items is helpful to investors and analysts who may wish to use some or all of this information to analyze our current performance, prospects and valuation. Management uses non-GAAP information internally to evaluate our operating performance and in formulating our budget for future periods.
Reporting Changes
In the first quarter of 2010, the Company revised its segment financial reporting to reflect the manner in which its chief operating decision maker had begun assessing the Companys performance and making resource allocation decisions. The Company no longer allocates costs associated with certain functions that are centrally managed to its operating segments. These costs are separately reported in a Corporate/Other category.
In addition, the Company now reports FDIC insurance premiums expense in its balance sheet management segment. These expenses were previously reported in its trading and investing segment. Balance sheet management pays the trading and investing segment for the use of its deposits via the deposit transfer pricing arrangement, including a reimbursement of the cost associated with FDIC insurance. This change did not impact the income (loss) before income taxes of either segment as the component of the deposit transfer pricing payment for FDIC insurance premiums expense was removed.
All prior periods have been adjusted to reflect the Companys 1-for-10 reverse stock split that became effective in the second quarter of 2010. See endnote (1) for line items that have been impacted by this change.
Corporate Cash
Corporate cash represents cash held at the parent company as well as cash held in certain subsidiaries that can distribute cash to the parent company without any regulatory approval. The Company believes that corporate cash is a useful measure of the parent companys liquidity as it is the primary source of capital above and beyond the capital deployed in our regulated subsidiaries.
EBITDA
EBITDA represents net income (loss) before taxes, depreciation and amortization and corporate interest expense. Management believes that EBITDA provides a useful additional measure of our performance by excluding certain non-cash charges and expenses that are not directly related to the performance of our business.
Interest Coverage
Interest coverage represents EBITDA divided by corporate interest expense. Management believes that by excluding the charges and expenses that are excluded from EBITDA, interest coverage provides a useful additional measure of our ability to continue to meet our interest obligations and our liquidity.
Bank Earnings Before Taxes and Before Credit Losses
Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses represents the pre-tax earnings of E*TRADE Bank Holding Company (Bank), provision for loan losses, gains on loans and securities, net, net impairment and losses on early extinguishment of FHLB advances. See endnote (8) for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the comparable GAAP measure.
This metric shows the amount of earnings that the Bank, after accruing for the interest expense on its trust preferred securities, generates each quarter prior to credit related losses, primarily provision and losses on securities. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is an indicator of the level of credit related losses the Bank can absorb without causing a decline in E*TRADE Banks excess risk-based capital.
Enterprise Net Interest Income
Enterprise net interest income is taxable equivalent basis net operating interest income excluding corporate interest income, corporate interest expense and interest earned on customer cash held by third parties. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is a measure of the net operating interest income generated by our core operations.
Enterprise Interest-Earning Assets
Enterprise interest-earning assets consists of the primary interest-earning assets of the Company and includes: loans receivable, margin receivables, available-for-sale mortgage-backed and investment securities, held-to-maturity securities, trading securities, cash and stock borrow and other balances that earn interest for the Company. Management believes that this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is a measure of the primary assets from which the Company generates net operating interest income.
It is important to note these metrics and other non-GAAP measures may involve judgment by management and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, net income (loss), consolidated statements of cash flows, or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. For additional information on the adjustments to these non-GAAP measures, please see our financial statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition that will be included in the periodic report the Company expects to file with the SEC with respect to the financial periods discussed herein.
ENDNOTES
(1) All prior periods have been adjusted to reflect the Companys 1-for-10 reverse stock split that became effective in the second quarter of 2010. Financial information impacted by this capital change includes EPS, weighted average shares, outstanding shares, common stock and APIC.
(2) Because the Company reported a net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2009, and the six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, the calculation of diluted net loss per share does not include common stock equivalents as they are anti-dilutive and would result in a reduction of net loss per share.
(3) Reflects elimination of transactions between Trading and Investing and Balance Sheet Management segments, which includes deposit and intercompany transfer pricing arrangements.
(4) Amounts and percentages may not calculate due to rounding.
(5) Operating margin is the percentage of net revenue that results in income (loss) before other income (expense) and income taxes. The percentage is calculated by dividing income (loss) before other income (expense) and income taxes by total net revenue.
(6) Corporate cash is an indicator of the liquidity at the parent company. Corporate cash for June 30, 2009 included $19.7 million, which was invested in The Primary Fund and included as a receivable in the other assets line item as The Reserve Fund had not indicated when the remaining funds would be distributed back to investors. We received the final distribution from The Primary Fund during Q110.
(7) Enterprise net interest spread is the taxable equivalent rate earned on average enterprise interest-earning assets less the rate paid on average enterprise interest-bearing liabilities, excluding corporate interest-earning assets and liabilities and customer cash held by third parties.
(8) Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses represents the pre-tax earnings of E*TRADE Banks holding company, ETB Holdings, Inc. (Bank), provision for loan losses, gains on loans and securities, net, net impairment and losses on early extinguishment of FHLB advances. This metric shows the amount of earnings that the Bank, after accruing for the interest expense on its trust preferred securities, generates each quarter prior to credit related losses, primarily provision and loss on securities. Management believes this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors and analysts as it is an indicator of the level of credit related losses the Bank can absorb without causing a decline in E*TRADE Banks excess risk-based capital. Below is a reconciliation of Bank earnings before taxes and before credit losses from loss before income taxes:
(a)
Excess risk-based capital is the excess capital that E*TRADE Bank has compared to the regulatory minimum well-capitalized threshold.
(a)
Non-bank loss represents all of the Companys subsidiaries, including Corporate, but excluding the Bank.
(b)
(9) These metrics have been updated for prior periods to exclude international local activity.
(10) Net new customer assets are total inflows to all new and existing customer accounts less total outflows from all closed and existing customer accounts. The net new banking assets and net new brokerage assets metrics treat asset flows between E*TRADE entities in the same manner as unrelated third party accounts.
(11) Capital ratios are at the E*TRADE Bank level. The ratios and excess capital amounts are Q210 estimates based on the regulatory minimum well-capitalized threshold. Below is a reconciliation of beginning E*TRADE Bank excess risk-based capital to ending E*TRADE Bank excess risk-based capital for the quarterly periods presented:
The capital release from loan portfolio run-off includes the decrease in risk-based capital required for our one- to four-family, home equity and consumer loan portfolios.
(a)
Represents cash flows to and from the parent company.
(b)
Represents the capitalimpact related to changes in other risk-weighted assets.
(c)
(12) Includes unpaid principal balances and premiums (discounts).
(13) The TDR loan performance detail is a subset of the Companys total loan performance.
(14) The total expected loss on TDRs includes both the previously recorded charge-offs and the specific valuation allowance.
(15) Excludes loans to customers on margin.
(16) Includes segregated cash balances.
(17) Gross-up for tax-exempt securities.
(18) Includes interest earned on average customer assets of $3.1 billion, $3.1 billion and $2.8 billion for the quarters ended June 30, 2010, March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2009, respectively, held by parties outside E*TRADE Financial, including third party money market funds and sweep deposit accounts at unaffiliated financial institutions.
CONTACT: Susan Hickey, 646-521-4675 or Brett Goodman, 646-521-4406
E*TRADE Financial Media Relations Contact
susan.hickey@etrade.com
E*TRADE Financial Investor Relations Contact
brett.goodman@etrade.com


