FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20110513165200.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07.                      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
At the Companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 12, 2011, stockholders considered and approved four proposals, each of which is described in more detail in the Companys definitive proxy statement filed on March 30, 2011 for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
The vote results detailed below represent the final results as certified by the Inspector of Elections:
Proposal 1
 
Election of two Class I directors for a term that will end at the Companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2014.  As previously reported in the Company's 8-K filed on April 6, 2011, Robert A. Druskin notified the Company after the proxy statement was filed that he would not be able to stand for re-election to the Companys Board of Directors upon expiration of his term at the Companys annual meeting of stockholders in May 2011, due to the time required by other business commitments.
 
Proposal 2
 
Approval, by non-binding advisory vote, of the compensation paid by the Company to its Named Executive Officers.
 
Proposal 3
 
Selection, by a non-binding advisory vote, of the frequency with which stockholders of the Company will be asked to approve, by a non-binding advisory vote, the compensation paid by the Company to its Named Executive Officers.
 
 
In line with the advisory voting by our stockholders, the Company has decided that it will include an advisory shareowner vote on executive compensation in its proxy materials every year until the next required advisory vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on executive compensation.
 
Proposal 4
 
Ratification of the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for the Company for 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
The Company press release related to the foregoing events is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) .
Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
E*TRADE Financial Media Relations Contact
Susan Hickey
646-521-4675
susan.hickey@etrade.com
E*TRADE Financial Investor Relations Contact
Brett Goodman
646-521-4406
brett.goodman@etrade.com
E*TRADE Financial Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC) announced the results of its Annual Meeting of Stockholders held today, May 12, 2011, in New York, NY. Over 80 percent of all outstanding shares as of the record date were voted. Stockholders voted in favor of the re-election of two directors and the selection of Deloitte & Touche as auditors for 2011. In addition, the stockholders supported the companys non-binding resolutions on the company executive compensation policies and practices and the Board of Directors recommendation to hold an advisory vote on executive compensation each year.
New York, NY, May 12, 2011
Frederick W. Kanner, Of Counsel, Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, and Joseph M. Velli, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BNY ConvergEx Group, LLC, were re-elected to Class I of the companys Board of Directors for a term that will end at the companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2014.
It was also announced that, effective immediately, Steven Freiberg, the companys CEO, will assume the role of Chairman of the Board of Directors on an interim basis, following the scheduled departure of Robert Druskin. The Board is engaged in a search to find a new independent director and will appoint a non-executive Chairperson following the completion of the search.
About E*TRADE Financial
The E*TRADE Financial family of companies provides financial services including online brokerage and related banking products and services to retail investors. Specific business segments include Trading and Investing and Balance Sheet Management. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member FINRA/SIPC). Bank products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries. More information is available at .
www.etrade.com
Important Notices
E*TRADE Financial, E*TRADE and the E*TRADE logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of E*TRADE Financial Corporation. ETFC-G
 2011 E*TRADE Financial Corporation. All rights reserved.
 
 
 


