FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20110428172345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 25, 2011, E*TRADE Financial Corporation (the "Company") entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") by and among the Company, Citadel Equity Fund Ltd., as selling stockholder (the "Selling Stockholder"), and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as underwriter (the "Underwriter"), pursuant to which the Selling Stockholder agreed to sell to the Underwriter 27,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock at a price of $16.38 per share. The Company will not receive any proceeds from this offering.
After giving effect to the sale of the shares by the Selling Stockholder, Citadel LLC ("Citadel"), of which the Selling Stockholder is an affiliate, will beneficially own 9.8% of the Company's common stock (assuming conversion of all Class A Senior Convertible Debentures due 2019 held by Citadel, based on information provided by Citadel).
The offering was registered pursuant to the Company's shelf registration statement (the "Registration Statement") on Form S-3 (File No. 333-158636) and a related prospectus supplement, each filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. A copy of the Underwriting Agreement is filed as Exhibit 1.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement. The description of the Underwriting Agreement in this report is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Underwriting Agreement.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION VERSION
April 25, 2011
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
1585 Broadway
New York, New York 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Citadel Equity Fund Ltd., a stockholder (the "") of E*TRADE Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to sell to Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (the "") 27,500,000 shares (the "") of the Company's common stock, $0.01 par value per share (the "") subject to the terms and conditions described below (this "").
Selling Stockholder
Company
Underwriter
Shares
Common Stock
Agreement
The Company and the Selling Stockholder hereby confirm their agreement with the Underwriter concerning the purchase and sale of the Shares, as follows:
The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-158636) for the registration of the Shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the ""); and such registration statement sets forth the material terms of the offering, sale and plan of distribution of the Shares and contains additional information concerning the Company and its business. As used herein, "" means such registration statement, as amended at the time of such registration statement's effectiveness for purposes of Section 11 of the Securities Act, as such section applies to the Underwriter, including (1) all documents filed as a part thereof or incorporated, or deemed to be incorporated, by reference therein and (2) any information contained or incorporated by reference in a prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, to the extent such information is deemed, pursuant to Rule 430B or Rule 430C under the Securities Act, to be part of the registration statement at the effective time. "" means the prospectus dated April 17, 2009, filed as part of the Registration Statement, including the documents incorporated by reference therein as of the date of such prospectus; "" means each prospectus included in such registration statement (and any amendments thereto) before effectiveness, any prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(a) under the Securities Act and the prospectus included in the Registration Statement at the time of its effectiveness that omits Rule 430 Information; "" means the prospectus (including the Basic Prospectus) in the form first used (or made available upon request of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173 under the Securities Act) in connection with confirmation of sales of the
Commission
Securities Act
Registration Statement
Basic Prospectus
Preliminary Prospectus
Prospectus
Shares; and "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Basic Prospectus or the Prospectus shall, unless otherwise stated, be deemed to refer to and include the documents, if any, incorporated, or deemed to be incorporated, by reference therein (the ""), including, unless the context otherwise requires, the documents, if any, filed as exhibits to such Incorporated Documents. Any reference herein to the terms "amend," "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus or any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus shall, unless stated otherwise, be deemed to refer to and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "") on or after the initial effective date of the Registration Statement or the date of the Basic Prospectus, the Prospectus or such Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, and deemed to be incorporated therein by reference. At or prior to the Time of Sale (as defined below), the Company had prepared the following information (collectively with the information set forth on (the ""), the ""): a Preliminary Prospectus dated April 25, 2011 (the "") and each "free-writing prospectus" (as defined pursuant to Rule 405 under the Securities Act) listed on hereto (the "").
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
Incorporated Documents
Exchange Act
Annex A
Pricing Date Information
Pricing Disclosure Package
Pricing Prospectus
Annex B
Pricing FWPs
"" means 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on April 25, 2011.
Time of Sale
1. .
Purchase of the Shares by the Underwriter
(a) The Selling Stockholder agrees to sell the Shares to the Underwriter as provided in this Agreement, and the Underwriter, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, agrees to purchase the Shares from the Selling Stockholder at a purchase price per share of $16.38 (and, if applicable, in the case of Class A Debentures, the aggregate amount of shares of Common Stock issuable on conversion of such Class A Debentures, multiplied by such price per share) (the "").
Purchase Price
(b) The Company and the Selling Stockholder understand that the Underwriter intends to make a public offering of the Shares as soon after the effectiveness of this Agreement as in its judgment is advisable, and initially to offer the Shares on the terms set forth in the Prospectus. The Company and the Selling Stockholder acknowledge and agree that the Underwriter may offer and sell Shares to or through any affiliate of the Underwriter.
(c) Payment for the Shares shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the account specified by the Selling Stockholder to the Underwriter in the case of the Shares, at the offices of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, 425 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017 at 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on April 29, 2011, or at such other time or place on the same or such other date, not later than the fifth business day thereafter, as the Company, the Underwriter and the Selling Stockholder may agree upon in writing. The time and date of such payment for the Shares is referred to herein as the "".
Closing Date
Payment for the Shares to be purchased on the Closing Date shall be made against delivery to the Underwriter of the Shares to be purchased on such date with any transfer taxes
 
payable in connection with the sale of such Shares duly paid by the Company. At the option of the Underwriter, the Selling Stockholder shall deliver, in lieu of such number of Shares as the Underwriter may specify by written notice delivered not later than 6:00 P.M. on April 26, 2011, Class A Senior Convertible Debentures due 2019 (the "") to the Underwriter in an aggregate principal amount convertible on the date of such delivery into such specified number of the Shares; the aggregate principal amount of Class A Debentures that may be requested shall not exceed the lesser of an aggregate principal amount convertible on the date of such delivery into (i) 7% of the 248,262,109 shares of the Common Stock of the Company outstanding and (ii) the amount of Shares to be purchased by the Underwriters that have not been allocated to investors as of 6:00 P.M. on April 26, 2011. Delivery of the Shares (and Class A Debentures, if applicable) shall be made at such times and in such quantities on the Closing Date as the Underwriter shall instruct (as described in the next paragraph) through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company (""), unless the Underwriter shall otherwise instruct. The Shares (and Class A Debentures, if applicable) will be made eligible for book entry delivery through the facilities of DTC to securities accounts of the Underwriter not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the business day prior to the Closing Date.
Class A Debentures
provided
that
DTC
The Selling Stockholder will deliver the Shares (and Class A Debentures) to the Underwriter on the Closing Date in one or more tranches, at the direction of and only upon oral notice from the Underwriter with respect to each tranche (each, a ""). Except as set forth below, in no event shall the Selling Stockholder deliver Shares in a single tranche in excess of the lesser of (i) 9.9% of the outstanding Common Stock of the Company (calculated as the quotient of (x) the number of Shares to be delivered in such tranche and (y) 248,262,109 shares of the Common Stock of the Company outstanding) (the "") and (ii) the number of Shares specified in the Purchase Notice for such tranche. Each Purchase Notice shall specify the number of Shares (and Class A Debentures) to be delivered to the Underwriter. After the initial Purchase Notice, each subsequent Purchase Notice shall be delivered upon the Underwriter reselling Shares such that, immediately following such resale, the total number of shares of Common Stock then beneficially owned by the Underwriter does not exceed the 9.9% Limit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) if the Underwriter has not delivered Purchase Notices for delivery of all Shares (either directly or by delivering Class A Debentures) by 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Closing Date, then the Selling Stockholder shall be permitted to deliver unconverted Class A Debentures in an aggregate principal amount convertible on the date of such delivery into all remaining Shares in a single tranche immediately thereafter and (ii) the provisions of this Section 1(d) shall in no way otherwise affect the Underwriter's obligations to purchase the Shares pursuant to, and subject to the terms of, this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, if the Underwriter receives Class A Debentures in lieu of Shares pursuant to this Agreement, the Underwriter shall not offer, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of such debentures (except to the conversion agent under the Debenture Documents (as defined herein) for conversion) without the prior written approval of the Company.
Purchase Notice
9.9% Limit
2. [Reserved]
3. . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the Underwriter and the Selling Stockholder, on and as of (i) the Time of Sale and (ii) the Closing Date, as applicable (each such date listed in (i) and (ii), a ""), as follows:
Representations, Warranties and Agreements of the Company
Representation Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any subsidiary delivered to the Underwriter or to counsel to the Underwriter pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement
 
shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company to the Underwriter as to the matters covered thereby.
4. . The Selling Stockholder represents and warrants to the Underwriter and the Company that:
Representations and Warranties of the Selling Stockholder
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. . The Company hereby agrees with the Underwriter as follows:
Certain Covenants of the Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. . The Selling Stockholder covenants and agrees with the Underwriter that:
Further Agreements of the Selling Stockholder
(a) It will deliver to the Underwriter prior to or at the Closing Date a properly completed and executed United States Treasury Department Form W-8BEN (or other applicable form or statement specified by the Treasury Department regulations in lieu thereof).
(b) It will convert that number of Convertible Debentures necessary to deliver any Shares to the Underwriter; subject to the last two paragraphs of Section 1 hereof.
7. . The Underwriter covenants and agrees with the Company to offer, sell and distribute the Shares in a "widely dispersed public offering" as specified by and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Second Supplemental Indenture (the "") to the Indenture, dated the date hereof, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee.
Further Agreements of the Underwriter
Second Supplemental Indenture
8. The obligation of the Underwriter to purchase the Shares and Class A Debentures, if applicable, on the Closing Date as provided herein is subject to the following conditions:
Conditions of Underwriter's Obligations.
(i) The respective representations, warranties and agreements on the part of the Company and the Selling Stockholder herein contained or contained in any certificate of an officer or officers of the Company and of the Selling Stockholder delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof shall be true and correct in all respects.
 
(ii) Each of the Company and the Selling Stockholder shall have performed and observed its respective covenants and other obligations hereunder in all material respects.
(iii) Trading in the Common Stock on the Exchange shall not have been suspended.
(iv) From the date of this Agreement, no event or condition of a type described in Section 3(e) hereof shall have occurred or shall exist, which event or condition is not disclosed in the Pricing Disclosure Package (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto) and the Prospectus (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto), the effect of which in the reasonable judgment of the Underwriter makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Shares or Class A Debentures, if applicable, on the Closing Date on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement, the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
(v) Subsequent to the earlier of (A) the Time of Sale and (B) the execution and delivery of this Agreement (i) no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded any debt securities of or guaranteed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or Standard & Poor's (a division of the McGraw Hill Companies, Inc.) and (ii) neither organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, or has changed its outlook with respect to, its rating of any debt securities of or guaranteed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading).
(vi) (A) No action shall have been taken and no statute, rule, regulation or order shall have been enacted, adopted or issued by any federal, state or foreign governmental or regulatory authority that would, as of the Closing Date, prevent the sale of the Shares or Class A Debentures, if applicable, and (B) no injunction or order of any federal, state or foreign court shall have been issued that would, as of the Closing Date, prevent the sale of the Shares or Class A Debentures, if applicable.
(vii) (A) No order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall be in effect, no proceeding for such purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act shall be pending before or threatened by the Commission and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act shall have been received by the Company; (B) the Prospectus and each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus shall have been timely filed with the Commission under the Securities Act (in the case of any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Securities Act); (C) all requests by the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Underwriter; and (D) no suspension of the qualification of the Shares for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, and no initiation
 
or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes, will have occurred and be in effect.
(viii) No amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement, the Pricing Disclosure Package, the Prospectus or any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus shall have been filed to which the Underwriter shall have reasonably objected in writing.
(ix) All filings with the Commission required by Rule 424 under the Act to have been filed by the Closing Date shall have been made within the applicable time period prescribed for such filing by Rule 424 (without reliance on Rule 424(b)(8)).
(x) The Company shall have delivered to the Underwriter an officer's certificate signed by one of the Company's executive officers, dated the Closing Date, certifying as to the matters set forth in hereto.
Exhibit A
(xi) The Company shall have delivered to the Underwriter the opinion and negative assurance letter of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, special counsel to the Company, addressed to the Underwriter and dated the Closing Date, in the form of hereto.
Exhibit B
(xii) The Company shall have delivered to the Underwriter an opinion of internal counsel of the Company, addressed to the Underwriter and dated the Closing Date, in the form of hereto.
Exhibit C
(xiii) The Underwriter shall have received an opinion and negative assurance letter of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, counsel to the Underwriter, addressed to the Underwriter and dated the Closing Date, addressing such matters as the Underwriter may reasonably request.
(xiv) On the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date, Deloitte & Touche LLP shall have furnished to the Underwriter, at the request of the Company, letters, dated the respective dates of delivery thereof and addressed to the Underwriter, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Underwriter, containing statements and information of the type customarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Disclosure Package and the Prospectus; provided, that the letter delivered on the Closing Date shall use a "cut-off" date no more than three business days prior to such Closing Date.
(xv) The Company shall have delivered to the Underwriter a certificate signed by the Company's corporate secretary, annexing, among other documents, the resolutions duly adopted by the Company's board of directors authorizing the Company's execution of this Agreement and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby, including the issuance and sale of the Shares.
 
(xvi) The "lock-up" agreements, each substantially in the form of hereto, between you and the shareholders, officers and directors of the Company listed on hereto, relating to sales and certain other dispositions of shares of Common Stock or certain other securities, delivered to you on or before the date hereof, shall be in full force and effect on the Closing Date.
Exhibit D
Schedule 2
(xvii) The Company shall have delivered to the Underwriter a certificate, dated the date hereof, signed by the chief financial officer of the Company, related to certain financial information of the Company, to the effect set forth in hereto.
Exhibit E
(xviii) Each of the Company and the Selling Stockholder shall have delivered to the Underwriter such other documents as the Underwriter shall reasonably request.
(xix) The Selling Stockholder shall have delivered to the Underwriter an officer's certificate signed by one of the Selling Stockholder's executive officers, dated the Closing Date, certifying as to the matters set forth in hereto.
Exhibit F
(xx) The Selling Stockholder shall have delivered to the Underwriter the opinions of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, special counsel to the Selling Stockholder, and Maples and Calder, special Cayman counsel to the Selling Stockholder, addressed to the Underwriter and dated the Closing Date, in the forms of and hereto, respectively.
Exhibit G
Exhibit H
All opinions, letters and other documents referred to above shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Underwriter.
9. .
Termination
(a) This Agreement may be terminated in the absolute discretion of the Underwriter if after the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date, if (A) (i) trading generally shall have been materially suspended or materially limited on or by, as the case may be, any of the Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange or NYSE Amex Equities (formerly known as the American Stock Exchange), (ii) trading of any securities of the Company shall have been suspended on any exchange or in any over-the counter market, (iii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities in New York shall have been declared by either federal or New York state authorities, (iv) there shall have occurred any attack on, or outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving, the United States, or any change in financial markets or any calamity or crisis that, in each case, in the Underwriter's judgment, is material and adverse or (v) any material disruption of settlements of securities or clearance services in the United States that would materially impair settlement and clearance with respect to the Shares or Class A Debentures, if applicable, or (B) in the case of any of the events specified in clauses (i) through (v), such event singly or together with any other such event specified in clauses (i) through (v) makes it, in the Underwriter's judgment, impracticable to market the Shares on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Pricing Disclosure
 
Package and the Prospectus. If the Underwriter elects to terminate its obligations pursuant to this Section 9, the Company and the Selling Stockholder shall be notified promptly in writing.
(b) If (i) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 9(a), (ii) the Selling Stockholder for any reason fail to tender the Shares or Class A Debentures, if applicable, for delivery to the Underwriter or (iii) the Underwriter declines to purchase the Shares or Class A Debentures, if applicable, for any reason permitted under this Agreement, the Company agrees to reimburse the Underwriter for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including the fees and expenses of their counsel) reasonably incurred by the Underwriter in connection with this Agreement and the offering contemplated hereby.
10. .
Indemnity and Contribution
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Underwriter, its affiliates, partners, directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls the Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, reasonable out of pocket legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred) that arise out of, or are based upon, (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading or (ii) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Pricing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), the Pricing Date Information, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), any Pricing FWP or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to the Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by or on behalf of the Underwriter expressly for use in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), the Pricing Date Information, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Pricing FWP, it being understood that such information consists solely of the information specified in Section 10(c)).
(b) The Selling Stockholder agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Underwriter, its affiliates, directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls the Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, to the extent such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to the Selling Stockholder furnished to the Company in writing by the Selling Stockholder expressly for use in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), the Pricing Date Information, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or
 
supplement thereto) or any Pricing FWP, it being understood that such information consists solely of the information about the Selling Stockholder set forth in the "Selling Stockholder" section of the Preliminary Prospectus. In no event shall the Selling Stockholder be required pursuant to this Section 10(b) to indemnify the Underwriter in an amount in excess of the net proceeds before expenses received by the Selling Stockholder from the Underwriter for the Shares and Class A Debentures, if applicable.
(c) The Underwriter agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act and the Selling Stockholder to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in Section 10(a) and 10(b), but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to the Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by or on behalf of the Underwriter expressly for use in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), the Pricing Date Information, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Pricing FWP; it being understood that such information shall consist solely of the following: the second, eighth and ninth paragraphs under the heading "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus.
(d) If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to the preceding paragraphs of this Section 10, such person (the "") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the "") in writing; that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under this Section 10 except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under this Section 10. If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person (who shall not, without the consent of the Indemnified Person, be counsel to the Indemnifying Person) to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 10 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or
Indemnified Person
Indemnifying Person
provided
provided, further,
 
potential differing interests between them. It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be paid or reimbursed as they are incurred. Any such separate firm for the Underwriter, its affiliates, partners, directors and officers and any control persons of the Underwriter shall be designated in writing by the Underwriter and any such separate firm for the Company, its directors, its officers who signed the Registration Statement and any control persons of the Company shall be designated in writing by the Company. The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but, if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (x) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (y) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
(e) If the indemnification provided for in Sections 10(a), 10(b) and 10(c) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such Sections, of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Selling Stockholder, on the one hand, and the Underwriter on the other, from the offering of the Shares or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of the Company and the Selling Stockholder, on the one hand, and the Underwriter on the other, in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company and the Selling Stockholder, on the one hand, and the Underwriter on the other, shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the net proceeds (before deducting expenses) received by the Selling Stockholder from the sale of the Shares and Class A Debentures, if applicable, to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriter in connection therewith bear to the aggregate offering price of the Shares. The relative fault of the Company and the Selling Stockholder, on the one hand, and the Underwriter on the other, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company and the Selling Stockholder or by the Underwriter and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
in lieu
(f) The Company, the Selling Stockholder and the Underwriter agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 10 were determined by
pro rata
 
allocation or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in Section 10(e) above. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in Section 10(e) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 10, in no event (i) shall the Underwriter be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriter with respect to the offering of the Shares exceeds the amount of any damages that the Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission and (ii) in no event shall the Selling Stockholder be required to contribute (x) other than to the extent the losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses arose from the written information furnished to the Company by the Selling Stockholder expressly for use in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), the Pricing Date Information, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Pricing FWP, it being understood that the only such information furnished by the Selling Stockholder consists of the information about the Selling Stockholder set forth in the "Selling Stockholder" section of Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, or (y) any amount in excess of the aggregate net proceeds before expenses received by the Selling Stockholder from the Underwriter for the Shares. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
(g) The remedies provided for in this Section 10 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
11. . All notices and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted and confirmed by any standard form of communication, to the applicable party at the addresses indicated below and:
Notices
 
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, 1585
Broadway, New York, New York 10036,
Attention: Equity Syndicate Desk,
with a copy to (which shall not constitute notice):
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
425 Lexington Avenue
New York, New York 10017-3954
Facsimile: (212) 455-2502
Confirmation No.: (212) 455-2000
Attention: Andy R. Keller, Esq.
 
(b) if to the Company:
E*TRADE Financial Corporation
1271 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York 10020
Facsimile: (571) 227-7576 and (703) 236-7397
Attention: General Counsel and Chief Financial Officer
with a copy to (which shall not constitute notice):
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP
1600 El Camino Real
Menlo Park, California 94025
Facsimile: (650) 752-2111, (650) 752-3611 and (650) 752-3601
Confirmation No.: (650) 752-2001 and (650) 752-2011
Attention: Dan Kelly, Esq. and Sarah K. Solum, Esq.
(c) if to the Selling Stockholder, at:
Citadel LLC
131 South Dearborn Street
Chicago, IL 60603
Facsimile: (312) 267-7444
Attention: Adam Cooper
with a copy to (which shall not constitute notice):
Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP
One New York Plaza
New York, NY 10004
Facsimile: (212) 859-4000
Confirmation No.: (212) 859-8000
Attention: Robert Schwenkel, Esq. and Brian Mangino, Esq.
12. . The Company and the Selling Stockholder acknowledge and agree (i) in rendering the services set forth herein, the Underwriter is acting, in its capacity as underwriter, solely in the capacity of an arm's length contractual counterparty to the Company and the Selling Stockholder and not as a financial advisor or fiduciary to, or agent of, the Company, the Selling Stockholder or any of their respective affiliates; (ii) the Underwriter may perform the services contemplated hereby in conjunction with its affiliates, and any of its affiliates performing services hereunder shall be entitled to the benefits and be subject to the terms of this Agreement; (iii) the Underwriter is a securities firm engaged in securities trading and brokerage activities and providing investment banking and financial advisory services, and in the ordinary course of business, the Underwriter and its affiliates may at any time hold long or short positions, and may trade or otherwise effect transactions, for its own respective accounts or the accounts of customers, in debt or equity securities of the Company or its affiliates; and (iv) the Underwriter is not an advisor as to legal, tax, accounting or regulatory matters in any jurisdiction, and the Company and the Selling Stockholder must consult with their own advisors
No Fiduciary Relationship
 
concerning such matters and will each be responsible for making its own independent investigation and appraisal of the transactions contemplated hereby, and the Underwriter shall not have any responsibility or liability to the Company or the Selling Stockholder with respect thereto. Any review of the Company, any of its affiliates, any of the transactions contemplated hereby or any other matters relating to such transactions that is performed by the Underwriter or any of its affiliates will be performed solely for the benefit of the Underwriter, its affiliates and its agents and shall not be on behalf of, or for the benefit of, the Company or the Selling Stockholder, any of their respective affiliates or any other person.
13. .
Governing Law; Construction
(a) This Agreement and any claim, counterclaim or dispute of any kind or nature whatsoever arising out of or in any way relating to this Agreement (each a ""), directly or indirectly, shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Claim
(b) The Section headings in this Agreement have been inserted as a matter of convenience of reference and are not a part of this Agreement.
14. . Except as set forth below, no Claim may be commenced, prosecuted or continued by the Company or the Selling Stockholder in any court other than the courts of the State of New York located in the City and County of New York or in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, which courts shall have nonexclusive jurisdiction over the adjudication of such matters, and the Company and the Selling Stockholder consent to the jurisdiction of such courts and personal service with respect thereto. The Company and the Selling Stockholder irrevocably waive the defense of an inconvenient forum or objections to personal jurisdiction with respect to the maintenance of any legal suit, action or proceeding in any way arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the performance of services hereunder. Each of the Underwriter, the Company and the Selling Stockholder, on its behalf and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on behalf of its stockholders and affiliates, waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding, claim or counterclaim, whether based upon contract, tort or otherwise, in any way arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the performance of services hereunder. The Company and the Selling Stockholder agree that a final and non-appealable judgment in any such action, proceeding or counterclaim brought in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company and the Selling Stockholder and may be enforced in any other courts in the jurisdiction of which the Company or the Selling Stockholder is or may be subject, by suit upon such judgment. Each party not located in the United States irrevocably appoints CT Corporation System as its agent to receive service of process or other legal summons for purposes of any such suit, action or proceeding that may be instituted in any state or federal court in the City and County of New York.
Submission to Jurisdiction, etc
15. . The agreements set forth herein have been and are made solely for the benefit of the Underwriter, the Company and the Selling Stockholder and, to the extent provided in Section 10 hereof, the controlling persons, partners, directors and officers referred to in such section, and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, personal representatives and executors and administrators. No other person, partnership, association or corporation (including
Parties in Interest
 
a purchaser, as such purchaser, from the Underwriter) shall acquire or have any right under or by virtue of this Agreement.
16. . This Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
17. . This Agreement shall be binding upon the Underwriter, the Company, the Selling Stockholder, any other Indemnified Person and their respective successors and assigns and any successor or assign of any substantial portion of the Company's, the Selling Stockholder's and the Underwriter's respective businesses and/or assets.
Successors and Assigns
18. . The respective indemnities, rights of contribution, representations, warranties and agreements of the Company, the Selling Stockholder and the Underwriter contained in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of the Company, the Selling Stockholder or the Underwriter pursuant to this Agreement or any certificate delivered pursuant hereto shall survive the delivery of and payment for the Shares and Class A Debentures, if applicable, and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of the Company, the Selling Stockholder or the Underwriter.
Survival
19. . For purposes of this Agreement, (a) except where otherwise expressly provided, the terms "affiliate" and "significant subsidiary" have the meanings ascribed thereto in Rule 405 under the Securities Act and (b) the term "business day" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City.
Certain Defined Terms
20. . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
Amendments or Waivers
21. . Lending affiliates of the Underwriter may have lending relationships with issuers of securities underwritten or privately placed by the Underwriter. To the extent required under the securities laws, prospectuses and other disclosure documents for securities underwritten or privately placed by the Underwriter will disclose the existence of any such lending relationships and whether the proceeds of the issue will be used to repay debts owed to affiliates of the Underwriter.
Affiliates
The Underwriter and one or more of its respective affiliates may make markets in the Common Stock or other securities of the Company, in connection with which they may buy and sell, as agent or principal, for long or short account, shares of the Common Stock or other securities of the Company, at the same time that the Underwriter is acting as an underwriter pursuant to this Agreement; that the Underwriter acknowledges and agrees that any such transactions are not being, and shall not be deemed to have been, undertaken at the request or direction of, or for the account of, the Company or the Selling Stockholder, and that neither the Company nor the Selling Stockholder has nor shall any of them have control over any decision by the Underwriter and its respective affiliates to enter into any such transactions.
provided
 
In accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the Underwriter is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies its clients, including the Company and the Selling Stockholder, which information may include the name and address of its clients, as well as other information that will allow it to properly identify its clients.
 
If the foregoing correctly sets forth the understanding among the Company, the Selling Stockholder and the Underwriter, please so indicate in the space provided below for the purpose, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall constitute a binding agreement between the Company, the Selling Stockholder and the Underwriter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
ETFC  Signature Page to Underwriting Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
ETFC  Signature Page to Underwriting Agreement
 
Accepted as of the
date first above written:
 
 
 
 
 
ETFC  Signature Page to Underwriting Agreement
 
Annex A
27,500,000 shares.
Annex B
None
Schedule 1
E*TRADE Bank
E*TRADE Clearing LLC
E*TRADE Capital Markets, LLC
E*TRADE Securities LLC
E*TRADE Savings Bank
E*TRADE United Bank
ETB Holdings, Inc.


