FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20111110172511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Today the Company issued the attached press release announcing the determination of its Board of Directors following a review of strategic alternatives.
The Company press release related to the foregoing event is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
(d) .
Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 E*TRADE Financial Corporation (NASDAQ: ETFC) today announced that its Board of Directors has concluded the previously announced review of strategic alternatives.
NEW YORK
, November 10, 2011
 
The strategic review began in early August and was designed to objectively review all strategic alternatives for the company, including a possible sale. With a primary focus on maximizing stockholder value, and consistent with the recommendation of Goldman Sachs & Co., the companys financial advisor, the Board unanimously determined that the continued execution of the companys business plan is currently the best alternative for increasing stockholder value.
 
Following this review by our Board, the management team will continue to execute on our strategy designed to create value for both our stockholders and our customers, said Steven Freiberg, Chief Executive Officer and Interim Chairman of E*TRADE.  We will remain focused on delivering the best investing experience to our customers, strengthening our brokerage business, continuing to improve the performance of our loan portfolio and enhancing our franchise.
 
About E*TRADE Financial
More information is available at .
The E*TRADE Financial family of companies provides financial services including online brokerage and related banking products and services to retail investors. Specific business segments include Trading and Investing and Balance Sheet Management. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member FINRA/SIPC). Bank products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries.
www.etrade.com
 
 
 
Important Notices
E*TRADE Financial, E*TRADE and the E*TRADE logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of E*TRADE Financial Corporation. ETFC-G
The statements contained in this news release that are forward looking are based on current expectations that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, and actual results may differ materially. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the Companys annual, quarterly and current reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K previously filed by E*TRADE Financial Corporation with the SEC (including information under the caption Risk Factors). Any forward-looking statement included in this release speaks only as of the date of this communication; the Company disclaims any obligation to update any information.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 2011 E*TRADE Financial Corporation. All rights reserved.
 
E*TRADE Financial Media Relations Contact
Susan Hickey
646-521-4675
susan.hickey@etrade.com
E*TRADE Financial Investor Relations Contact
Brett Goodman
646-521-4406
brett.goodman@etrade.com
 


