FILE:ETFC/ETFC-8K-20120511160720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
Effective May 10, 2012, stockholders of E*TRADE Financial Corporation (the "Company") approved an amendment to the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation ("Charter") to declassify the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"). The text of the amendment is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company's Board had conditionally approved, subject to stockholder approval of the amendment to the Company's Charter described above, an amendment to the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws to further implement the declassification of the Company's Board. This amendment to the Company's Bylaws became effective May 10, 2012. The text of the amendment is filed as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
At the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 10, 2012, stockholders considered four proposals, each of which is described in more detail in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed on March 30, 2012 for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
The vote results detailed below represent the final results as certified by the Inspector of Elections:
Proposal 1
Amendment to the Company's Charter to declassify the Board.
 
Proposal 2
Election of five directors for a term, resultant of the approval of Proposal 1, that will end at the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2013.
 
Proposal 3
Approval, by a non-binding advisory vote, of compensation paid by the Company to its Named Executive Officers.
 
Proposal 4
Ratification of the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for the Company for 2012.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On May 9, 2012, the Company's Board approved amendments to each of the Company's Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee Charter, Governance Committee Charter and Risk Oversight Committee Charter.
The Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee Charter, Governance Committee Charter and Risk Oversight Committee Charter are filed as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2, 99.3, and 99.4 respectively to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
E*TRADE Financial Corporation, originally incorporated under the name of E*TRADE Group, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the ""), does hereby certify as follows:
DGCL
FIRST: The Corporation's original Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 30, 1996.
SECOND: On June 2, 2010, the Corporation amended and restated its Certificate of Incorporation, pursuant to the DGCL (the "").
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
THIRD: This Certificate of Amendment amends the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation as provided below.
1. Section (b) of Article SEVENTH of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation is amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
(b) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional Directors under specified circumstances, each Director elected at and after the annual meeting of stockholders of 2012 shall be elected for a term expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders and until such Director's successor shall have been elected and qualified, or until such director's earlier death, resignation or removal. For the avoidance of doubt, any Director elected prior to the annual meeting of stockholders of 2012 shall serve for the remainder of the term to which such Director was elected or until such Director's earlier death, resignation or removal.
2. Section (c) of Article SEVENTH of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation is deleted in its entirety.
3 Sections (d) and (e) of Article SEVENTH of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation are re-lettered as Sections (c) and (d), respectively.
FOURTH: This Certificate of Amendment, which amends the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of the Amended and Restated
Certificate of Incorporation and Section 242 of the DGCL by the requisite vote of the holders of the outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon at a meeting which was called and held upon notice in accordance with Section 222 of the DGCL.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be duly executed in its corporate name by its duly authorized officer.
Dated: May 10, 2012
 

Exhibit 3.2
Sections 2.02 and 2.03 of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company shall be amended and restated to be read in their entirety as follows:
Section 2.02. Subject to amendment in accordance with Article FIFTH of the Certificate of Incorporation, the number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors but shall not be less than six or more than twelve. Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each Director elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and their successors shall be elected in accordance with Article SEVENTH of the Certificate of Incorporation. Directors need not be stockholders of the corporation.
Number; Election; Tenure and Qualification.
Section 2.03. Unless and until filled by the stockholders, any vacancy in the Board of Directors, however occurring, including a vacancy resulting from an enlargement of the Board of Directors, may be filled by vote of a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director; provided, however, a vacancy created by the removal of a director by the vote of the stockholders or by court order may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares represented and voting at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present (which shares voting affirmatively also constitute a majority of the required quorum). Any director elected by the Board of Directors in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified, or until such director's earlier death, resignation or removal.
Vacancies.

Exhibit 99.1
The Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company has adopted the following Corporate Governance Guidelines (the "Guidelines") to assist the Board in the exercise of its duties and responsibilities and to serve the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. The Guidelines should be applied in a manner consistent with all applicable laws, rules and the Company's charter and bylaws, each as amended and in effect from time to time. The Guidelines are intended to serve as a flexible framework for the conduct of the Board's business and not as a set of legally binding obligations. The Board may modify or make exceptions to the Guidelines from time to time in its discretion and consistent with its duties and responsibilities to the Company and its stockholders.
These Guidelines were originally adopted by the Board of the Company on March 3, 2004, and amended on February 14, 2006, February 13, 2007, May 16, 2008, January 20, 2009 and May 9, 2012.
A.
Director Responsibilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. Director Qualifications
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this section, compensation includes direct and indirect remuneration as well as gifts or favors that are not insubstantial. A "personal interest" is not necessarily a conflict of interest; a conflict of interest arises only if the Board or a committee thereof decides that it exists.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C. Board Meetings
 
 
 
 
 
D. Board Committees
 
 
 
 
 
E. Access to Officers, Employees and Independent Advisors
 
 
F. Director Compensation
 
G. Director Orientation and Continuing Education
 
 
H. CEO Evaluation and Management Succession
The Board considers Company management evaluation and CEO succession planning an important responsibility of the Board. The Board, in conjunction with its Board committees, shall carry out the following responsibilities:
 
 
While the Governance Committee shall lead the reviews, the entire Board has primary responsibility for CEO succession planning and shall develop both long-term and contingency plans for succession of the CEO.
 
I. Annual Performance Evaluation
The Board, led by the Governance Committee, annually evaluates its own performance, and that of its committees. The Governance Committee shall, from time to time as it deems appropriate, use an independent third party service provider to conduct such annual evaluation. By acting on these findings, the Board can continually improve the quality of its corporate governance. The Governance Committee conducts the evaluation in accordance with its charter.
J. Board Interaction with Stockholders, Institutional Investors, the Press, and Customers.
The Board has determined that the CEO, and his or her designees, and management should speak for the Company when communicating or meeting with various constituencies that are involved with the Company. Board members will provide the CEO or the Company's General Counsel any written communications that are submitted to Board members by stockholders and other interested parties, and the CEO or the General Counsel will respond if and as appropriate and provide the Board copies or summaries of such communications, if he or she deems appropriate.
K. Periodic Review of the Corporate Governance Guidelines
The Governance Committee shall, from time to time as it deems appropriate, review and reassess the adequacy of these Guidelines and recommend any proposed changes to the Board for approval.
As specified above in these Corporate Governance Guidelines, a majority of the Board shall comprise directors meeting the independence requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market (NASDAQ) and the Company. The Board, through its Governance Committee (the "Governance Committee"), will make a determination regarding the independence of each director annually based on all relevant facts and circumstances. The Board has adopted the following categorical standards to assist it in making a determination of independence. Although any director who meets NASDAQ independence requirements and the following criteria shall be presumed to be independent (except for purposes of serving as a member of the Audit Committee), the Governance Committee may make an affirmative determination to the contrary based on its review of other factors:
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
This Charter was adopted by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company on January 22, 2003, and amended on February 13, 2007, August 13, 2009, July 26, 2011 and May 9, 2012.
 
The purpose of the Audit Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of the Company shall be to serve as an independent and objective party to monitor the Company's financial reporting process and internal control system and to provide an open avenue of communication among the independent auditors, financial and senior management and the Board. The Committee's primary duties and responsibilities are to monitor and oversee:
 
 
 
 
The Committee shall prepare the audit committee report that Securities and Exchange Commission rules require to be included in the Company's annual proxy statement. To effectively perform his or her role, each Committee member will obtain an understanding of the detailed responsibilities of Committee membership.
 
 
 
 
 
 
General
The Committee shall discharge its responsibilities, and shall assess the information provided by the Company's management and the Company's registered public accounting firm (the "independent auditor") in accordance with the same standards of duty and care as do the Directors of the Board.
The Committee's primary task is one of oversight as set forth in this Charter. In performing their duties and responsibilities, Committee members are entitled to rely in good faith on information, opinions, reports or statements prepared by:
 
 
 
In addition to any other responsibilities which may be assigned from time to time by the Board, the Committee is authorized to undertake, and has responsibility for, the following matters:
Oversight of Independent Auditors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oversight of Internal Audit Function
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements; Disclosure and Regulatory Matters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is not the duty of the Committee to plan or conduct audits or to determine that the Company's financial statements are complete and accurate and are in accordance with GAAP. Management is responsible for the preparation, presentation and integrity of the Company's financial statements, for the appropriateness of the accounting principles and reporting policies that are used by the Company, and for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting. The independent auditor is responsible for auditing the Company's financial statements and the Company's internal control over financial reporting and for reviewing the Company's unaudited interim financial statements.
It is also not the duty of the Committee to conduct investigations, to resolve disagreements, if any, between management and the outside auditors, to guarantee the independent auditor's reports, or to assure compliance with laws and regulations and the Company's policies generally.

Exhibit 99.3
This Charter was adopted by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company on April 23, 2003, and amended on February 13, 2007, August 13, 2009, and May 9, 2012.
 
The purpose of the Governance Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of the Company shall be to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General
The Committee members shall discharge their responsibilities and shall assess the information provided by the Company's management, in accordance with the same standards of duty and care as they do as members of the Board. In addition to any other responsibilities which may be assigned from time to time by the Board, the Committee is authorized to undertake, and has responsibility for, the following areas related to the Company.
Board and Committee Membership
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee shall present its proposals with respect to director compensation to the full Board for its approval.
 
 
Evaluation of the Board; Succession Planning
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Matters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.4
This Charter was adopted by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company on May 16, 2008 and amended on August 13, 2009, September 24, 2009, and May 9, 2012.
 
The purpose of the Risk Oversight Committee (the "Committee") shall be to assist the Board and oversee and monitor the Company's senior management in carrying out of the following responsibilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General
The Committee members shall discharge their responsibilities and shall assess the information provided by the Company's management, in accordance with the same standards of duty and care as they do as members of the Board. In addition to any other responsibilities that may be assigned from time to time by the Board, the Committee is authorized to undertake, and has responsibility for, the following areas relating to the Company and its subsidiaries.
Oversight of Financial Management
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk Profile and Oversight
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Matters and Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is not the duty of the Committee but rather the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Company's senior management to identify and assess the Company's exposure to risk. The Committee, however, shall meet with the Chief Risk Officer and Chief Compliance Officer at least quarterly to review the Company's risk management, compliance activities and potential risk exposures. While the Committee is responsible for overseeing the risk management function, including reviewing with management the guidelines and policies that govern the process by which risk assessment and risk management is undertaken, it is not the sole body responsible for ensuring that the Company's risk management function is carried out efficiently and effectively.


