FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20050707160944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the fling obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
            Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 1, 2005, a jury in the United States District Court in Delaware found that Johnson & Johnson's CYPHER drug-eluting stent infringes one of our patents related to polymer coatings, and that Johnson & Johnson's CYPHER, Bx VELOCITY, Bx SONIC and GENESIS stents infringe another patent covering stent design. The jury also upheld the validity of both patents. A hearing to determine damages and any other relief will be held at a later date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
 
EXHIBIT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC ANNOUNCES PATENT
INFRINGEMENT VERDICT AGAINST JOHNSON & JOHNSON
 
Natick, MA (July 1, 2005) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) announced today that a U.S. District Court jury in Delaware found that Johnson & Johnson's (NYSE: JNJ) CYPHER drug-eluting stent infringes a Boston Scientific patent and that Johnson & Johnson's CYPHER, Bx VELOCITY, Bx SONIC, and GENESIS stents infringe a second Boston Scientific patent. The jury also upheld the validity of both patents. The jury determined only liability; money damages and any other relief will be determined subsequently. The court has not yet set a post-verdict schedule.
 
"We are very pleased with the jury's verdict. It confirms our belief that we have fundamental intellectual property covering drug-eluting stent technology and stent design," said Paul A. LaViolette, Boston Scientific's Chief Operating Officer.
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer, and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit:
www.bostonscientific.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements. The Company wishes to caution the reader of this press release that actual results may differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements and may be adversely affected by, among other things, risks associated with litigation and other factors described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


