FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20050719100921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the fling obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
            Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 19, 2005, Boston Scientific Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2005.     A copy of the release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
 
EXHIBIT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC ANNOUNCES
SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
 
Natick, MA (July 19, 2005) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2005.
 
Highlights:
 
 
Net sales for the second quarter were $1.617 billion as compared to $1.460 billion for the second quarter of 2004, an increase of 11 percent. Excluding the favorable impact of $26 million of foreign currency fluctuations, net sales increased nine percent. Worldwide coronary stent sales for the second quarter were $700 million as compared to $652 million for the second quarter of 2004, an increase of seven percent. Worldwide sales of our TAXUS
paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent systems were $663 million, an increase of 11 percent. U.S. sales of our TAXUS
Express
2
paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent system were $467 million.
 
Net income for the quarter, excluding net special charges, increased seven percent to $404 million, or $0.48 per share, as compared to $377 million, or $0.44 per share, in the second quarter of 2004. Reported net income for the quarter, including net special charges of $199 million, was $205 million, or $0.24 per share. The net special charges for the quarter consisted principally of purchased in-process research and development costs related to the acquisitions of TriVascular, Inc.; CryoVascular Systems, Inc.; and Rubicon Medical Corporation.
 
We are pleased with the second quarter results, which featured double digit growth on a global basis, said Jim Tobin, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific.  Particularly impressive was our robust growth in international markets, where sales increased 21 percent.  Our TAXUS
 
 
 
-- more --
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 2
July 19, 2005
 
paclitaxel-eluting stent system continues to be the product of choice in the drug-eluting stent market, and it maintained its leadership position during the quarter.  In addition, the Company expanded its pursuit of innovative technologies with the acquisition of companies such as TriVascular, CryoVascular and Rubicon Medical.
 
Boston Scientific officials will be discussing these and other issues with analysts on a conference call at 11:00 a.m. (ET) Tuesday, July 19. The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website:
www.bostonscientific.com.
Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit: www.bostonscientific.com.
 
The Company discloses non-GAAP or pro forma measures that exclude certain charges. Non-GAAP measures may exclude such items as charges related to purchased in-process research and development and certain litigation. Management uses these measures to establish operational goals, and believes that non-GAAP measures may assist investors in analyzing the underlying trends in the Companys business over time. Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, not as a substitute for, or as superior to, financial reporting measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements. The Company wishes to caution the reader of this press release that actual results may differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements and may be adversely affected by, among other things, risks associated with new product development and introduction, clinical trials, regulatory approvals, competitive offerings, intellectual property, litigation, the Companys overall business strategy, and other factors described in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
Unaudited)
(
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Unaudited)
 


