FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20051014083440.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. 
   
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 14, 2005, Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2005.
 
A copy of the release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01. 
   
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
Natick, MA (
October 14, 2005) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2005 and provided revised revenue and earnings-per-share guidance for the fourth quarter and full year of 2005.
 
Third Quarter Financial Results:
 
Net sales for the third quarter were $1.511 billion as compared to $1.482 billion for the third quarter of 2004, an increase of two percent. Worldwide coronary stent sales for the third quarter were $633 million as compared to $686 million for the third quarter of 2004. Worldwide sales of TAXUS
paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent systems were $601 million.
 
During the quarter, the Company recorded special charges of $616 million, net of tax. The after-tax special charges for the quarter consisted primarily of $598 million related to the previously announced settlement agreement with Medinol. The reported net loss for the quarter, including net special charges, was $269 million, or $0.33 per share.
 
Net income for the quarter, excluding net special charges, was $347 million, or $0.42 per share, as compared to $404 million, or $0.47 per share in the third quarter of 2004.
 
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2005 Guidance:
 
For the fourth quarter, worldwide sales are expected to range between $1.550 billion and $1.590 billion. Earnings per share for the fourth quarter, excluding net special charges, are expected to range between $0.40 and $0.44 per share.
 
Worldwide sales for the full year are expected to range between $6.293 billion and $6.333 billion. Earnings per share for 2005, excluding net special charges, are expected to range between $1.81 and $1.85 per share.
 
During the quarter, we maintained our drug-eluting stent leadership position and experienced significant growth in international TAXUS
stent system sales, said Jim Tobin, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific. In addition, we were encouraged by the enthusiastic physician response to our next-generation TAXUS
Libert stent system, which we recently
 
-- more --
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 2
October 14, 2005
 
launched in Europe. Overall, we were pleased with the solid growth in most of our businesses, with the exception of U.S. drug-eluting stent sales.
 
The Company plans to communicate guidance for 2006 in January.
 
 
Boston Scientific officials will be discussing these and other issues with analysts on a conference call at 9:00 a.m. (ET) Friday, October 14. The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website:
www.bostonscientific.com
.
 
Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
 
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit:
www.bostonscientific.com
.
 
 
The Company discloses non-GAAP or pro forma measures that exclude certain charges. Non-GAAP measures may exclude such items as charges related to purchased in-process research and development and certain litigation. Management uses these measures to establish operational goals, and believes that non-GAAP measures may assist investors in analyzing the underlying trends in the Companys business over time. Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, not as a substitute for, or as superior to, financial reporting measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements. The Company wishes to caution the reader of this press release that actual results may differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements and may be adversely affected by, among other things, risks associated with new product development and introduction, clinical trials, regulatory approvals, competitive offerings, intellectual property, litigation, the Companys overall business strategy, and other factors described in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
WORLDWIDE SALES
REGIONAL SUMMARY
 
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
WORLDWIDE SALES
DIVISIONAL SUMMARY
 
(Unaudited)


