FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20050624164307.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the fling obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. 
   
Other Events.
On June 21, 2005, a jury in Delaware found that Boston Scientific's
TAXUS
Express
, Express
, Express
 Biliary,
and
Libert
stents infringe a Johnson & Johnson patent, and that the
Libert s
tent infringes a second J&J patent. This suit was originally filed by J&J (through its subsidiary Cordis Corporation) on January 13, 2003 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. The jury only determined liability; monetary damages will be determined in a later trial. Boston Scientific intends to appeal the decision. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
Item 9.01. 
   
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 
   
Press Release dated June 21, 2005
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Natick, MA (June 21, 2005) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) announced today that a jury in a patent infringement case in U.S. District Court in Delaware brought by Johnson & Johnson (NYSE: JNJ) against Boston Scientific has returned a verdict. The jury found that Boston Scientifics TAXUS
Express, Express, Express Biliary, and Libert stents infringe a J&J patent and that the Libert stent infringes a second J&J patent. Boston Scientific had challenged the validity of one of the patents, and the jury upheld the patents validity.
The jury only determined liability; monetary damages will be determined in a later trial. J&J is not seeking injunctive relief against the TAXUS Express, Express, or Express Biliary products. The Company stated that it is disappointed in the jurys decision, and that there are likely to be significant post-verdict motions and hearings, as well as an appeal of the decision.
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer, and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit:
www.bostonscientific.com
.
This press release contains forward-looking statements. The Company wishes to caution the reader of this press release that actual results may differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements and may be adversely affected by, among other things, risks associated with litigation and other factors described in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


