FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20060727084239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Employee Director Compensation
On July 25, 2006, our Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee, modified the existing compensation plan for our non-employee directors. Each non-employee director will continue to receive an annual retainer of $60,000 for his or her services as a director. In addition to this amount, the Chairman of the Board will continue to receive an annual cash retainer of $150,000 for his services as Chairman. Our annual stock option grants to all non-employee directors have been eliminated. Instead, the annual grant of shares of restricted stock to non-employee directors will be increased to a number of shares of restricted stock determined by dividing $80,000 by the fair market value of our stock on the date of grant. In addition to this grant, the Chairman of the Board will receive an additional annual grant of a number of shares of our restricted stock determined by dividing $40,000 by the fair market value of our stock on the date of grant, for his services as Chairman. The Audit Committee Chairmans additional annual cash retainer will be increased from $10,000 to $20,000 and the additional annual cash retainer for all other Committee Chairs will be increased from $5,000 to $10,000. The restricted stock grants will be made as of July 25, 2006 for 2006 and as of the date of our annual meeting of stockholders thereafter (or, if a director is elected to the Board on a date other than the annual meeting, on that date the director is first elected to the Board). The additional annual cash retainers will be effective for the quarter commencing July 1, 2006.
 
 
Appointment of Executive Officer
On July 25, 2006, our Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, appointed Dr. Donald S. Baim as our Senior Vice President and Chief Medical and Scientific Officer. In connection with his employment with Boston Scientific, Dr Baim will receive:
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, and along with our other executive officers, Dr. Baim will be entitled to receive an annual executive allowance of $25,000 payable in two equal installments of $12,500 each in the last pay periods of June and December 2006, pursuant to our Executive Allowance Plan, which has been previously filed.
A form of Dr. Baims offer letter is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.1. Forms of Dr. Baims Stock Option and Deferred Stock Unit Agreements are filed with this report as Exhibits 10.2 and 10.3.
 
 
Compensation of Executive Officer
On July 24, 2006, the Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors approved a salary increase and long-term incentive awards for Jim Gilbert, our Senior Vice President, in connection with his promotion to Group President, Cardiovascular. In connection with his promotion, Mr. Gilberts salary will be increased to $400,000 per year, an increase of $35,000. The long-term incentive awards consist of: (i) options to purchase 56,720 shares of our common stock at the fair market value on the date of grant, vesting in four equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant, and (ii) a deferred stock unit award of 20,070 shares of our common stock to be issued in four equal annual installments beginning on the second anniversary of the date of grant. The stock option and deferred stock unit awards will be made under our 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and are subject to both the terms and conditions of the Plan as well as the terms and conditions of our standard incentive award agreements, forms of which have been previously filed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Pursuant
 
to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
May 10, 2006
Donald S. Baim, M.D.
 
 
Dear Don:
On behalf of Boston Scientific Corporation and its Executive Committee, we are very pleased to confirm our offer of employment to you. Your Boston Scientific title will be Senior Vice President, Chief Medical and Scientific Officer. You will report to Paul LaViolette, Chief Operating Officer. As part of this offer, we are recommending your nomination (subject to Board approval) as a member of Boston Scientifics Executive Committee. We look forward to a productive and successful working relationship and to your formal acceptance of this offer of employment.
This letter, the enclosed Employee Agreement and Code of Conduct summarize our understanding of the terms of your employment and provide you the means to accept our offer as described.
SIGN-ON BONUS
Boston Scientific will provide you with a one-time signing bonus of $100,000 (gross amount), one half to be paid at the end of July 2006 and the remaining half at the end of January 2007. You must be employed by Boston Scientific to receive the sign-on bonus.
 
COMPENSATION
Through annual and long-term programs, Boston Scientific's compensation programs provide our employees with significant compensation opportunities on a pay for performance basis. The objective of these programs is to recognize and reward both individual and company performance.
Base Salary:
Base gross salary for this position will be $19,230.77, currently
 
payable bi-weekly, equivalent to $500,000 on an annualized basis. Your performance and compensation will generally be reviewed on an annual basis. The Boston Scientific performance year currently runs from January 1 through December 31 of each year. If your date of employment is on or before November 1, you are eligible to participate in the current years performance and compensation review based on your managers assessment of your performance. Any compensation change will be prorated based on your date of employment. If your date of employment is after November 1, your first performance and compensation review will occur in the following year.
 
Performance Incentive Plan:
The Boston Scientific performance year currently runs from January 1 through December 31 of each year. The Performance Incentive Plan provides employees with the opportunity for a variable financial incentive in recognition of individual and company performance in a given year. If your date of employment is on or before November 1, you are eligible to participate in the annual Performance Incentive Plan beginning this year and any incentive payment will be prorated based on your date of employment. If your date of employment is after November 1, you are eligible to participate the following year under the terms of that plan. Per the current plan, your annual target incentive is 75%
 
of base salary. Your actual award will be based on your achievement of individual goals and the company's achievement of corporate performance goals. However, in your case, you will receive a guaranteed minimum payment of $375,000 for 2006, reflecting a projected 100% individual and company performance. Under the current plan, you must be an active employee on December 31 of the then current year to be eligible for payment. A copy of the 2006 Performance Incentive Plan is enclosed for your information.
 
Executive Allowance Plan:
As a member of the Executive Committee, you will be eligible to participate in the Boston Scientific Executive Allowance Plan. Under this Plan, you will receive $25,000 annually in lieu of certain other perquisites. This payment is subject to applicable withholdings and is typically payable in two equal installments of $12,500 each in the last pay periods of the months of June and December (except for 2006, which will be prorated). A copy of Boston Scientifics Executive Allowance Plan is attached for your information.
 
Equity:
As part of this offer of employment, we are also recommending that you be granted an option to purchase 50,000 shares of Boston Scientific common stock and given an award of 50,000 Deferred Stock Units (DSUs). The stock option grant and DSU award will be made pursuant to one of the Boston Scientific Long Term Incentive Plans. Our Long Term Incentive Plans are designed to share the rewards of the business with individuals who most significantly contribute to the achievement of the companys strategic and operating goals. The option grant, which must be submitted to the Compensation Committee for approval, will provide you with the opportunity to purchase shares of Boston Scientific common stock. The grant date and exercise price per share will be set on the later of your actual hire date or the date the recommendation is formally approved. The option grant will vest in four equal annual installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant and will expire on the 10
th
anniversary of the grant date. In all other respects the option grant will be subject to the provisions of the applicable Long Term Incentive Plan and Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement except that all options granted will fully vest in the event of (i) a company-initiated termination from employment for reasons other than cause or (ii) your decision to terminate your employment for good reason during the four-year vesting period. The DSU award, which must also be submitted to the Compensation Committee for approval, gives you the right to receive shares of Boston Scientific common stock (less applicable tax and other withholdings) to be issued to you in three equal annual increments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of the grant. This award is subject to all provisions of the applicable Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Stock Unit Agreement except that all units awarded will fully vest in the event of (i) a company-initiated termination from employment for reasons other than for cause or (ii) your decision to terminate your employment for good reason during the three-year vesting period. On an ongoing basis, you will be eligible to
 
2
participate in Boston Scientifics annual Long-Term Incentive Program to the extent that it is offered and you meet the eligibility criteria, including but not limited to, an expected level of performance consistent with your position and level of responsibility at Boston Scientific.
 
BENEFITS
Enclosed is descriptive literature regarding Boston Scientific's current benefit programs. You should review this information prior to your start date so you are prepared to enroll within your first 31 days of employment. Please understand that the company reserves the right to unilaterally amend or terminate any of these programs, or to require or change employee premium contributions toward any benefits.
Executive Retirement Plan:
As a member of the Executive Committee, if you Retire from Boston Scientific (as that term is defined in our Executive Retirement Plan), you may be eligible to receive certain benefits provided in that Plan, including a lump sum payment equal to 2.5 months of base salary times your years of service, subject to a maximum benefit of 36 months. A copy of Boston Scientifics Executive Retirement Plan is attached for your information.
Boston Scientific Retention and Indemnification Agreements:
Boston Scientific also provides retention and indemnification agreements to its key executives. In general, the retention agreement entitles you as a member of our Executive Committee to a lump sum payment of three times your base salary and assumed on-plan incentive bonus if either your employment is terminated (other than for cause) or if your duties are diminished following a change in control of Boston Scientific. Indemnification by Boston Scientific is also extended to key executives for liability arising in the proper performance of ones responsibilities as an executive officer of Boston Scientific. A form of each agreement is attached for your information.
INTERACTIONS WITH OTHER COMPANIES
With respect to the companies listed on Attachment A to this letter, subject to the approval of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors to waive conflicts of interest, Boston Scientific agrees that during your employment by Boston Scientific, you may continue your present association with and/or investment in these companies, provided that you agree to recuse yourself from all involvement in any type of activity, including without limitation discussions, correspondence, review of documents, deliberations, recommendations, decision-making and access to information (collectively the Carve-out Activity) to the extent that the Carve-out Activity relates to or is competitive with Boston Scientific, either directly or indirectly.
With respect to any companies not listed on Attachment A and with which you would like to enter a future association or in which you would like to invest, you agree that during your employment by Boston Scientific, Boston Scientific retains the right to preapprove or reject your relationship with these companies, subject to the Carve-out Activities in all cases, based on Boston Scientifics usual conflicts of interest standards (as described in the enclosed Code of Conduct) and subject to the agreement of Paul LaViolette, who will also use your then-current workload as a primary criterion.
3
For a two-year post-termination of employment period, you will not involve yourself in any of the Carve-Out Activities with respect to the companies listed on Attachment A to this letter without Boston Scientifics prior approval, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld.
AUTHORIZATION TO WORK
Please note that this offer of employment is contingent upon your ability to provide, on your first day of employment, a completed I-9 form and acceptable original documents that will establish your identity and authorization to work in the U.S. in compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, a federal law. Please see the enclosed document "Orientation for New Hires" for a list of acceptable identification documents.
It is Boston Scientific's practice to require that these original identification documents be presented on the first day of employment, so please remember to bring them.
EMPLOYMENT AT WILL
Upon acceptance of this offer and your active start of employment, you will become an "at will" employee of Boston Scientific. This means that you will be free to resign at any time. Likewise, Boston Scientific will have the right to terminate your employment at any time with or without reason or notice. Acceptance of this offer acknowledges your understanding and acceptance of the "at will" nature of your employment.
ACCEPTANCE
This offer letter is contingent upon the following:
 
4
Please indicate your acceptance of this offer of employment and agreement with the terms described in the enclosed documents b
y completing, signing and returning all enclosed paperwork at least four (4) business days before your start date.
The Code of Conduct, Benefits Literature and policy documents should be retained by you for your records.
Don, we believe that the opportunity here with Boston Scientific will be a mutually rewarding one and we look forward to your acceptance of this offer.
Sincerely,
Agreed to and Accepted by____________________________________ Date:_____________
Enclosures:
Employee Agreement
Benefits Literature
Code of Conduct
New Employee Checklist/Forms/Equal Employment Policy Statement
Policy Against Harassment
Orientation for New Hires
Performance Incentive Plan
Executive Allowance Plan
Executive Retirement Plan
Retention Agreement
Indemnification Agreement
Attachment A
 
5
 

 
EXHIBIT 10.2
 
 
 
 
This Agreement is entered into by and between Boston Scientific Corporation (the "Corporation") and the person whose name appears on the signature page hereof (the "Optionee") effective as of the 10th day of July, 2006. This Agreement is made pursuant to the Boston Scientific Corporation 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), which is administered by the Committee.
Capitalized terms not defined in this Agreement have the same meanings specified in the Plan.
 
The Corporation hereby grants to the Optionee a Non-Qualified Stock Option (the "Option") to purchase that number of shares of common stock of the Corporation set forth on the signature page hereof (the "Option Shares") at the price set forth on the signature page hereof (the "Exercise Price").
Except as otherwise provided in Section IV, the Option shall have a term of ten (10) years from July 10, 2006 until July 10, 2016 and shall vest in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth on the signature page hereof.
While this Option remains exercisable, the Optionee may exercise a vested portion of the Option by delivering to the Corporation or its designee in the form and at the location specified by the Corporation, notice stating the Optionee's intent to exercise a specified number of shares subject to the Option and payment of the full Exercise Price for the specified number of shares. The payment for the full Exercise Price for the shares exercised must be made in (i) cash, (ii) by certified check or bank draft payable in U.S. dollars ($US) to the order of the Corporation, or (iii) in whole or in part in Common Stock of the Corporation owned by the Optionee, valued at Fair Market Value.
Shares of Common Stock of the Corporation used for payment, in whole or part, of the Exercise Price must have been owned by the Optionee, free and clear of all liens or encumbrances for a period of at least six (6) months prior to the exercise date. In addition, the Committee may impose such other or different requirements as it may deem necessary to avoid charges to earnings of the Corporation.
The exercise date for the Optionee's exercise of all or a specified portion of the Option pursuant to this Section III will be deemed to be the date on which the Corporation receives the irrevocable commitment from the Optionee to exercise the Option Shares in the form of notice of exercise specified by the Corporation, subject to Optionee's payment in full for the Option Shares to be exercised. Notice of exercise of all portions of the Option being exercised along with payment in full of the Exercise Price for such portion must be received by the Corporation or its designee on or prior to the last day of the Option term, as set forth in Section II above, except as provided in Section IV below.
Upon the Corporation's determination that there has been a valid exercise of the Option, the Corporation shall issue certificates in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, or cause the Corporations transfer agent to make the necessary book entries, for the shares subject to the exercised portion of the Option. However, the Corporation shall not be liable to the Optionee, the Optionee's personal representative, or the Optionee's successor(s)-in-interest for damages relating to any delays in issuing the certificates or in making book entries, any loss of the certificates, or any mistakes or errors in the issuance of the certificates or in making book entries, or in the certificates themselves.
Upon the Optionees termination of employment for reasons of Retirement, death or Disability, all remaining unexercised portion(s) of the Option shall immediately vest and become exercisable by the Optionee or the Optionee's appointed representative, as the case may be, until the expiration of term of the Option, or such other term as the Committee may determine at or after grant. In addition, in the event of the Optionees termination of employment for reasons of (i) a company-initiated termination of employment other than for Cause, or (ii) the Optionees decision to terminate employment for Good Reason (as defined in the Retention Agreement between the Company and the Optionee) during the vesting period of the Option, all remaining unexercised portions of the Option shall vest and become immediately exercisable by the Optionee until the expiration date of the Option or such other time as the Committee may determine at or after grant.
Upon termination of the Optionees employment for reasons other than for Cause or as listed in this Section IV above, the Optionee shall have the shorter of (i) twelve (12) months from the date of departure or (ii) the remaining term of the Option, to exercise all vested, unexercised portion(s) of the Option. Upon termination of the Optionee's employment for reasons other than for those set forth above, all non-vested unexercised portions of the Option shall lapse; provided that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may extend the exercise period and/or accelerate vesting of unvested portions of the Option provided that such exercise period does not extend beyond the original term of the Option and no portion of the Option shall become vested earlier than six (6) months from the date of grant.
At the time the Optionee is informed of termination of the Optionees employment for Cause, all unexercised portions of the Option shall lapse and be forfeited. The Option, to the extent unexercised on the date following the end of any period described above or the Option term set forth above in Section II, shall thereupon lapse and be forfeited.
Any permitted transferee (pursuant to Section VIII below) of the Optionee shall receive the rights herein granted subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. No transfer of this Option shall be approved and effected by the Corporation unless (i) the Corporation shall have been timely furnished with written notice of such transfer and any copies of such notice as the Committee may deem, in its sole discretion, necessary to establish the validity of the transfer; (ii) the transferee or transferees shall have agreed in writing to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and (iii) such transfer complies with applicable laws and regulations.
 
The Option grant made under the Plan and this Agreement shall not confer on the Optionee any right to continue serving as an employee of the Corporation and this Agreement shall not be construed in any way to limit the Corporations right to terminate or change the terms of the Optionees employment.
 
All unvested portions of the Option shall vest in the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control. All vested portions of the Option shall terminate immediately prior to the Change in Control unless the Committee provides, at its discretion, for the substitution or assumption of the Option, by conversion into an option to acquire securities of equivalent kind and value of the surviving entity as of the effective date of the Change in Control.
The certificates representing the shares received by the Optionee pursuant to the exercise of the Option may be stamped or otherwise imprinted with a legend in such form as the Corporation or its counsel may require with respect to any applicable restrictions on sale or transfer and the stock transfer records of the Corporation may reflect stop-transfer instructions with respect to such shares.
Except as required by law, the Option granted under this Agreement is not transferable and shall not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, gifted, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of by the Optionee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or without payment of consideration to Family Members of the Optionee or to trusts or other entities for the benefit of the Optionee or immediate family members of the Optionee. During the Optionee's lifetime, the Option is exercisable only by the Optionee, except as provided in Section IV above.
The Optionee agrees to make appropriate arrangements with the Corporation for satisfaction of any applicable federal, state or local income tax, withholding requirements or like requirements, including the payment to the Corporation at the time of exercise of the Option of all such taxes and requirements.
 
 
Upon the acquisition of any shares pursuant to the exercise of the Option, Optionee will make or enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Corporation may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws, or with the Plan.
 
 
 
Any legal notice necessary under this Agreement shall be addressed to the Corporation in care of its Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation and to the Optionee at the address appearing in the personnel records of the Corporation for such Optionee or to either party at such other address as either party may designate in writing to the other. Any such notice shall be deemed effective upon receipt thereof by the addressee.
 
 
The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts (without regard to the conflicts of laws principles) and applicable federal laws.
 
 
The Option granted by this Agreement is subject to the Plan. The terms and provisions of the Plan as it may be amended from time to time are hereby incorporated herein by reference. This Agreement contains terms and provisions established by the Committee specifically for the grant described herein. Unless the Committee has been authorized under the Plan to establish specific terms of an option grant, the terms of this Agreement shall govern. The Committee retains the right to alter or modify the Option granted under this Agreement as the Committee may determine as in the best interests of the Company.
 
 
The headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall be deemed to be one and the same instrument.
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation, by its duly authorized officer, and the Optionee have executed and delivered to the Agreement effective as of the date and year first above written.
Option Shares: 50,000
Exercise Price: $16.36
Vesting Schedule:
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 10.3
This Agreement, dated as of the 10th day of July, 2006 (the "Grant Date"), is between Boston Scientific Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and the person whose name appears on the Signature Page of this Agreement (the "Participant"), an employee of the Company or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan set forth on the Signature Page of this Agreement (the "Plan").
1.
 
Grant and Acceptance of Award
. The Company hereby indicates its intent to award to the Participant that number of Deferred Stock Units set forth on the Signature Page of this Agreement (the "Units"), each Unit representing the Company's commitment to issue to Participant one share of the Company's common stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Stock"), subject to certain eligibility and other conditions set forth herein. The award is intended to be granted pursuant to and is subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan.
2.
 
Eligibility Conditions upon Award of Units
. Participant hereby acknowledges the intent of the Company to award Units subject to certain eligibility and other conditions set forth herein.
3.
 
Satisfaction of Conditions
. Except as otherwise provided in Section 5 hereof (relating to death of the Participant), Section 6 hereof (relating to Disability of the Participant), Section 7 hereof (relating to Retirement of the Participant), Section 8 hereof (relating to Other Conditions) and Section 10 hereof (relating to Change in Control of the Company), the Company intends to award shares of Stock hereunder subject to the eligibility conditions described in Section 9 hereof in approximately equal annual installments on each of three anniversaries of the date first set forth above, beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant. No shares of Stock shall be issued to Participant prior to the date on which the Units vest.
 
4.
 
Participant's Rights in Stock
. The shares of Stock if and when issued hereunder shall be registered in the name of the Participant and evidenced in the manner as the Company may determine. During the period prior to the issuance of Stock, the Participant will have no rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the Stock, including no right to receive dividends or vote the shares of Stock.
5.
 
Death
. Upon the death of the Participant while employed by the Company and its affiliates or subsidiaries, the Company will issue to the Participant or beneficiary of the Participant as set forth under the provisions of the Company's program of life insurance for employees, any shares of Stock to Participant to be awarded hereunder that remain subject to eligibility conditions.
6.
 
Disability
. In the event of the Participant's Disability, the Company will issue to Participant any shares of Stock to be awarded hereunder that remain subject to eligibility conditions.
7.             
. Upon the Participants Retirement, the Company will issue to Participant any shares of Stock to be awarded hereunder that remain subject to eligibility conditions.
Retirement
8.
 
. In the event of (i) a company-initiated termination of Participants employment for reasons other than for Cause, or (ii) the Participants decision to terminate employment for Good Reason (as defined in the Retention Agreement between the Company and the Participant), the Company will issue to Participant any shares of Stock to be awarded hereunder that remain subject to eligibility conditions.
Other Conditions
9.
 
Other Termination of Employment -- Eligibility Conditions
. If the employment of the Participant with the Company and its affiliates or subsidiaries is terminated or Participant separates from the Company and its affiliates or subsidiaries for any reason other than death, Disability, Retirement or the Other Conditions described in Section 8 hereof, any Units that remain subject to eligibility conditions shall be void and no Stock shall be issued to the Participant. Eligibility to be issued shares of Stock is conditioned on Participants continuous employment with the Company through and on the applicable anniversary of the date of grant as set forth in Section 3 above.
10.           
Change in Control of the Company
. In the event of a Change in Control of the Company, the Company will issue to Participant any shares of Stock to be awarded hereunder that remain subject to eligibility conditions.
11.           
Consideration for Stock
. The shares of Stock are intended to be issued for no cash consideration.
12.           
Delivery of Stock
. The Company shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Stock to be awarded hereunder until (i) all federal and state laws and regulations as the Company
 
2
may deem applicable have been complied with; (ii) the shares have been listed or authorized for listing upon official notice to the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. or have otherwise been accorded trading privileges; and (iii) all other legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery of the shares have been approved by the Company's legal department.
13.           
Tax Withholding
. The Participant shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes of any kind required by any national or local law to be paid with respect to the Units or the shares of Stock to be awarded hereunder, including, without limitation, the payment of any applicable withholding, income, social and similar taxes or obligations. Except as otherwise provided in this Section, upon the issuance of Stock or the satisfaction of any eligibility condition
 
with respect to the Stock to be issued hereunder, the Company shall hold back from the total number of shares of Stock to be delivered to the Participant, and shall cause to be transferred to the Company, whole shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value on the date the shares are subject to issuance an amount as nearly as possible equal to (rounded to the next whole share) the Companys withholding, income, social and similar tax
 
obligations with respect to the Stock. To the extent of the Fair Market Value of the withheld shares, Participant shall be deemed to have satisfied Participants responsibility under this Section 13 to pay these obligations. The Participant shall satisfy Participants responsibility to pay any other withholding, income, social or similar tax obligations with respect to the Stock, and (subject to such rules as the Committee may prescribe) may satisfy Participants responsibility to pay the tax obligations described in the immediately preceding sentence, by so indicating to the Company in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to the date the shares of Stock are subject to issuance and paying the amount of these tax obligations in cash to the Company within ten (10) business days following the date the Units vest or by making other arrangements satisfactory to the Committee for payment of these obligations. In no event shall whole shares be withheld by or delivered to the Company in satisfaction of tax withholding requirements in excess of the maximum statutory tax withholding required by law. The Participant agrees to indemnify the Company against any and all liabilities, damages, costs and expenses that the Company may hereafter incur, suffer or be required to pay with respect to the payment or withholding of any taxes. The obligations of the Company under this Agreement and the Plan shall be conditional upon such payment or arrangements, and the Company shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment of any kind otherwise due to the Participant.
 
14.           
Investment Intent
. The Participant acknowledges that the acquisition of the Stock to be issued hereunder is for investment purposes without a view to distribution thereof.
15.           
Limits on Transferability
. Until the eligibility conditions of this award have been satisfied and shares of Stock have been issued in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or by action of the Committee, the Units awarded hereunder are not transferable and shall not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, gifted, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of or encumbered by the Participant. Transfers of shares of Stock by the Participant are subject to the Companys Stock Trading Policy.
16.           
Award Subject to the Plan
. The award to be made pursuant to this Agreement is made subject to the Plan. The terms and provisions of the Plan as it may be amended from time
 
3
to time are hereby incorporated herein by reference. In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained in this Agreement and a term or provision of the Plan, the applicable terms and conditions of the Plan will govern and prevail. However, no amendment of the Plan after the date hereof may adversely alter or impair the issuance of the Stock to be made pursuant to this Agreement.
17.           
No Rights to Continued Employment
. The Companys intent to grant the shares of Stock hereunder shall not confer upon the Participant any right to continued employment or other association with the Company or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries; and this Agreement shall not be construed in any way to limit the right of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to terminate the employment or other association of the Participant with the Company or to change the terms of such employment or association at any time.
18.           
Legal Notices
. Any legal notice necessary under this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company in care of its General Counsel at the principle executive offices of the Company and to the Participant at the address appearing in the personnel records of the Company for such Participant or to either party at such other address as either party may designate in writing to the other. Any such notice shall be deemed effective upon receipt thereof by the addressee.
19.           
Governing Law
. The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts (without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof) and applicable federal laws.
20.           
Headings
. The headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
21.           
Counterparts
. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall be deemed to the one and the same instrument.
4
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, by its duly authorized officer, and the Participant have executed and delivered this Agreement as a sealed instrument as of the date and year first above written.
PLAN: 2003 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
Number of Deferred Stock Units:       50,000
Issuance Schedule
33 1/3%
 
 
July 1, 2007
33 1/3%
 
 
July 1, 2008
33 1/3%
 
 
July 1, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 


