FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20061018162618.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 18, 2006, Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2006.
 
A copy of the release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Natick, MA (October 18, 2006) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2006.
 
Net sales for the third quarter of 2006 were $2.026 billion as compared to $1.511 billion for the third quarter of 2005, an increase of 34 percent. The increase was primarily attributable to the inclusion of $491 million of net sales from the Companys cardiac rhythm management (CRM) and cardiac surgery businesses.
 
Reported net income for the third quarter of 2006 was $76 million, or $0.05 per share, on approximately 1.5 billion weighted average shares outstanding. Reported results for the third quarter of 2006 included charges (after-tax) of $77 million, or approximately $0.05 per share, which consisted primarily of expenses resulting from purchase accounting and other charges related to the Guidant acquisition.
 
Reported net loss for the third quarter of 2005 was $269 million, or $0.33 per share, on approximately 820 million weighted average shares outstanding. Reported results for the third quarter of 2005 included charges (after-tax) of $616 million, or approximately $0.75 per share, which consisted primarily of a settlement agreement with Medinol Ltd.
 
Operating cash flow for the third quarter of 2006 approximated $480 million. Adjusted net income for the quarter, excluding net charges and amortization and stock compensation expense, was $291 million, or $0.20 per share. Adjusted net income for the third quarter of 2005, excluding net charges and amortization and stock compensation expense, was $379 million, or $0.46 per share.
 
Worldwide sales of TAXUS
paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent systems were $572 million for the third quarter of 2006 as compared to $601 million for the third quarter of 2005. U.S. sales of TAXUS coronary stent systems were $384 million for the third quarter of 2006 as compared to $404 million for the third quarter of 2005.
 
Worldwide CRM sales were $446 million, which included $315 million of worldwide implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) sales and $131 million of worldwide pacemaker sales. U.S. CRM sales were $296 million, which included $221 million of U.S. ICD sales and $75 million of U.S. pacemaker sales.
 
 
Despite the challenges in Q3, we were able to achieve results near the high end of our previously announced preliminary sales and earnings ranges, said Jim Tobin, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific. We look forward to providing an update on our business and our growth opportunities at our November 6 analyst meeting.
 
 
Boston Scientific officials will be discussing these and other issues with analysts on a conference call at 4:30 p.m. (ET) Wednesday, October 18, 2006. The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website:
www.bostonscientific.com
. Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit:
www.bostonscientific.com
.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements. The Company wishes to caution the reader of this press release that actual results may differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements and may be adversely affected by, among other things, risks associated with new product development and introduction, clinical trials, regulatory approvals, competitive offerings, intellectual property, litigation, integration of acquired companies, the Companys overall business strategy, and other factors described in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Non-GAAP Measures
 
The Company discloses non-GAAP measures that exclude certain charges. These supplemental measures exclude the impact of certain charges such as purchase accounting adjustments, costs associated with acquisitions and investment portfolio activity that are highly variable and difficult to predict. The Companys non-GAAP adjusted net income also excludes stock-based compensation expense that the Company started recording under FAS 123(R) in the first quarter of 2006. Management uses these supplemental measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Companys business and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. Since management finds these measures to be useful, the Company believes that its investors benefit from seeing the Companys results through the eyes of management in addition to seeing its GAAP results.
 
The Company recognizes that these charges can have a material impact on the Companys cash flows and net income. Although the Company believes it is useful for investors to see its core performance free of certain charges, investors should understand that the excluded items are actual expenses that impact the cash available to the Company for other uses. To gain a complete picture of the Companys performance, management does (and investors should) rely upon the GAAP income statement. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
 
Readers are therefore reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that the Companys non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
WORLDWIDE SALES
REGIONAL SUMMARY
(Unaudited)
 
 
4
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
WORLDWIDE SALES
DIVISIONAL SUMMARY
(Unaudited)
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
The Company discloses non-GAAP measures that exclude certain charges. These supplemental measures exclude the impact of certain charges such as purchase accounting adjustments, costs associated with acquisitions and investment portfolio activity that are highly variable and difficult to predict. The Companys non-GAAP adjusted net income also excludes stock-based compensation expense that the Company started recording under FAS 123(R) in the first quarter of 2006. Management uses these supplemental measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Companys business and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. Since management finds these measures to be useful, the Company believes that its investors benefit from seeing the Companys results through the eyes of management in addition to seeing its GAAP results.
The Company recognizes that these charges can have a material impact on the Companys cash flows and net income. Although the Company believes it is useful for investors to see its core performance free of certain charges, investors should understand that the excluded items are actual expenses that impact the cash available to the Company for other uses. To gain a complete picture of the Companys performance, management does (and investors should) rely upon the GAAP income statement. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
Readers are therefore reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that the Companys non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
 
(a)
Recorded to cost of products sold
(b)
Recorded $7 million to selling, general and administrative expenses and $2 million to research and development expenses
(c)
Recorded to other, net
(d)
Recorded $11 million to selling, general and administrative expenses, $7 million to research and development expenses and $10 million to amortization expense
(e)
Recorded $16 million in 2006 to selling, general and administrative expenses, $6 million to research and development expenses and $4 million to cost of products sold; recorded $5 million in 2005 to selling, general and administrative expenses
 
7
 
 
8
 
 
(a)
Recorded to cost of products sold
(b)
Recorded $39 million to selling, general and administrative expenses and $3 million to research and development expenses
(c)
Recorded to other, net
(d)
Recorded to selling, general and administrative expenses
(e)
Recorded to research and development expenses
(f)
Recorded $11 million to selling, general and administrative expenses, $7 million to research and development expenses and $10 million to amortization expense
(g)
Recorded $59 million in 2006 to selling, general and administrative expenses, $18 million to research and development expenses and $12 million to cost of products sold; recorded $13 million in 2005 to selling, general and administrative expenses
 
9
 
 
 
10
 


