FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20060609170403.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
          
ITEM 1.01.
ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
     On June 6, 2006, Boston Scientific Corporation (the "Company") entered into an Underwriting Agreement, dated June 6, 2006, as supplemented by the Terms Agreement, dated June 6, 2006 (as so supplemented, the "Underwriting Agreement"), among the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Banc of America Securities LLC, as representatives of the underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriters"), whereby the Company agreed to sell and the Underwriters agreed to purchase, subject to and upon terms and conditions set forth therein, $600 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.00% Notes due 2011 (the "2011 Notes") and $600 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.40% Notes due 2016 (the 2016 Notes, and collectively with the 2011 Notes, the "Notes") under the Company's existing shelf registration statement. The Underwriting Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and customary conditions to closing, indemnification rights and obligations of the parties and termination provisions. A copy of the Underwriting Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.1. The foregoing summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Underwriting Agreement.
In connection with the offering of the Notes, the Company entered into an Indenture dated as of June 1, 2006, with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as trustee, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1. Each of the Notes is represented by one or more global securities, forms of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 4.2 and 4.3.
          
ITEM 8.01
OTHER EVENTS.
     On June 9, 2006, the Company completed the offering of the Notes under its existing shelf registration statement. The Company plans to use the proceeds of the offering for general corporate purposes, including to fund taxes payable relative to Guidant Corporation's asset sale to Abbott Laboratories and to repay approximately $350 million in outstanding borrowings under the Company's credit and security facility that is secured by the Company's U.S. trade receivables.
          
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 1.1 BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION Debt Securities UNDERWRITING AGREEMENT-BASIC PROVISIONS June 6, 2006 To: The Underwriters named in the within-mentioned Terms Agreement Ladies and Gentlemen: Boston Scientific Corporation (the "Company") proposes to issue and sell its Debt Securities having an aggregate initial public offering price or purchase price of up to U.S. $1,200,000,000 or the equivalent thereof in foreign currencies or currency units (the "Securities"). The Securities will be issued under an indenture dated as of June 1, 2006 between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented from time to time by supplemental indentures and/or modified from time to time by resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company as provided in Section 301 of such indenture (such indenture as so supplemented and/or modified being hereinafter referred to as the "Indenture"). Whenever the Company determines to make an offering of Securities, it will enter into an agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto (a "Terms Agreement") providing for the sale of such Securities to, and the purchase and offering thereof by, the underwriter or underwriters named therein (each an "Underwriter" and, collectively, the "Underwriters" or "you," which terms shall include the underwriter or underwriters named therein whether acting alone in the resale of the Securities or as members of an underwriting syndicate). The Terms Agreement relating to each offering of Securities shall specify the principal amount of Securities to be issued and their terms not otherwise specified in the Indenture, the name or names of the Underwriters participating in such offering (subject to substitution as provided in Section 10 hereof) and the principal amount of Securities which each severally agrees to purchase, the name or names of the Underwriters acting as manager or co-managers in connection with such offering, if any (each a "Representative" and, collectively, the "Representatives," which term shall include each Underwriter in the event that there shall be no manager or co-managers), the price at which the Securities are to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company, the initial public offering price, any delayed delivery arrangements and the time and place of delivery and payment. Each offering of Securities will be governed by this Agreement, as supplemented by the applicable Terms Agreement, and this Agreement and such Terms Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon each Underwriter participating in the offering of such Securities. 1. Representations and Warranties. The Company represents and warrants to you that as of the date hereof, as of the Applicable Time and as of the Closing Time (each as hereinafter defined) under such Terms Agreement (in each case, the "Representation Date") as set forth below. Certain terms used in this Section 1 are defined in paragraph (C) hereof. A. If the offering of the Securities is a Delayed Offering (as specified in the relevant Terms Agreement), paragraph (i) below is applicable and, if the offering of the Securities is a Non-Delayed Offering (as so specified), paragraph (ii) below is applicable. (i) The Company meets the requirements for the use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), and has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement (File No. 333-132626) on such Form, including a Basic Prospectus, for registration under the 1933 Act
of the offering and sale of the Securities. The Company may have filed one or more amendments thereto, and may have used a Preliminary Prospectus, each of which has previously been furnished to you. Such registration statement, as amended, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, at each time of effectiveness under the 1933 Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the 1933 Act or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), is called the "Registration Statement." Such Registration Statement, as so amended, has become effective. The offering of the Securities is a Delayed Offering and, although the Basic Prospectus may not include all the information with respect to the Securities and the offering thereof required by the 1933 Act and the rules thereunder to be included in the Final Prospectus, the Basic Prospectus included all such information required by the 1933 Act and the rules thereunder to be included therein as of the Effective Date. The Company will next file with the Commission pursuant to Rules 415 and 424(b)(2) or (5) a Final Prospectus to the Basic Prospectus included in such Registration Statement relating to the Securities and the offering thereof. The Final Prospectus shall only contain information in the Disclosure Package (as hereinafter defined) and the Final Term Sheet (as hereinafter defined), except to the extent the Representatives shall agree to any additional information. (ii) The Company meets the requirements for the use of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act and has filed with the Commission a registration statement (File No. 333-132626) on such Form, including a Basic Prospectus, for registration under the 1933 Act of the offering and sale of the Securities. The Company may have filed one or more amendments thereto, and including a Preliminary Prospectus, each of which has previously been furnished to you. Such registration statement, as amended, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, at each time of effectiveness under the 1933 Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, is called the "Registration Statement." The Company will next file with the Commission either (x) a Final Prospectus relating to the Securities in accordance with Rules 430B and 424(b)(1) or (4), or (y) prior to the effectiveness of such Registration Statement, an amendment to such Registration Statement, including the form of Final Prospectus. In the case of clause (x), the Company has included in such Registration Statement, as amended at the Effective Date, all information (other than Rule 430B Information) required by the 1933 Act and the rules thereunder to be included in the Final Prospectus with respect to the Securities and the offering thereof. The Final Prospectus shall only contain information in the Disclosure Package (as hereinafter defined) and the Final Term Sheet (as hereinafter defined), except to the extent the Representatives shall agree to any additional information. B. On the Effective Date, the Registration Statement did, and when the Final Prospectus is first filed (if required) in accordance with Rule 424(b) and at the Closing Time, the Final Prospectus (and any supplement thereto) will, comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act and the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "Trust Indenture Act"), and the respective rules thereunder; on the Effective Date, the Registration Statement did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading; the Indenture complies in all material respects with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and the rules thereunder; and, the Final Prospectus, will not, on the date of any filing pursuant to Rule 424(b) and at the Closing Time, include any untrue statement of a material fact or -2-
omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that the Company makes no representations or warranties as to (i) that part of the Registration Statement which shall constitute the Statement of Eligibility and Qualification (Form T-1) under the Trust Indenture Act of the Trustee or (ii) the information contained in or omitted from the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus (or any supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for inclusion in the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus (or any supplement thereto); it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Underwriter consists of the information in Annex C to the Terms Agreement. C. The term "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Basic Prospectus, including any preliminary prospectus supplement, as amended or supplemented prior to the Applicable Time, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the 1933 Act (each, an "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus"), if any, identified in Annex A to the Terms Agreement, (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package and (iv) the Final Term Sheet (as defined herein), which shall be identified in Annex B to the Terms Agreement. As of the Applicable Time, the Disclosure Package did not, and at the Closing Time will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that the Company makes no representations or warranties as to the information contained in or omitted from the Disclosure Package in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for inclusion in the Disclosure Package; it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Underwriter consists of the information in Annex C to the Terms Agreement. D. The terms which follow, when used in this Agreement, shall have the meanings indicated. The term "the Effective Date" shall mean each date that the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment or amendments thereto became or become effective. "Applicable Time" shall mean the date and time on the date of execution of the Terms Agreement (as set forth in the Terms Agreement), which the Company has informed the Underwriters as the time when sales of the Securities may be first made by the Underwriters in the offering. "Basic Prospectus" shall mean the prospectus referred to in paragraph (A)(i) above contained in the Registration Statement at the Effective Date including, in the case of a Non-Delayed Offering, any Preliminary Prospectus. "Preliminary Prospectus" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement to the Basic Prospectus which describes the Securities and the offering thereof including the Basic Prospectus and is used prior to filing of the Final Prospectus. "Final Prospectus" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Securities that is filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the Applicable Time, together with the Basic Prospectus or, if, in the case of a Non-Delayed Offering, no filing pursuant to Rule 424(b) is required, shall mean the form of final prospectus relating to the Securities, including the Basic Prospectus, included in the Registration Statement at the Effective Date. Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 which were filed under the 1934 Act on or before the Effective Date of the Registration Statement or the issue date of the Basic Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus, as the case may be; and any reference herein to the terms "amend", "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, any Preliminary -3-
Prospectus, the Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the filing of any document under the 1934 Act after the Effective Date or the issue date of the Basic Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus, as the case may be, deemed to be incorporated therein by reference; provided that no such document filed after the Applicable Time shall be deemed incorporated into the Disclosure Package. A "Non-Delayed Offering" shall mean an offering of securities which is intended to commence promptly after the effective date of the Registration Statement, with the result that, pursuant to Rules 415 and 430B, all information (other than Rule 430B Information) with respect to the securities so offered must be included in such Registration Statement at the effective date thereof. A "Delayed Offering" shall mean an offering of securities pursuant to Rule 415 which does not commence promptly after the effective date of the Registration Statement, with the result that only information required pursuant to Rule 415 need be included in such Registration Statement at the effective date thereof with respect to the securities so offered. Whether an offering of the Securities is a Non-Delayed Offering or a Delayed Offering shall be set forth in the relevant Terms Agreement. E. (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the 1933 Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the 1933 Act) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the 1933 Act, and (iv) at the Applicable Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (iv)), the Company was, is and will be a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act, that initially became effective within three years of the date hereof, and the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the 1933 Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form. F. (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement relating to the Securities that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the 1933 Act and (ii) as of the Applicable Time, the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the 1933 Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer. G. Neither any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus nor the Final Term Sheet, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of the Securities or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, including any document incorporated by reference therein that has not been superseded or modified. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written -4-
information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such Annex C to the Terms Agreement. H. The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Time and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Securities, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities other than the Preliminary Prospectus, the Final Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annex A to the Terms Agreement or the Registration Statement. I. The consolidated financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as at the dates indicated and the results of their operations for the periods specified; said financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved, except as indicated therein; the supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, if any, present fairly the information required to be stated therein; and if pro forma financial statements are included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, the assumptions used in preparing the pro forma financial statements included therein provide a reasonable basis for presenting the significant effects directly attributable to the transactions or events described therein, the related pro forma adjustments give appropriate effect to those assumptions, and the pro forma columns therein reflect the proper application of those adjustments to the corresponding historical financial statement amounts. J. The documents incorporated by reference in the Final Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, and, when read together and with the other information in the Final Prospectus, the Disclosure Package and the Registration Statement, at each Representation Date, did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. K. Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, except as may otherwise be stated therein or contemplated thereby, (i) there has been no material adverse change in the condition (financial or other), earnings, results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business and (ii) there have been no material transactions entered into by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, other than those in the ordinary course of business. L. The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware with corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and conduct its business as now being conducted and as described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus; and the Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure to so qualify would not -5-
have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or other), earnings, results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise (a "Material Adverse Effect"). M. Schedule I hereto sets forth each domestic and foreign subsidiary of the Company which is a "significant subsidiary" within the meaning of Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X of the 1933 Act (each, a "Material Subsidiary" and collectively, the "Material Subsidiaries"). Each Material Subsidiary of the Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure to be in good standing or to so qualify would not have a Material Adverse Effect, and, except as otherwise disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus, all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each such Material Subsidiary has been duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and non-assessable and is owned by the Company (except for directors' qualifying shares and shares held by individuals for the purpose of satisfying the legal requirements of the jurisdiction of incorporation), directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, claim or equity. N. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of its or any of their charters or in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, loan agreement, note, lease or other instrument to which it or any of them is a party or by which it or any of them or their properties may be bound where any such violation or default would have a Material Adverse Effect; and the execution of this Agreement, the execution and delivery of the Indenture and the applicable Terms Agreement (including this Agreement as incorporated by reference therein), the filing of the Registration Statement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein and therein have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, any contract, indenture, mortgage, loan agreement, note, lease or other instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject where any such conflict, breach, default, creation or imposition would have a Material Adverse Effect, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company or, to the best of its knowledge, any law, administrative regulation or administrative or court decree (except for such violations of any law, administrative regulation or administrative or court decree that would not have a Material Adverse Effect and would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement), and no consent, approval, authorization or order of any court or governmental authority or agency is required for the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except such as may be required under the 1933 Act or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Regulations"), the Trust Indenture Act or state securities or "blue sky" laws. O. The Company and its Material Subsidiaries possess adequate certificates, authorities or permits issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, except such certificates, -6-
authorities or permits which are not material to such conduct of their business, and neither the Company nor any of its Material Subsidiaries has, to the knowledge of the Company, received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such certificate, authority or permit which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of any unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would have a Material Adverse Effect. P. Except as set forth in the Registration Statement or the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, there is no action, suit or proceeding before or by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries that might reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, or that might reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the consummation of this Agreement and the applicable Terms Agreement. Q. There are no contracts or documents of the Company or any of its subsidiaries which are required to be filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement (including the documents incorporated by reference therein) by the 1933 Act or the Regulations which have not been so filed. R. The Company has full right, power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement, the Securities and the Indenture (collectively, the "Transaction Documents") and to perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder. S. The Indenture has been duly and validly authorized by the Company and, when executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming due execution and delivery by the Trustee, will be a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to the applicability of general principles of equity, and has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act. T. The Securities have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the applicable Terms Agreement (or will have been so authorized prior to each issuance of Securities) and, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and the Resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company or a Pricing Committee thereof, and delivered to and paid for by the purchasers thereof, will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms (subject, as to enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to principles relating to the availability of equitable remedies to the extent that adequate remedies at law may exist) and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, which will be substantially in the form heretofore delivered to you; and the Securities and the Indenture will conform when executed and delivered in all material respects to all statements relating thereto contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus. U. Except as disclosed in the Registration Statement or the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, and except as where such failure would not have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries own, possess, license or have the right to use the patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures), trademarks, service marks, trade names and other rights or interests in items of intellectual property as are necessary for the operation and conduct of the businesses now operated by them (the "patent and proprietary rights"); and except as disclosed in the Registration Statement or the Disclosure -7-
Package and the Final Prospectus, the Company has no knowledge of any infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any patent and proprietary rights which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would have a Material Adverse Effect, and, except as disclosed in the Registration Statement or the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, the Company has no knowledge that any person or entity is infringing or otherwise violating any of the Company's patents, trademarks, servicemarks or copyrights in a manner that could materially affect the use thereof by the Company or any of its subsidiaries and which infringement would have a Material Adverse Effect. V. No labor disturbance by the employees of the Company or any subsidiary exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent which might reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. W. The Company is not, and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, will not be an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company" as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. X. Except as described in the Registration Statement or the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus and except as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, to the knowledge of the Company, the properties, assets and operations of each of the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws (including, without limitation, common law), rules and regulations, orders, decrees, judgments, permits and licenses relating to worker health and safety, and to the protection and clean-up of the natural environment and to the protection or preservation of natural resources, including, without limitation, those relating to the processing, manufacturing, generation, handling, disposal, transportation or release of hazardous materials (collectively, "Environmental Laws"). With respect to such properties, assets and operations, there are no events, conditions, circumstances, activities, practices, incidents, actions or plans of the Company or any of its subsidiaries of which the Company is aware that may interfere with or prevent compliance or continued compliance with applicable Environmental Laws or otherwise result in liability to the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to applicable Environmental Law in a manner that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Affect. Except as described in the Registration Statement or the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus and except as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (A) to the Company's knowledge, none of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject of any federal, state, local or foreign investigation pursuant to Environmental Laws, (B) none of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has received any written notice or claim pursuant to Environmental Laws and (C) there are no pending, or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened actions, suits or proceedings against the Company, any of its subsidiaries or its properties, assets or operations, in connection with any Environmental Laws. The term "hazardous materials" shall mean those substances that are regulated by or pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws. Y. This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company. Z. The Company's authorized equity capitalization as of December 31, 2005 is as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus. -8-
AA. No holders of securities of the Company have rights to the registration of such securities under the Registration Statement. BB. The Company is, to its knowledge, in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that are effective and the rules and regulations of the Commission that have been adopted and are effective thereunder. Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters in connection with an offering of Securities shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company, as to the matters covered thereby, to each Underwriter. 2. Purchase and Sale. The several commitments of the Underwriters to purchase securities pursuant to any Terms Agreement shall be deemed to have been made on the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and shall be subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth. A. Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of, any Securities to be purchased by the Underwriters shall be made at the place set forth in the applicable Terms Agreement, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company, on the third business day (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 10) following the date of the applicable Terms Agreement or such other time as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Company (each such time and date being referred to as a "Closing Time"). Except as indicated in the applicable Terms Agreement, payment shall be made to the Company by wire transfer in same-day funds against delivery of the Securities to be purchased by the Representatives for the respective accounts of the Underwriters. Such Securities shall be in such denominations and registered in such names as the Representatives may request in writing at least two business days prior to the applicable Closing Time or shall be in global or bearer form as permitted by the Indenture. Such Securities, which may be in temporary form, will be made available for examination and packaging by the Representatives on or before the first business day prior to Closing Time. B. If authorized by the applicable Terms Agreement, the Underwriters named therein may solicit offers to purchase Securities from the Company pursuant to delayed delivery contracts ("Delayed Delivery Contracts") substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, with such changes therein as the Company may approve. C. As compensation for arranging Delayed Delivery Contracts, the Company will pay to the Representatives at Closing Time, for the accounts of the Underwriters, a fee equal to that percentage of the principal amount of Securities for which Delayed Delivery Contracts are made at Closing Time as is specified in the applicable Terms Agreement. Any Delayed Delivery Contracts are to be with institutional investors of the types which will be set forth in the applicable prospectus supplement included in the Final Prospectus. If applicable, at Closing Time the Company will enter into Delayed Delivery Contracts (for not less than the minimum principal amount of Securities per Delayed Delivery Contract specified in the applicable Terms Agreement) with all purchasers proposed by the Underwriters and previously approved by the Company as provided below, but not for an aggregate principal amount of Securities in excess of that specified in the applicable Terms Agreement. The Underwriters will not have any responsibility for the validity or performance of Delayed Delivery Contracts. D. The Representatives are to submit to the Company, at least two business days prior to Closing Time, the names of any institutional investors with which it is proposed that the Company will enter into Delayed Delivery Contracts and the principal amount of Securities to be -9-
purchased by each of them, and the Company will advise the Representatives, at least one business day prior to Closing Time, of the names of the institutions with which the making of Delayed Delivery Contracts is approved by the Company and the principal amount of Securities to be covered by each such Delayed Delivery Contract. E. The principal amount of Securities agreed to be purchased by the respective Underwriters pursuant to the applicable Terms Agreement shall be reduced by the principal amount of Securities covered by Delayed Delivery Contracts, as to each Underwriter as set forth in a written notice delivered by the Representatives to the Company; provided, however, that the total principal amount of Securities to be purchased by all Underwriters shall be the total amount of Securities covered by the applicable Terms Agreement, less the principal amount of Securities covered by Delayed Delivery Contracts. F. The Company acknowledges and agrees that the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement and the Terms Agreement hereunder, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand. 3. Covenants of the Company. The Company covenants with each Underwriter as follows: A. The Company will use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Registration Statement, if not effective at the Applicable Time, and any amendment thereto, to become effective. Immediately following the execution of each Terms Agreement, the Company will prepare a final prospectus supplement to be included in the Final Prospectus setting forth the principal amount of Securities covered thereby and their terms not otherwise specified in the Indenture, the names of the Underwriters and the principal amount of Securities which each severally has agreed to purchase, the names of the Representatives, the price at which the Securities are to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company, the initial public offering price, the selling concession and reallowance, if any, any delayed delivery arrangements, and such other information as the Representatives and the Company reasonably deem necessary in connection with the offering of the Securities. Following the completion of the offering, the Company will promptly transmit copies of the Final Prospectus to the Commission for filing pursuant to Rule 424 of the Regulations. B. If at any time when a prospectus is required by the 1933 Act to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities any event shall occur or condition exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or counsel for the Company, to further amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of circumstances existing at the time it is delivered to a purchaser or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend or supplement the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the Regulations, the Company will promptly prepare and file with the Commission such amendment or supplement, whether by filing documents pursuant to the 1934 Act or otherwise, as may be necessary to correct such untrue statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement and the Disclosure Package comply with such requirements. C. With respect to each sale of Securities, the Company will make generally available to its security holders and to the Representatives as soon as practicable earnings -10-
statements of the Company that will satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act and Rule 158 of the Regulations. D. From the date of a Terms Agreement, and for so long as a prospectus is required by the 1933 Act to be delivered in connection with the sale of Securities covered by such Terms Agreement, the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Final Prospectus, whether pursuant to the 1934 Act, the 1933 Act or otherwise, and will furnish them with copies of any such proposed amendment or supplement or other documents proposed to be filed a reasonable time in advance of filing and will provide the Representatives the opportunity to review and comment on such documents. E. From the date of a Terms Agreement, and for so long as a prospectus is required by the 1933 Act to be delivered in connection with the sale of Securities covered by such Terms Agreement, the Company will notify the Representatives immediately, and confirm the notice in writing, (i) of the effectiveness of any amendment to the Registration Statement, (ii) of the mailing or the delivery to the Commission for filing of any supplement to the Final Prospectus or any document to be filed pursuant to the 1934 Act which will be incorporated by reference into the Final Prospectus, (iii) of the receipt of any comments from the Commission with respect to the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Final Prospectus or any prospectus supplement related thereto, (iv) of any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus or for additional information relating to the offering of the Securities, (v) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose and (vi) the commencement or threat of any Section 8A proceeding against the Company in connection with the Securities. The Company will make every reasonable effort to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof as soon as practicable. F. The Company will deliver to the Representatives a conformed copy of the Registration Statement, any documents incorporated by reference therein (unless such documents are available on the "EDGAR" website), and each amendment thereto for each of the Underwriters. So long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be required by the 1933 Act, the Company will deliver to the Representatives as many copies of any Preliminary Prospectus and the Final Prospectus and any supplement thereto as the Representatives may reasonably request. G. The Company will arrange for the qualification of the Securities for offering and sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives, after consultation with the Company, may collectively designate and will maintain such qualifications in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Securities. H. The Company, during the period when the Final Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act, will file promptly all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 14 of the 1934 Act. I. Between the date of any Terms Agreement and the Closing Time the Company will not, without the prior consent of the Representatives, offer or sell, or enter into any agreement to sell, any debt securities of the Company with a maturity of more than one year, including additional Securities. -11-
J. The Company and the Representatives will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Securities, in a form agreed between the Company and the Representatives, and the Company will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the "Final Term Sheet"). K. The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, and each Representative represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Company, it will not make, any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act) required to be filed with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the 1933 Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Company and the Representatives hereto shall be deemed to have been given in respect of the Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex A to the Terms Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company and the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus". The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the 1933 Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Securities or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the 1933 Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Securities or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(J). L. The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) of the 1933 Act without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the 1933 Act. 4. Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations. The obligations of the Underwriters to purchase Securities pursuant to any Terms Agreement are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company herein contained as of the Applicable Time and Closing Time, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company's officers made in any certificate furnished pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of all of its covenants and other obligations hereunder and to the following further conditions: A. If the Registration Statement has not become effective prior to the Applicable Time, unless the Representatives agree in writing to a later time, the Registration Statement will become effective not later than (i) 6:00 p.m. New York City time, on the date of determination of the public offering price, if such determination occurred at or prior to 3:00 p.m. New York City time on such date or (ii) 12:00 Noon on the business day following the day on which the public offering price was determined, if such determination occurred after 3:00 p.m. New York City time on such date; if filing of the Final Prospectus, or any supplement thereto, is required pursuant to Rule 424(b), the Final Prospectus, and any such supplement, shall have been filed in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b). The Company will (i) prepare the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement, if necessary, in a form approved by the Underwriters and file such Rule 462(b) Registration Statement with the Commission in compliance with Rule 462(b) under the 1933 Act by 10:00 a.m. New York City time on the business day immediately following the date of determination of the public offering price of the Securities and, at the time of filing, either pay -12-
to the Commission the filing fee for the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement or give irrevocable instructions for the payment of such fee pursuant to Rule 111(b) under the 1933 Act. B. At the applicable Closing Time (i) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the 1933 Act or proceedings thereof or initiated or threatened by the Commission, (ii) there shall not have been since the execution of such Terms Agreement any decrease in the ratings of any of the Company's debt securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purpose of Rule 436(g) under the 1933 Act) or any notice given of any intended or potential decrease in any such rating or of a possible change in any such rating that does not indicate the direction of the possible change and (iii) there shall not have come to the attention of the Representatives any facts that would cause them reasonably to believe that the Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus, at the time it was required to be delivered to a purchaser of the Securities, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. C. At the applicable Closing Time you shall have received: 1. The favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel of the Company, substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit C. 2. The favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of Lawrence J. Knopf, Assistant General Counsel of the Company, substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit D. 3. The favorable opinion or opinions, dated as of the applicable Closing Time, of Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Securities, the Indenture, the Registration Statement, the Final Prospectus and other related matters as the Representatives may reasonably require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they may reasonably request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters. D. At the applicable Closing Time there shall not have been, since the Applicable Time or since the date and time of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, any material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), earnings, results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto), and the Company shall have furnished to the Representatives a certificate of the Company, signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the principal financial officer or the principal accounting officer of the Company, dated as of such Closing Time, to the effect that: 1. the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Closing Time with the same effect as if made at the Closing Time and the Company has complied with all the agreements and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Time; -13-
2. no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened; and 3. since the date of the most recent financial statements or financial data included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto), there has been no material adverse change in the condition (financial or other), earnings, results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto). You shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP or other independent certified public accountants acceptable to the Representatives a letter or letters, dated the date of the applicable Terms Agreement and as of the applicable Closing Time, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type customarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certified financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus; provided that such letters shall use a "cut-off" date no more than three business days prior to the respective dates of such letters. E. At the applicable Closing Time counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated and related proceedings or in order to evidence the accuracy and completeness of any of the representations and warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated shall be in all material respects satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters. If any condition specified in this Section shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, the applicable Terms Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to the applicable Closing Time, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 5. 5. Payment of Expenses. The Company will pay all reasonable and necessary expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and each Terms Agreement, including (a) the preparing, printing or other production and filing of the Registration Statement (as originally filed) and all amendments thereto, (b) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the Securities to the Underwriters, (c) the reasonable fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel and accountants and of the Trustee and its counsel, (d) the qualification of the Securities under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(G), including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of any Blue Sky Survey, (e) the printing or other production and delivery to the Underwriters in quantities as hereinabove stated of copies of the Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and the Final Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, (f) the production and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of the Indenture and any Blue Sky Survey reasonably requested by the Representatives, (g) the fees of rating agencies, (h) the fees and expenses, if any, incurred in connection with the listing of the Securities on any securities exchange, and (i) the fees, if any, of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. in connection with the review of the offering and including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith. -14-
If a Terms Agreement is terminated by the Representatives in accordance with the provisions of Section 4 or Sections 9(i) and 9(iv), or if the sale of any Securities provided for herein or in any Terms Agreement is not consummated because any condition to the obligations of the Underwriters set forth herein is not satisfied by the Company or because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or comply with any provision hereof, the Company shall reimburse the Underwriters named in such Terms Agreement for all of their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters, that shall have been incurred by them in connection with the proposed purchase and sale of the Securities. 6. Indemnification. A. The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20(a) of the 1934 Act, against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses whatsoever as incurred (including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees and any and all expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever, and any and all amounts paid in settlement of any claim or litigation), joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement for the registration of the Securities, as originally filed or any amendment thereof, or any related Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus, or in any supplement thereto or amendment thereof, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent, but only to the extent, that any such loss, liability, claim, damage or expense arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described in Annex C to the Terms Agreement. This indemnity will be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have, including under this Agreement. B. Each Underwriter severally, and not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of the directors of the Company, each of the officers of the Company who shall have signed the Registration Statement, and each other person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20(a) of the 1934 Act, against any losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses whatsoever as incurred (including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees and any and all expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever, and any and all amounts paid in settlement of any claim or litigation) to which they or any of them may become subject under the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement for the registration of the Securities, as originally filed or any amendment thereof, or any related Preliminary Prospectus, the Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that any such loss, liability, claim, damage or expense arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity -15-
with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Underwriter as set forth in Annex C to the Terms Agreement. It being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in the Terms Agreement. This indemnity will be in addition to any liability which any Underwriter may otherwise have, including under this Agreement. C. Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under such subsection, notify each party against whom indemnification is to be sought in writing of the commencement thereof (but the failure so to notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have under this Section 6). In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party, and it notifies an indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein, and to the extent it may elect by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to employ its or their own counsel in any such case, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party or parties unless (i) the employment of such counsel shall have been authorized in writing by one of the indemnifying parties in connection with the defense of such action, (ii) the indemnifying parties shall not have employed counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified parties to have charge of the defense of such action within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, or (iii) such indemnified party or parties shall have reasonably concluded that there may be defenses available to it or them which are different from or additional to those available to one or all of the indemnifying parties (in which case the indemnifying parties shall not have the right to direct the defense of such action on behalf of the indemnified party or parties), in any of which events such fees and expenses shall be borne by the indemnifying parties. Anything in this subsection to the contrary notwithstanding, an indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any claim or action effected without its written consent; provided, however, that such consent was not unreasonably withheld. No indemnifying party shall, without the written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement (x) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (y) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party. D. If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 6C effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. 7. Contribution. In order to provide for contribution in circumstances in which the indemnification provided for in Section 6 is for any reason held to be unavailable from any indemnifying party or is insufficient to hold harmless a party indemnified thereunder, then the indemnifying parties shall contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses of the nature contemplated by such indemnification provision (including any investigation, legal and other expenses incurred in connection with, and any amount paid in settlement of, any action, suit or proceeding or any -16-
claims asserted, but after deducting in the case of losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses suffered by the Company any contribution received by the Company from persons, other than the Underwriters, who may also be liable for contributions, including persons who control the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20(a) of the 1934 Act, officers of the Company who signed the Registration Statement and directors of the Company) as incurred to which the Company and one or more of the Underwriters may be subject, in such proportions as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Underwriters from the offering of the Securities or, if such allocation is not permitted by applicable law or indemnification is not available as a result of the indemnifying party not having received notice as provided in Section 6 hereof, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to above but also the relative fault of the Company and the Underwriters in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company and the Underwriters shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as (x) the total proceeds from the offering (net of underwriting discounts and commissions but before deducting expenses) received by the Company and (y) the underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters, respectively, in each case as set forth in the table on the cover page of the Final Prospectus. The relative fault of the Company and of the Underwriters shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, in no case shall any Underwriter be liable or responsible for any amount in excess of the underwriting discount applicable to the securities purchased by such Underwriter hereunder. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7 and the preceding sentence, no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 7, each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20(a) of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20(a) of the 1934 Act, each officer of the Company who shall have signed the Registration Statement and each director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to clauses (i) and (ii) of this Section 7. Any party entitled to contribution will, promptly after receipt of notice of commencement of any action, suit or proceeding against such party in respect of which a claim for contribution may be made against another party or parties, notify each party or parties from whom contribution may be sought, but the omission to so notify such party or parties shall not relieve the party or parties from whom contribution may be sought from any obligation it or they may have under this Section 7 or otherwise. The obligation of the Underwriters to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 shall be several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint. 8. Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive Delivery. All representations, warranties, indemnities and agreements contained in this Agreement or any Term Agreement, or contained in certificates of officers of the Company submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of any termination of the applicable Terms Agreement (including this Agreement as incorporated by reference therein), or any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, controlling person or the Company, and shall survive delivery of, and payment for, any Securities to the Underwriters. -17-
9. Termination. The Representatives may terminate the applicable Terms Agreement (including this Agreement, as incorporated by reference therein), immediately upon notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to the applicable Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the date of such Terms Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package or the Final Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition, (financial or otherwise), earnings, results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not from transactions arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) if there has occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or other calamity or crisis or change in general domestic or international economic, political or financial conditions either within or outside of the United States the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities, or (iii) if trading in any Securities of the Company has been suspended by the Commission or any securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market, or if trading generally on the American Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange or in the over-the-counter market has been suspended, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices for securities have been required, by either of said exchanges or by order of the Commission or any other governmental authority, or if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities or (iv) there shall have been since the execution of such Terms Agreement any decrease in the ratings of any of the Company's debt securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purpose of Rule 436(g) under the 1933 Act) or any notice given of any intended or potential decrease in any such rating or of a possible change in any such rating that does not indicate the direction of the possible change. 10. Default. If one or more of the Underwriters shall fail at the applicable Closing Time to purchase the Securities which it or they are obligated to purchase under the applicable Terms Agreement (the "Defaulted Securities"), then the Representatives shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-defaulting Underwriters, or any other underwriters, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth. If, however, during such 24 hours you shall not have completed such arrangements for the purchase of all of the Defaulted Securities, then: A. if the aggregate principal amount of Defaulted Securities does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased pursuant to such Terms Agreement, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated to purchase the full amount thereof in the proportions that their respective underwriting obligations under the applicable Terms Agreement (including this Agreement as incorporated by reference therein) bear to the underwriting obligations of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, unless otherwise agreed, or B. if the aggregate principal amount of Defaulted Securities exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased pursuant to such Terms Agreement, such Terms Agreement (including this Agreement as incorporated by reference therein) shall terminate, without any liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company. No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under the applicable Terms Agreement or this Agreement. In the event of a default by any Underwriter or Underwriters as set forth in this Section which does not result in termination of the applicable Terms Agreement, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the applicable Closing Time for a period not exceeding seven days in order that any required changes in the Registration Statement or the Final Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. -18-
11. Notices. All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to you as provided in the applicable Terms Agreement. Notices to the Company shall be directed to it at Boston Scientific Corporation, One Boston Scientific Place, Natick, Massachusetts 01760-1537, attention of the Chief Financial Officer with a copy to the Assistant General Counsel. 12. Parties. The applicable Terms Agreement and this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriters and the Company, and their respective successors and the officers and directors and any controlling persons referred to in Section 6 hereof. Nothing expressed or mentioned in the applicable Terms Agreement or this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the parties hereto or thereto and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 6 and 7 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of the applicable Terms Agreement or this Agreement or any provision therein or herein contained. The applicable Terms Agreement and this Agreement and all conditions and provisions thereof and hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the parties and their respective successors and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase. 13. Authority of the Representatives. Any action by the Underwriters hereunder may be taken by the Representatives on behalf of the Underwriters, and any such action taken by the Representatives shall be binding upon the Underwriters. 14. Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT AND EACH TERMS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. 15. Amendments or Waivers. No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto. 16. Headings. The headings herein are included for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of, or to affect the meaning or interpretation of, this Agreement. -19-
Very truly yours, BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION By: /s/ MILAN KOFOL --------------------------------------------- Name: Milan Kofol Title: Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations -20-
SCHEDULE I MATERIAL SUBSIDIARIES Guidant Corporation Guidant Sales Corporation Cardiac Pacemakers, Inc. Advanced Bionics Corporation Target Therapeutics, Inc. Boston Scientific Scimed, Inc. Guidant Luxembourg S. a r.l. Guidant Group B.V. Boston Scientific Japan K.K. Boston Scientific International B.V. Schneider (Europe) GmbH Boston Scientific Limited BSC International Holding Limited
EXHIBIT A BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION Debt Securities FORM OF TERMS AGREEMENT Dated:_________, _____ To: Boston Scientific Corporation One Boston Scientific Place Natick, Massachusetts 01760-1537 Ladies and Gentlemen: We understand that Boston Scientific Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell its Debt Securities having an aggregate initial public offering price or purchase price of $____ (as described in more detail below, the "Securities"). Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein or incorporated by reference herein, the underwriter(s) named below (the "Underwriter(s)") hereby offer(s) to purchase such Securities. The Securities to be purchased by the Underwriter(s), which are to be issued under an Indenture dated as of June 1, 2006, between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Trustee, as supplemented from time to time by supplemental indentures and/or modified from time to time by resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company or a Pricing Committee thereof as provided in Section 301 of such Indenture, shall have the following terms: Principal Amount: Date of maturity: Interest rate: Interest payment dates: Public offering price: Purchase price: Redemption provisions: Form of Securities: Delayed Delivery Contracts: Aggregate Underwriting % Discount: Purchase Price to be paid by A-1
Underwriters: Closing date and location: Representatives: Applicable Time: [ ][a/p]m Eastern Time on the date hereof. All of the provisions contained in the document entitled "Boston Scientific Corporation Debt Securities, Underwriting Agreement-Basic Provisions," dated as of ____________ __, _____, a copy of which is attached hereto as Annex A, are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein. Terms defined in such document are used herein as therein defined. Each Underwriter severally agrees, subject to the terms and provisions of this Terms Agreement, including the terms and provisions incorporated by reference herein, to purchase the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite its name. Name Principal Amount Total Any notice by the Company to the Underwriter(s) pursuant to this Terms Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication addressed to: ___________________________. Please accept this offer by signing a copy of this Terms Agreement in the space set forth below and returning the signed copy to us. Acting on behalf of themselves and as the Representatives of the several Underwriters By: ____________________________________ Name: Title: A-2
Accepted: BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION By: _______________________ Name: Title: A-3
Annex A - Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses A-4
Annex B - Final Term Sheet A-5
Annex C - Information Furnished by the Representatives A-6
EXHIBIT B BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION Debt Securities DELAYED DELIVERY CONTRACT ______________ ____,____ Boston Scientific Corporation c/o [Name and address of Representatives] Attention: Ladies and Gentlemen: The undersigned hereby agree to purchase from Boston Scientific Corporation (the "Company"), and the Company agrees to sell to the undersigned on __________ __, ____ (the "Delivery Date"), principal amount of the Company's Debt Securities due ___________ __, ____ (the "Securities"), offered by the Company's Basic Prospectus dated ____, as supplemented by its Final Prospectus dated ___________ __, ____, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, at a purchase price of ____% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest from ____, to the Delivery Date, and on the further terms and conditions set forth in the contract. Payment for the Securities which the undersigned has agreed to purchase on the Delivery Date shall be made to the Company or by wire transfer in same day funds, on the Delivery Date, upon delivery to the undersigned at the office of [name and address of Representatives], of the Securities to be purchased by the undersigned in definitive form and in such denominations and registered in such names as the undersigned may designate by written or telegraphic communication addressed to the Company not less than five full business days prior to the Delivery Date. The obligation of the undersigned to take delivery of and make payment for Securities on the Delivery Date shall be subject only to the conditions that (1) the purchase of Securities to be made by the undersigned shall not on the Delivery Date be prohibited under the laws of the jurisdiction to which the undersigned is subject and (2) the Company, on or before ___________ __, ____, shall have sold to the Underwriters of the Securities (the "Underwriters") such principal amount of the Securities as is to be sold to them pursuant to the Terms Agreement dated ___________ __, ____ between the Company and the Underwriters. The obligation of the undersigned to take delivery of and make payment for Securities shall not be affected by the failure of any purchaser to take delivery of and make payment for Securities pursuant to other contracts similar to this contract. The undersigned represents and warrants to you that its investment in the Securities is not, as of the date hereof, prohibited under the laws of any jurisdiction to which the undersigned is subject and which govern such investment. Promptly after completion of the sale to the Underwriters, the Company will mail or deliver to the undersigned at its address set forth below notice to such effect, accompanied by a copy of the opinion of counsel for the Company delivered to the Underwriters in connection therewith. By the execution hereof, the undersigned represents and warrants to the Company that all necessary corporate action for the due execution and delivery of this contract and the payment for and purchase of the Securities has been taken by it and no further authorization or approval of any governmental or other regulatory authority is required for such execution, delivery, payment or purchase, B-1
and that, upon acceptance hereof by the Company and mailing or delivery of a copy as provided below, this contract will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the undersigned in accordance with its terms. [Name of Purchaser] By: ______________________________ Name: Title: Accepted: BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION By: _____________________________ Name: Title: B-2
EXHIBIT C FORM OF OPINION OF SHEARMAN & STERLING LLP (i) the statements in the Basic Prospectus under the caption "Description of the Debt Securities" and the statements in the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the caption "Description of the Notes", insofar as such statements constitute summaries of documents referred to therein, fairly summarize in all material respects the documents referred to therein; (ii) the statements in the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the caption "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences", insofar as such statements constitute summaries of legal matters referred to therein, fairly summarize in all material respects the legal matters referred to therein; (iii) assuming that the Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and the Trustee, the Indenture is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally (including without limitation all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), and except as enforcement thereof is subject to the effect of general principles of equity, including without limitation concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law); (iv) assuming that the Notes have been duly authorized and executed by the Company, when the Notes have been authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and delivered and paid for as provided by the Underwriting Agreement, the Notes will be the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms and entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally (including without limitation all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), and except as enforcement thereof is subject to the effect of general principles of equity, including without limitation concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law); (v) the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended; (vi) to the best knowledge of such counsel, no authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any United States federal or New York governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement, except as have been obtained and are in full force and effect under the Securities Act or as may be required under the securities or blue sky laws of any jurisdiction in the United States in connection with the offer and sale of the Notes; (vii) the execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement, the Terms Agreement, the Indenture or the Notes do not, and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder will not, result in a violation of any Generally Applicable Law ; and (viii) the Company is not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. In addition, such opinion shall also contain a statement that such counsel has participated in discussions concerning preparation of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Final C-1
Prospectus with certain officers and employees of the Company, with its auditors and with your representatives and counsel. In such counsel's opinion, each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus (other than the financial statements and other financial data contained therein or omitted therefrom and the Trustee's Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1, as to which it shall express no opinion) appears on its face to be appropriately responsive in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder. Such counsel shall also state that, subject to the limitations set forth therein, on the basis of the information it gained in the course of performing the services referred to therein, no facts came to its attention which gave it reason to believe that (i) the Registration Statement (other than the financial statements and other financial data contained therein or omitted therefrom and the Trustee's Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1, as to which it has not been requested to comment), as of the Effective Date or any amendment thereof made prior to the date hereof as of the date of such amendment, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or (ii) the Disclosure Package (as of the Applicable Time) and the Final Prospectus (as of the date of the Final Prospectus or the date hereof) (other than the financial statements and other financial data contained therein or omitted therefrom, as to which we have not been requested to comment), contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. C-2
EXHIBIT D FORM OF OPINION OF LAWRENCE J. KNOPF (i) the Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware; (ii) the Company has corporate power and authority to own its properties and to conduct its business as now being conducted and as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus; (iii) the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation and is in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not have a Material Adverse Effect; (iv) each Material Subsidiary has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as now being conducted and as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, and is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not have a Material Adverse Effect; (v) except as otherwise described in the Registration Statement or the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company and each Material Subsidiary has been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and, to the best of my knowledge, all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each Material Subsidiary are owned by the Company (except for directors' qualifying shares and shares held by individuals for the purpose of satisfying the legal requirements of the jurisdiction of incorporation), directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interests, claims, liens or encumbrances; (vi) neither the execution and delivery of the Indenture, the issue and sale of the Notes, nor the consummation of any other of the transactions contemplated in the Underwriting Agreement nor the fulfillment of the terms of the Underwriting Agreement will conflict with, result in a breach of, violate or constitute a default under, the charter or by-laws of the Company or the terms of any indenture or other material agreement or instrument known to me and to which the Company or any of the Company's subsidiaries is a party or may be bound (except for such conflicts, breaches, violations or defaults that would not have a Material Adverse Effect), or any material judgment, decree, order statute, rule or regulation known to me to be applicable to the Company or any of the Company's subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body or arbitrator having jurisdiction over the Company or any of the Company's subsidiaries (except for such conflicts, breaches, violations or defaults that would not have a Material Adverse Effect); (vii) to my knowledge (A) there are no pending or threatened legal or governmental proceedings required to be described in or incorporated into the documents constituting Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus which are not described as required and (B) there is no franchise, contract or other document of a character required to be described in or incorporated into the Registration Statement or the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, or to be filed as an exhibit, which is not described or filed as required; and to my knowledge, the statements included or incorporated in the Disclosure Package and D-1
the Final Prospectus describing any legal proceedings or material contracts or agreements relating to the Company fairly summarize such matters in all material respects; (viii) the descriptions in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus of statutes, contracts and other documents are accurate and fairly present the information required to be shown in all material respects; (ix) the Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company; (x) the Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company; and (xi) the Notes have been duly authorized and executed by the Company; and As Assistant General Counsel, I have reviewed, and lawyers under my supervision have participated in the preparation of, the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, and I and lawyers under my supervision have participated in the preparation of, the documents incorporated by reference therein. In examining the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, I have necessarily assumed the correctness and completeness of the statements made or included therein by the Company. However, in the course of performing my duties as Assistant General Counsel of the Company, I and lawyers under my supervision have participated in conferences with officers and representatives of and accountants for the Company with respect to the matters contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, and no facts have come to my attention which would lead me to believe that either (i) the Registration Statement (except for the financial statements and schedules and other financial or statistical data included or incorporated by reference therein and the Statement of Eligibility of the Trustee on Form T-1, as to which I express no opinion), at Effective Date, or any amendment thereof made prior to the date hereof as of the date of such amendment, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or (ii) the Disclosure Package (as of the Applicable Time) or the Final Prospectus (as of its date and as of the date hereof) (except for the financial statements and schedules and other financial or statistical data included or incorporated by reference therein, as to which I express no opinion), contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. D-2
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION Debt Securities TERMS AGREEMENT Dated: June 6, 2006 To: Boston Scientific Corporation One Boston Scientific Place Natick, Massachusetts 01760-1537 Ladies and Gentlemen: We understand that Boston Scientific Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell its Debt Securities (as described in more detail below, the "Securities"). Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein or incorporated by reference herein, the underwriters named below (the "Underwriters") hereby offer to purchase such Securities. The Securities to be purchased by the Underwriters, which are to be issued under an Indenture to be dated as of June 1, 2006, between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Trustee, as supplemented from time to time by supplemental indentures and/or modified from time to time by resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company or a Pricing Committee thereof as provided in Section 301 of such Indenture, shall have the following terms:
Principal Amount: $600,000,000 of 6.000% notes due 2011 $600,000,000 of 6.400% notes due 2016 Dates of Maturity: June 15, 2011 June 15, 2016 Interest Rates: 6.000% for the 2011 notes 6.400% for the 2016 notes Interest Payment Dates: June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2006 Public Offering Price: 99.909% of principal amount of the 2011 notes 99.619% of principal amount of the 2016 notes Purchase Price: 99.309% of principal amount of the 2011 notes 98.969% of principal amount of the 2016 notes Redemption Provisions: As described in the Prospectus Supplement dated June 6, 2006 Form of Securities: Book-Entry Delayed Delivery Contracts: N/A Aggregate Underwriting 0.600% for the 2011 notes Discount: 0.650% for the 2016 notes
-1-
Purchase Price to be Paid by $595,854,000 for the 2011 notes Underwriters: $593,814,000 for the 2016 notes Closing Date and Location: June 9, 2006 Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP 80 Pine Street New York, NY 10005 Representatives: Merrill Lynch & Co. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated Banc of America Securities LLC Applicable Time: 5:10 pm Eastern Time on the date hereof.
All of the provisions contained in the document entitled "Boston Scientific Corporation Debt Securities, Underwriting Agreement-Basic Provisions," dated June 6, 2006 a copy of which is attached hereto as Annex A, are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein. Terms defined in such document are used herein as therein defined. Each Underwriter severally agrees, subject to the terms and provisions of this Terms Agreement, including the terms and provisions incorporated by reference herein, to purchase the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite its name. Any notice by the Company to the Underwriters pursuant to this Terms Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication addressed to: -2-
Banc of America Securities LLC at 40 West 57th Street, NY1-040-27-01, New York, NY 10019, Tel: 646-313-8798, Fax: 212-901-7881. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated at 4 World Financial Center, New York, NY 10080, Tel: (212) 449-4763, Fax: (212) 449-7171. -3-
Please accept this offer by signing a copy of this Terms Agreement in the space set forth below and returning the signed copy to us. Acting on behalf of themselves and as the Representatives of the several Underwriters named in this Terms Agreement MERRILL LYNCH & CO. MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED By: /s/ WYLIE COLLINS --------------------------------------- Name: Wylie Collins Title: Managing Director BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC By: /s/ LILY CHANG -------------------------------------- Name: Lily Chang Title: Principal -4-
Accepted: BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION By: /s/ MILAN KOFOL ---------------------------------------- Name: Milan Kofol Title: Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations -5-
Annex A - Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses The Final Term Sheet, attached to Annex B hereof. -6-
Annex B - Final Term Sheet Attached. -7-
Annex C - Information Furnished by the Representatives - - the names of the Underwriters on the cover page of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Final Prospectus - - the following information under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Final Prospectus: - the names of the Underwriters and their respective allocations - the first paragraph under the sub-heading "Commissions and Discount" - the third sentence under the sub-heading "New Issue of Notes" - the first paragraph under the sub-heading "Price Stabilization and Short Positions" -8-

EXECUTION COPY BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION TO JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Trustee ------------------------- Indenture Dated as of June 1, 2006 -------------------------
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION Reconciliation and tie between Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2006 - -------------- Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
TABLE OF CONTENTS - -------------- Note: This table of contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture i
SECTION 309. Persons Deemed Owners.............................................................................................. 35 SECTION 310. Cancellation....................................................................................................... 36 SECTION 311. Computation of Interest............................................................................................ 36 SECTION 312. Currency and Manner of Payments in Respect of Securities........................................................... 36 SECTION 313. Appointment and Resignation of Successor Exchange Rate Agent....................................................... 39 ARTICLE FOUR SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE SECTION 401. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture............................................................................ 40 SECTION 402. Application of Trust Money......................................................................................... 41 ARTICLE FIVE REMEDIES SECTION 501. Events of Default.................................................................................................. 42 SECTION 502. Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment................................................................. 43 SECTION 503. Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.................................................... 44 SECTION 504. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim................................................................................... 44 SECTION 505. Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities........................................................ 45 SECTION 506. Application of Money Collected..................................................................................... 45 SECTION 507. Limitation on Suits................................................................................................ 46 SECTION 508. Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest.......................................... 47 SECTION 509. Restoration of Rights and Remedies................................................................................. 47 SECTION 510. Rights and Remedies Cumulative..................................................................................... 47 SECTION 511. Delay or Omission Not Waiver....................................................................................... 47 SECTION 512. Control by Holders................................................................................................. 47 SECTION 513. Waiver of Past Defaults............................................................................................ 48 SECTION 514. Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws................................................................................... 48 ARTICLE SIX THE TRUSTEE SECTION 601. Notice of Defaults................................................................................................. 48 SECTION 602. Certain Duties, Responsibilities and Rights of Trustee............................................................. 49 SECTION 603. Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities..................................................... 51 SECTION 604. May Hold Securities................................................................................................ 51 SECTION 605. Money Held in Trust................................................................................................ 52 SECTION 606. Compensation and Reimbursement..................................................................................... 52 SECTION 607. Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility; Conflicting Interests; Disqualification................................... 52 SECTION 608. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.................................................................. 53 SECTION 609. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor............................................................................. 54 SECTION 610. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business........................................................ 55 SECTION 611. Appointment of Authenticating Agent................................................................................ 56
ii
ARTICLE SEVEN HOLDERS' LISTS AND REPORTS BY TRUSTEE AND COMPANY SECTION 701. Disclosure of Names and Addresses of Holders....................................................................... 57 SECTION 702. Reports by Trustee................................................................................................. 58 SECTION 703. Reports by Company................................................................................................. 58 ARTICLE EIGHT CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE SECTION 801. Company May Consolidate, etc., Only on Certain Terms............................................................... 59 SECTION 802. Successor Person Substituted....................................................................................... 59 ARTICLE NINE SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES SECTION 901. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders................................................................. 60 SECTION 902. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders.................................................................... 61 SECTION 903. Execution of Supplemental Indentures............................................................................... 62 SECTION 904. Effect of Supplemental Indentures.................................................................................. 62 SECTION 905. Conformity with Trust Indenture Act................................................................................ 62 SECTION 906. Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures................................................................. 62 SECTION 907. Notice of Supplemental Indentures.................................................................................. 62 SECTION 908. Effect on Senior Indebtedness...................................................................................... 63 ARTICLE TEN COVENANTS SECTION 1001. Payment of Principal, Premium, if any, and Interest............................................................... 63 SECTION 1002. Maintenance of Office or Agency................................................................................... 63 SECTION 1003. Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust................................................................. 64 SECTION 1004. Statement as to Compliance........................................................................................ 66 SECTION 1005. Additional Amounts................................................................................................ 66 SECTION 1006. Payment of Taxes and Other Claims................................................................................. 67 SECTION 1007. Maintenance of Principal Properties............................................................................... 67 SECTION 1008. Corporate Existence............................................................................................... 67 SECTION 1009. Limitation on Liens............................................................................................... 67 SECTION 1010. Waiver of Certain Covenants....................................................................................... 69 ARTICLE ELEVEN REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES SECTION 1101. Applicability of Article.......................................................................................... 69
iii
SECTION 1102. Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee............................................................................. 69 SECTION 1103. Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed................................................................. 69 SECTION 1104. Notice of Redemption.............................................................................................. 70 SECTION 1105. Deposit of Redemption Price....................................................................................... 71 SECTION 1106. Securities Payable on Redemption Date............................................................................. 71 SECTION 1107. Securities Redeemed in Part....................................................................................... 72 ARTICLE TWELVE SINKING FUNDS SECTION 1201. Applicability of Article.......................................................................................... 72 SECTION 1202. Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities............................................................. 73 SECTION 1203. Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund......................................................................... 73 ARTICLE THIRTEEN REPAYMENT AT OPTION OF HOLDERS SECTION 1301. Applicability of Article.......................................................................................... 74 SECTION 1302. Repayment of Securities........................................................................................... 74 SECTION 1303. Exercise of Option................................................................................................ 74 SECTION 1304. When Securities Presented for Repayment Become Due and Payable.................................................... 75 SECTION 1305. Securities Repaid in Part......................................................................................... 76 ARTICLE FOURTEEN DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE SECTION 1401. Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance...................................................... 76 SECTION 1402. Defeasance and Discharge.......................................................................................... 76 SECTION 1403. Covenant Defeasance............................................................................................... 77 SECTION 1404. Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance................................................................... 77 SECTION 1405. Deposited Money and Government Obligations to Be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions.................... 79 SECTION 1406. Reinstatement..................................................................................................... 80 ARTICLE FIFTEEN MEETINGS OF HOLDERS OF SECURITIES SECTION 1501. Purposes for Which Meetings May Be Called......................................................................... 80 SECTION 1502. Call, Notice and Place of Meetings................................................................................ 81 SECTION 1503. Persons Entitled to Vote at Meetings.............................................................................. 81 SECTION 1504. Quorum; Action.................................................................................................... 81 SECTION 1505. Determination of Voting Rights; Conduct and Adjournment of Meetings............................................... 82 SECTION 1506. Counting Votes and Recording Action of Meetings................................................................... 83
iv
ARTICLE SIXTEEN SUBORDINATION OF SECURITIES SECTION 1601. Agreement to Subordinate.......................................................................................... 84 SECTION 1602. Distribution on Dissolution, Liquidation and Reorganization; Subrogation of Securities............................ 84 SECTION 1603. No Payment on Securities in Event of Default on Senior Indebtedness............................................... 86 SECTION 1604. Payments on Securities Permitted.................................................................................. 86 SECTION 1605. Authorization of Holders to Trustee to Effect Subordination....................................................... 86 SECTION 1606. Notices to Trustee................................................................................................ 86 SECTION 1607. Trustee as Holder of Senior Indebtedness.......................................................................... 87 SECTION 1608. Modifications of Terms of Senior Indebtedness..................................................................... 87 SECTION 1609. Reliance on Judicial Order or Certificate of Liquidating Agent.................................................... 87 SECTION 1610. Satisfaction and Discharge; Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance.................................................... 88 EXHIBIT A FORMS OF CERTIFICATION
v
INDENTURE, dated as of June 1, 2006, between BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office at One Boston Scientific Place, Natick, Massachusetts 01760-1537, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee"). RECITALS OF THE COMPANY The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured senior or subordinated debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "Securities"), which may be convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any Person (including the Company), to be issued in one or more series as provided in this Indenture. This Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, that are required to be part of this Indenture and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions. All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done. NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH: For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows: ARTICLE ONE DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION SECTION 101. Definitions. For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires: (1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular; (2) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein, and the terms "cash transaction" and "self-liquidating paper", as used in TIA Section 311, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the rules of the Commission adopted under the Trust Indenture Act; (3) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted at the date of such computation; and
(4) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision. Certain terms, used principally in Article Three, are defined in that Article. "Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 104. "Additional Amounts" has the meaning specified in Section 1005. "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Authenticating Agent" means any Person appointed by the Trustee to act on behalf of the Trustee pursuant to Section 611 to authenticate Securities. "Authorized Newspaper" means a newspaper, in the English language or in an official language of the country of publication, customarily published on each Business Day, whether or not published on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, and of general circulation in each place in connection with which the term is used or in the financial community of each such place. Where successive publications are required to be made on the same or on different days of the week in Authorized Newspapers, the successive publications may be made in the same or in different newspapers in the same city meeting the foregoing requirements and in each case on any Business Day. "Bearer Security" means any Security except a Registered Security. "Board of Directors" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of that board. "Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee. "Business Day", when used with respect to any Place of Payment or any other particular location referred to in this Indenture or in the Securities, means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment or other location are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close. "Clearstream" means Clearstream, societe anonyme, or its successor. 2
"Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this Indenture such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time. "Common Depositary" has the meaning specified in Section 304. "Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person. "Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman, its President, any Vice President or its Treasurer, and delivered to the Trustee. "Consolidated Intangibles" means at any time, all amounts included in the Consolidated Net Worth of the Company at such time which, in accordance with GAAP, would be classified as intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, (a) goodwill, net of accumulated amortization, (other than negative goodwill), including any amounts (however designated on the balance sheet) representing the cost of acquisitions or investments in excess of the sum of (i) underlying net tangible assets and (ii) purchased research and development to the extent such costs will be expensed within 12 months of such acquisition or investment, or within 12 months from the time identification of such costs is required, and (b) patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intangibles, net of accumulated amortization. "Consolidated Net Worth" means at any time, all amounts which would, in accordance with GAAP, be included under shareholders' equity or classified as temporary equity, as prescribed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or by the Commission (i.e. contingent stock repurchase obligations), on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at such time, plus special charges (which would be designated as merger-related charges and expenses in the notes to the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements) incurred in merging of operations related to mergers and acquisitions. "Consolidated Tangible Assets" means at any date, the Consolidated Total Assets minus (without duplication) the net book value of all assets which would be treated as intangible assets, as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. "Consolidated Total Assets" means, at any date, the net book value of all assets of the Company and its subsidiaries as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. "Conversion Date" has the meaning specified in Section 312(d). "Conversion Event" means the cessation of use of (i) a Foreign Currency both by the government of the country which issued such Currency and by a central bank or other public institution of or within the international banking community for the settlement of transactions, (ii) the Euro both within the European Monetary System and for the settlement of transactions by 3
public institutions of or within the European Union or (iii) any currency unit (or composite currency) other than the Euro for the purposes for which it was established. "Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall principally be administered, which office on the date of execution of this instrument is located at 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor, New York, New York, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services, or such other office or address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Company. "corporation" includes corporations, associations, companies and business or statutory trusts. "coupon" means any interest coupon appertaining to a Bearer Security. "Currency" means any currency or currencies, composite currency or currency unit or currency units, including, without limitation, the Euro, issued by the government of one or more countries or by any recognized confederation or association of such governments. "Debt" means notes, bonds, debentures or other similar evidences of indebtedness for money borrowed. "Default" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default. "Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 307. "Depositary" means, with respect to Registered Securities of any series, for which the Company shall determine that such Registered Securities will be issued in permanent global form, The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, another clearing agency, or any successor registered as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act, or other applicable statute or regulations, which in each case, shall be designated by the Company pursuant to Section 301. "Dollar" or "$" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts. "Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit" has the meaning specified in Section 312(g). "Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency" has the meaning specified in Section 312(f). "Euro" means the basic unit of currency among participating European Union countries, as revised or replaced from time to time. "Election Date" has the meaning specified in Section 312(h). 4
"Euroclear" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. as operator of Euroclear System, and any successor thereto. "European Union" means the European Economic Community, the European Coal and Steel Community and the European Atomic Energy Community, as may be modified from time to time. "European Monetary System" means the European Monetary System established by the Resolution of December 5, 1978 of the Council of the European Communities. "Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 501. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "Exchange Date" has the meaning specified in Section 304. "Exchange Rate Agent" means, with respect to Securities of or within any series, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, a New York Clearing House bank, designated pursuant to Section 301 or Section 313. "Exchange Rate Officer's Certificate" means a tested telex or a certificate setting forth (i) the applicable Market Exchange Rate and (ii) the Dollar or Foreign Currency amounts of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any (on an aggregate basis and on the basis of a Security having the lowest denomination principal amount determined in accordance with Section 302 in the relevant Currency), payable with respect to a Security of any series on the basis of such Market Exchange Rate, sent (in the case of a telex) or signed (in the case of a certificate) by the Treasurer or any Vice President of the Company. "Federal Bankruptcy Code" means the Bankruptcy Act of Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended from time to time. "Foreign Currency" means any Currency other than Currency of the United States. "Government Obligations" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301, securities which are (i) direct obligations of the government which issued the Currency in which the Securities of a particular series are payable or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the government which issued the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed by such government, which, in either case, are full faith and credit obligations of such government payable in such Currency and are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such Government Obligation or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt; provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount 5
received by the custodian in respect of the Government Obligation or the specific payment of interest on or principal of the Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt. "Holder" means, in the case of a Registered Security, the Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register and, in the case of a Bearer Security, the bearer thereof and, when used with respect to any coupon, shall mean the bearer thereof. "Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 301; provided, however, that, if at any time more than one Person is acting as Trustee under this instrument, "Indenture" shall mean, with respect to any one or more series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee, this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee established as contemplated by Section 301, exclusive, however, of any provisions or terms which relate solely to other series of Securities for which such Person is not Trustee, regardless of when such terms or provisions were adopted, and exclusive of any provisions or terms adopted by means of one or more indentures supplemental hereto executed and delivered after such Person had become such Trustee but to which such Person, as such Trustee, was not a party. "Indexed Security" means a Security the terms of which provide that the principal amount thereof payable at Stated Maturity may be more or less than the principal face amount thereof at original issuance. "interest", when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity at the rate prescribed in such Original Issue Discount Security. "Interest Payment Date", when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security. "Lien" means any pledge, mortgage, lien, charge, encumbrance or other security interest. "Market Exchange Rate" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, (i) for any conversion involving a currency unit on the one hand and Dollars or any Foreign Currency on the other, the exchange rate between the relevant currency unit and Dollars or such Foreign Currency calculated by the method specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of the relevant series, (ii) for any conversion of Dollars into any Foreign Currency, the noon (New York City time) buying rate for such Foreign Currency for cable transfers quoted in New York City as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and (iii) for any conversion of one Foreign Currency into Dollars or another Foreign Currency, the spot rate at noon local time in the relevant market at which, in accordance with normal banking procedures, the Dollars or Foreign Currency into which conversion is being made could be purchased with the Foreign Currency from which conversion 6
is being made from major banks located in either New York City, London or any other principal market for Dollars or such purchased Foreign Currency, in each case determined by the Exchange Rate Agent. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, in the event of the unavailability of any of the exchange rates provided for in the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) and (iii), the Exchange Rate Agent shall use, in its sole discretion and without liability on its part, such quotation of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as of the most recent available date, or quotations from one or more major banks in New York City, London or another principal market for the Currency in question, or such other quotations as the Exchange Rate Agent shall deem appropriate. Unless otherwise specified by the Exchange Rate Agent, if there is more than one market for dealing in any Currency by reason of foreign exchange regulations or otherwise, the market to be used in respect of such Currency shall be that upon which a non-resident issuer of securities designated in such Currency would purchase such Currency in order to make payments in respect of such securities. "Maturity", when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, notice of redemption, notice of option to elect repayment or otherwise. "Officer's Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chairman, the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee. "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Company, including an employee of the Company, and who shall be acceptable to the Trustee. "Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502. "Outstanding", when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except: (i) Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; (ii) Securities, or portions thereof, for whose payment or redemption or repayment at the option of the Holder money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities and any coupons appertaining thereto; provided that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made; 7
(iii) Securities, except to the extent provided in Sections 1402 and 1403, with respect to which the Company has effected defeasance and/or covenant defeasance as provided in Article Fourteen; and (iv) Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 306 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder or are present at a meeting of Holders for quorum purposes, and for the purpose of making the calculations required by TIA Section 313, (i) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the amount of principal thereof that would be (or shall have been declared to be) due and payable, at the time of such determination, upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, (ii) the principal amount of any Security denominated in a Foreign Currency that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed Outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the Dollar equivalent, determined as of the date such Security is originally issued by the Company as set forth in an Exchange Rate Officer's Certificate delivered to the Trustee, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the Dollar equivalent as of such date of original issuance of the amount determined as provided in clause (i) above) of such Security, (iii) the principal amount of any Indexed Security that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the principal face amount of such Indexed Security at original issuance, unless otherwise provided with respect to such Security pursuant to Section 301, and (iv) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in making such calculation or in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor. "Paying Agent" means any Person (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) authorized by the Company to pay the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Securities on behalf of the Company. "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity. 8
"Place of Payment" means, when used with respect to the Securities of or within any series, the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Securities are payable as specified as contemplated by Sections 301 and 1002. "Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 306 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or a Security to which a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or the Security to which the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains, as the case may be. "Principal Property" means any plant, warehouse, technology center or other property, together with the land upon which it is erected and fixtures comprising a part thereof, owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary and located in the United States, the gross book value (without deduction of any reserve for depreciation) of which on the date as of which the determination is being made is an amount which exceeds 10% of Consolidated Net Worth, other than any such plant, warehouse, technology center or other property or any portion thereof (together with the land upon which it is erected and fixtures comprising a part thereof) which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, is not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole. "Receivables" means any accounts receivable of any Person, including without limitation, any thereof constituting or evidenced by chattel paper, instruments or intangibles (as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code of the State of New York), and all proceeds thereof and rights (contractual and other) and collateral related thereto. "Receivables Transaction" means any transactions or series of related transactions providing for the financing of Receivables of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. "Redemption Date", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, in whole or in part, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture. "Redemption Price", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture. "Registered Security" means any Security registered in the Security Register. "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Registered Securities of or within any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301. "Repayment Date" means, when used with respect to any Security to be repaid at the option of the Holder, the date fixed for such repayment pursuant to this Indenture. "Repayment Price" means, when used with respect to any Security to be repaid at the option of the Holder, the price at which it is to be repaid pursuant to this Indenture. 9
"Responsible Officer", when used with respect to the Trustee, shall mean any officer of the Trustee within the Conventional Debt unit of Worldwide Securities Services (or any successor unit or department) of the Trustee who is assigned by the Trustee and who has direct responsibility for administration of this Indenture and, for purposes of Section 601 or subparagraph (3)(b) of the first paragraph of Section 602 hereof, also includes any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of such officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject. "Securities" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture; provided, however, that if at any time there is more than one Person acting as Trustee under this Indenture, "Securities" with respect to the Indenture as to which such Person is Trustee shall have the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and shall more particularly mean Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, exclusive, however, of Securities of any series as to which such Person is not Trustee. "Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 305. "Senior Indebtedness" means the principal of (and premium, if any) and unpaid interest on (x) indebtedness of the Company (including indebtedness of others guaranteed by the Company), whether outstanding on the date hereof or thereafter created, incurred, assumed or guaranteed, for money borrowed other than (a) any indebtedness of the Company which when incurred and without respect to any election under Section 1111(b) of the Federal Bankruptcy Code, was without recourse to the Company, (b) any Indebtedness of the Company to any of its subsidiaries, (c) Indebtedness to any employee of the Company, (d) any liability for taxes and (e) Trade Payables, unless in the instrument creating or evidencing the same or pursuant to which the same is outstanding it is provided that such indebtedness is not senior or prior in right of payment to the Securities, and (y) renewals, extensions, modifications and refundings of any such indebtedness. This definition may be modified or superceded by a supplemental indenture. "Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Registered Securities of or within any series means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 307. "Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security or a coupon representing such installment of interest as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable, as such date may be extended pursuant to the provisions of Section 308. "Subsidiary" means any corporation of which at the time of determination the Company, directly and/or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries, owns more than 50% of the shares of Voting Stock. "Trade Payables" means accounts payable or any other indebtedness or monetary obligations to trade creditors created or assumed by the Company or any Subsidiary of the 10
Company in the ordinary course of business in connection with the obtaining of materials or services. "Trust Indenture Act" or "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this Indenture was executed, except as provided in Section 905. "Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder; provided, however, that if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean only the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series. "United States" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia), its territories, its possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction. "United States Person" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia or an estate or trust the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source. "Valuation Date" has the meaning specified in Section 312(c). "Vice President", when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "Vice President". "Voting Stock" means stock of the class or classes having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of a corporation (irrespective of whether or not at the time stock of any other class or classes shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency). "Yield to Maturity" means the yield to maturity, computed at the time of issuance of a Security (or, if applicable, at the most recent redetermination of interest on such Security) and as set forth in such Security in accordance with generally accepted United States bond yield computation principles. SECTION 102. Compliance Certificates and Opinions. Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture (including any covenant compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent) relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this 11
Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished. Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture (other than pursuant to Section 1004) shall include: (1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such individual to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such covenant or condition has been complied with. SECTION 103. Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee. In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion as to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents. Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his or her certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or opinion of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information as to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations as to such matters are erroneous. Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument. SECTION 104. Acts of Holders. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders of the Outstanding Securities of all series or one or more series, as the case may be, may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agents duly appointed in writing. If Securities of a series are 12
issuable as Bearer Securities, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series may, alternatively, be embodied in and evidenced by the record of Holders of Securities of such series voting in favor thereof, either in person or by proxies duly appointed in writing, at any meeting of Holders of Securities of such series duly called and held in accordance with the provisions of Article Fifteen, or a combination of such instruments and any such record. Except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments or record or both are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments and any such record (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments or so voting at any such meeting. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent, or of the holding by any Person of a Security, shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section. The record of any meeting of Holders of Securities shall be proved in the manner provided in Section 1506. (a) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him or her the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner that the Trustee deems sufficient. (b) The principal amount and serial numbers of Registered Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, shall be proved by the Security Register. (c) The principal amount and serial numbers of Bearer Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, may be proved by the production of such Bearer Securities or by a certificate executed, as depositary, by any trust company, bank, banker or other depositary, wherever situated, if such certificate shall be deemed by the Trustee to be satisfactory, showing that at the date therein mentioned such Person had on deposit with such depositary, or exhibited to it, the Bearer Securities therein described; or such facts may be proved by the certificate or affidavit of the Person holding such Bearer Securities, if such certificate or affidavit is deemed by the Trustee to be satisfactory. The Trustee and the Company may assume that such ownership of any Bearer Security continues until (1) another certificate or affidavit bearing a later date issued in respect of the same Bearer Security is produced, or (2) such Bearer Security is produced to the Trustee by some other Person, or (3) such Bearer Security is surrendered in exchange for a Registered Security, or (4) such Bearer Security is no longer Outstanding. The principal amount and serial numbers of Bearer Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, may also be proved in any other manner that the Trustee deems sufficient. (d) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders of Registered Securities any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company 13
may, at its option, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. Notwithstanding TIA Section 316(c), such record date shall be the record date specified in or pursuant to such Board Resolution, which shall be a date not earlier than the date 30 days prior to the first solicitation of Holders generally in connection therewith and not later than the date such solicitation is completed. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of Outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the Outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date; provided that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than eleven months after the record date. (e) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security. SECTION 105. Notices, etc. to Trustee and Company. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with, (1) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, ATTENTION: WORLDWIDE SECURITIES SERVICES, or (2) the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid or by overnight delivery service, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this Indenture or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company. SECTION 106. Notice to Holders; Waiver. Where this Indenture provides for notice of any event to Holders of Registered Securities by the Company or the Trustee, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each such Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders of Registered Securities is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders of Registered Securities or the sufficiency of any notice to Holders of Bearer Securities 14
given as provided herein. Any notice mailed to a Holder in the manner herein prescribed shall be conclusively deemed to have been received by such Holder, whether or not such Holder actually receives such notice. If by reason of the suspension of or irregularities in regular mail service or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impractical to mail notice of any event to Holders of Registered Securities when such notice is required to be given pursuant to any provision of this Indenture, then any manner of giving such notice as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee shall be deemed to be sufficient giving of such notice for every purpose hereunder. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein or otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of Bearer Securities of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given to Holders of Bearer Securities if published in an Authorized Newspaper in The City of New York and in such other city or cities as may be specified in such Securities on a Business Day at least twice, the first such publication to be not earlier than the earliest date, and not later than the latest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the date of the first such publication. If by reason of the suspension of publication of any Authorized Newspaper or Authorized Newspapers or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impracticable to publish any notice to Holders of Bearer Securities as provided above, then such notification to Holders of Bearer Securities as shall be given with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute sufficient notice to such Holders for every purpose hereunder. Neither the failure to give notice by publication to Holders of Bearer Securities as provided above, nor any defect in any notice so published, shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders of Bearer Securities or the sufficiency of any notice to Holders of Registered Securities given as provided herein. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver required or permitted under this Indenture shall be in the English language, except that any published notice may be in an official language of the country of publication. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver. SECTION 107. Effect of Headings and Table of Contents. The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. SECTION 108. Successors and Assigns. All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not. 15
SECTION 109. Separability Clause. In case any provision in this Indenture or in any Security or coupon shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. SECTION 110. Benefits of Indenture. Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities or coupons, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Securities Registrar and their successors hereunder and the Holders of Securities or coupons, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture. SECTION 111. Governing Law. THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES AND THE COUPONS SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. THIS INDENTURE IS SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE TRUST INDENTURE ACT THAT ARE REQUIRED TO BE PART OF THIS INDENTURE AND SHALL, TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE, BE GOVERNED BY SUCH PROVISIONS. SECTION 112. Legal Holidays. In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, sinking fund payment date or Stated Maturity or Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of any Security or coupon other than a provision in the Securities of any series which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section), payment of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date or sinking fund payment date, or at the Stated Maturity or Maturity; provided that no interest shall accrue for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, sinking fund payment date, Stated Maturity or Maturity, as the case may be. SECTION 113. No Recourse. No recourse for the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or interest on any Security or any coupons appertaining thereto, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in this Indenture or in any supplemental indenture, or in any Security or any coupons appertaining thereto, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any director, officer, employee, or stockholder as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any of its Affiliates or any successor Person of the Company, either directly or through the Company or any of its Affiliates or any successor Person of the Company, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that all such liability is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issue of the Securities. 16
ARTICLE TWO SECURITY FORMS SECTION 201. Forms Generally. The Registered Securities, if any, of each series and the Bearer Securities, if any, of each series and related coupons shall be in substantially the forms as shall be established by, or pursuant to a Board Resolution or, subject to Section 303, set forth in, or determined in the manner provided in, an Officer's Certificate pursuant to a Board Resolution, or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities or coupons, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities or coupons. If the forms of Securities or coupons of any series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 303 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities or coupons. Any portion of the text of any Security may be set forth on the reverse thereof, with an appropriate reference thereto on the face of the Security. Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, Bearer Securities shall have interest coupons attached. The Trustee's certificate of authentication on all Securities shall be in substantially the form set forth in this Article. The definitive Securities and coupons, if any, shall be printed, lithographed or engraved or produced by any combination of these methods on steel-engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers of the Company executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities or coupons. SECTION 202. Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication. Subject to Section 611, the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form: TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION Dated: ____________________ This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Trustee 17
By: _______________________________ Authorized Signatory SECTION 203. Securities Issuable in Global Form. If Securities of or within a series are issuable in global form, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, then, notwithstanding clause (8) of Section 301, any such Security shall represent such of the Outstanding Securities of such series as shall be specified therein and may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities of such series from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities of such series represented thereby may from time to time be increased or decreased to reflect exchanges. Any endorsement of a Security in global form to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person or Persons as shall be specified therein or in the Company Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 303 or Section 304. Subject to the provisions of Section 303 and, if applicable, Section 304, the Trustee shall deliver and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified therein or in the applicable Company Order. If a Company Order pursuant to Section 303 or Section 304 has been, or simultaneously is, delivered, any instructions by the Company with respect to endorsement or delivery or redelivery of a Security in global form shall be in writing but need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel. The provisions of the last sentence of Section 303 shall apply to any Security represented by a Security in global form if such Security was never issued and sold by the Company and the Company delivers to the Trustee the Security in global form together with written instructions (which need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) with regard to the reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby, together with the written statement contemplated by the last sentence of Section 303. Notwithstanding any provisions of Section 307 to the contrary, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on any Security in permanent global form shall be made to the Person or Persons specified therein. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 309 and except as provided in the preceding paragraph, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company and the Trustee shall treat as the Holder of such principal amount of Outstanding Securities represented by a permanent global Security (i) in the case of a permanent global Security in registered form, the Holder of such permanent global Security in registered form, or (ii) in the case of a permanent global Security in bearer form, Euroclear or Clearstream. 18
ARTICLE THREE THE SECURITIES SECTION 301. Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series. The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Securities may be subordinated in right of payment to Senior Indebtedness as provided in Article Sixteen. The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in one or more Board Resolutions or pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions and, subject to Section 303, set forth in, or determined in the manner provided in, an Officer's Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series, any or all of the following, as applicable (each of which (except for the matters set forth in clauses (1), (2) and (17) below), if so provided, may be determined from time to time by the Company with respect to unissued Securities of the series and set forth in such Securities of the series when issued from time to time): (1) the form and title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other series of Securities) and whether such Securities are senior or subordinated; (2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906, 1107 or 1305); (3) the date or dates, or the method by which such date or dates will be determined or extended, on which the principal of the Securities of the series shall be payable; (4) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method by which such rate or rates shall be determined, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable, the right, if any, of the Company to defer or extend an Interest Payment Date, and the Regular Record Date, if any, for the interest payable on any Registered Security on any Interest Payment Date, or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, and the basis upon which interest shall be calculated if other than on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months; (5) the place or places, if any, other than or in addition to the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on Securities of the series shall be payable, where any Registered Securities of the series may be surrendered for registration of transfer, where Securities of the series may be surrendered for exchange, where Securities of the series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as 19
applicable and, if different than the location specified in Section 106, the place or places where notices or demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of the series and this Indenture may be served; (6) the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, the Currency in which, and other terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company or a Holder thereof, if the Company or such Holder is to have that option; (7) the obligation or right, if any, of the Company to redeem, repay or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision or at the option of a Holder thereof, and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, the Currency in which, and other terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, repaid or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation; (8) if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denomination or denominations in which any Registered Securities of the series shall be issuable and, if other than denominations of $5,000, the denomination or denominations in which any Bearer Securities of the series shall be issuable; (9) if other than the Trustee, the identity of each Security Registrar and/or Paying Agent; (10) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series that shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502 or the method by which such portion shall be determined; (11) if other than Dollars, the Currency in which payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series shall be payable or in which the Securities of the series shall be denominated and the particular provisions applicable thereto in accordance with, in addition to or in lieu of any of the provisions of Section 312; (12) whether the amount of payments of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, formula or other method (which index, formula or method may be based, without limitation, on one or more Currencies, commodities, equity indices or other indices), and the manner in which such amounts shall be determined; (13) whether the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series are to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in a Currency other than that in which such Securities are denominated or stated to be payable, the period or periods within which (including the Election Date), and the terms and conditions upon which, such election may be made, and the time and manner of determining the exchange rate between the Currency in which such Securities are denominated or stated to be payable and the Currency in which such Securities are to be 20
so payable, in each case in accordance with, in addition to or in lieu of any of the provisions of Section 312; (14) the designation of the initial Exchange Rate Agent, if any, or any depositaries; (15) the applicability, if any, of Sections 1402 and/or 1403 to the Securities of the series and any provisions in modification of, in addition to or in lieu of any of the provisions of Article Fourteen that shall be applicable to the Securities of the series; (16) provisions, if any, granting special rights to the Holders of Securities of the series upon the occurrence of such events as may be specified; (17) any deletions from, modifications of or additions to the Events of Default or covenants of the Company with respect to Securities of the series, whether or not such Events of Default or covenants are consistent with the Events of Default or covenants set forth herein; (18) whether Securities of the series are to be issuable as Registered Securities, Bearer Securities (with or without coupons) or both, any restrictions applicable to the offer, sale or delivery of Bearer Securities, whether such Securities of any series are to be issuable initially in temporary global form and whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable in permanent global form with or without coupons and, if so, whether beneficial owners of interests in any such permanent global Security may exchange such interests for Securities of such series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination and the circumstances under which any such exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner provided in Section 305, whether Registered Securities of the series may be exchanged for Bearer Securities of the series (if permitted by applicable laws and regulations), and the circumstances under which and the place or places where any such exchanges may be made and if Securities of the series are to be issuable in global form, the identity and any temporary global security representing Outstanding Securities of any initial depository therefor; (19) the date as of which any Bearer Securities of the series and any temporary global security representing Outstanding Securities shall be dated if other than the date of original issuance of the first Security of the series to be issued; (20) the Person to whom any interest on any Registered Security of the series shall be payable, if other than the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, the manner in which, or the Person to whom, any interest on any Bearer Security of the series shall be payable, if otherwise than upon presentation and surrender of the coupons appertaining thereto as they severally mature, and the extent to which, or the manner in which, any interest payable on a temporary global Security on an Interest Payment Date will be paid if other than in the manner provided in Section 304; (21) if Securities of the series are to be issuable in definitive form (whether upon original issue or upon exchange of a temporary Security of such series) only upon 21
receipt of certain certificates or other documents or satisfaction of other conditions, the form and/or terms of such certificates, documents or conditions; (22) if the Securities of the series are to be issued upon the exercise of warrants, the time, manner and place for such Securities to be authenticated and delivered; (23) whether, under what circumstances and the Currency in which the Company will pay Additional Amounts as contemplated by Section 1005 on the Securities of the series to any Holder who is not a United States Person (including any modification to the definition of such term) in respect of any tax, assessment or governmental charge and, if so, whether the Company will have the option to redeem such Securities rather than pay such Additional Amounts (and the terms of any such option); (24) if the Securities of the series are to be convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any Person (including the Company), the terms and conditions upon which such Securities will be so convertible or exchangeable; (25) whether the Securities of such series are subject to subordination and the terms of such subordination; and (26) any other terms, conditions, rights and preferences (or limitations on such rights and preferences) relating to the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act or the provisions of this Indenture). All Securities of any one series and the coupons appertaining to any Bearer Securities of such series shall be substantially identical except, in the case of Registered Securities, as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to such Board Resolution or pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions (subject to Section 303) and set forth in such Officer's Certificate or in any such indenture supplemental hereto. Not all Securities of any one series need be issued at the same time, and, unless otherwise provided, a series may be reopened, without the consent of the Holders, for issuances of additional Securities of such series. If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions or pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions, such Board Resolutions shall be delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the issuance of the first Security of such series. SECTION 302. Denominations. The Securities of each series shall be issuable in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 301. With respect to Securities of any series denominated in Dollars, in the absence of any such provisions, the Registered Securities of such series, other than Registered Securities issued in global form (which may be of any denomination), shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof and the Bearer Securities of such series, other than the Bearer Securities issued in global form (which may be of any denomination), shall be issuable in the denomination of $5,000. 22
SECTION 303. Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating. The Securities and any coupons appertaining thereto shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman, its President or a Vice President, under its corporate seal affixed thereto or reproduced thereon attested by its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities or coupons may be the manual or facsimile signatures of the present or any future such authorized officer and may be imprinted or otherwise reproduced on the Securities. Securities or coupons bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities or coupons. At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series together with any coupon appertaining thereto, executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with such Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities; provided, however, that, in connection with its original issuance, no Bearer Security shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to any location in the United States; and provided further that, unless otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301, a Bearer Security may be delivered in connection with its original issuance only if the Person entitled to receive such Bearer Security shall have furnished a certificate in the form set forth in Exhibit A-1 to this Indenture, dated no earlier than 15 days prior to the earlier of the date on which such Bearer Security is delivered and the date on which any temporary Security first becomes exchangeable for such Bearer Security in accordance with the terms of such temporary Security and this Indenture. If any Security shall be represented by a permanent global Bearer Security, then, for purposes of this Section and Section 304, the notation of a beneficial owner's interest therein upon original issuance of such Security or upon exchange of a portion of a temporary global Security shall be deemed to be delivery in connection with its original issuance of such beneficial owner's interest in such permanent global Security. Except as permitted by Section 306, the Trustee shall not authenticate and deliver any Bearer Security unless all appurtenant coupons for interest then matured have been detached and cancelled. If not all the Securities of any series are to be issued at one time and if the Board Resolution, Officer's Certificate pursuant to a Board Resolution, or supplemental indenture establishing such series shall so permit, such Company Order may set forth procedures acceptable to the Trustee for the issuance of such Securities and determining terms of particular Securities of such series such as interest rate, stated maturity, date of issuance and date from which interest shall accrue. In authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating in effect (subject to customary exceptions): (a) that the form or forms of such Securities and any coupons have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; 23
(b) that the terms of such Securities and any coupons have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; (c) that such Securities, together with any coupons appertaining thereto, when completed by appropriate insertions and executed and delivered by the Company to the Trustee for authentication in accordance with this Indenture, authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in accordance with this Indenture and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will be the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally (including without limitation on all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), to general principles of equity; (d) that all laws and requirements in respect of the execution and delivery by the Company of such Securities, any coupons and of the supplemental indentures, if any, have been complied with and that authentication and delivery of such Securities and any coupons and the execution and delivery of the supplemental indenture, if any, by the Trustee will not violate the terms of the Indenture; (e) that the Company has the corporate power to issue such Securities and any coupons, and has duly taken all necessary corporate action with respect to such issuance; and (f) that the issuance of such Securities and any coupons will not contravene the articles of incorporation or by-laws of the Company or result in any violation of any of the terms or provisions of any law or regulation or of any indenture, mortgage or other agreement known to such Counsel by which the Company is bound. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 301 and of the preceding two paragraphs, if not all the Securities of any series are to be issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officer's Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 301 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs prior to or at the time of issuance of each Security, but such documents shall be delivered prior to or at the time of issuance of the first Security of such series. The Trustee shall not be required to authenticate and deliver any such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee. Each Registered Security shall be dated the date of its authentication and each Bearer Security shall be dated as of the date specified as contemplated by Section 301. No Security or coupon shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized officer, and such certificate upon any Security shall be 24
conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 310 together with a written statement (which need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) stating that such Security has never been issued and sold by the Company, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture. SECTION 304. Temporary Securities. Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, in registered form or, if authorized, in bearer form with one or more coupons or without coupons, and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities. Such temporary Securities may be in global form. Except in the case of temporary Securities in global form (which shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions of the following paragraphs), if temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series (accompanied by any unmatured coupons appertaining thereto), the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations; provided, however, that no definitive Bearer Security shall be delivered in exchange for a temporary Registered Security; and provided further that a definitive Bearer Security shall be delivered in exchange for a temporary Bearer Security only in compliance with the conditions set forth in Section 303. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series. If temporary Securities of any series are issued in global form, any such temporary global Security shall, unless otherwise provided therein, be delivered to the London office of a depositary or common depositary (the "Common Depositary"), for the benefit of Euroclear and Clearstream, for credit to the respective accounts of the beneficial owners of such Securities (or to such other accounts as they may direct). Without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the date specified in, or determined pursuant to the terms of, any such temporary global Security (the "Exchange Date"), the Company shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities, in aggregate principal amount 25
equal to the principal amount of such temporary global Security, executed by the Company. On or after the Exchange Date such temporary global Security shall be surrendered by the Common Depositary to the Trustee, as the Company's agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or from time to time in part, for definitive Securities without charge and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such temporary global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such temporary global Security to be exchanged. The definitive Securities to be delivered in exchange for any such temporary global Security shall be in bearer form, registered form, permanent global bearer form or permanent global registered form, or any combination thereof, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, and, if any combination thereof is so specified, as requested by the beneficial owner thereof; provided, however, that, unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, upon such presentation by the Common Depositary, such temporary global Security is accompanied by a certificate dated the Exchange Date or a subsequent date and signed by Euroclear as to the portion of such temporary global Security held for its account then to be exchanged and a certificate dated the Exchange Date or a subsequent date and signed by Clearstream as to the portion of such temporary global Security held for its account then to be exchanged, each in the form set forth in Exhibit A-2 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301); and provided further that definitive Bearer Securities shall be delivered in exchange for a portion of a temporary global Security only in compliance with the requirements of Section 303. Unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, the interest of a beneficial owner of Securities of a series in a temporary global Security shall be exchanged for definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor following the Exchange Date when the account holder instructs Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, to request such exchange on his behalf and delivers to Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, a certificate in the form set forth in Exhibit A-1 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301), dated no earlier than 15 days prior to the Exchange Date, copies of which certificate shall be available from the offices of Euroclear and Clearstream, the Trustee, any Authenticating Agent appointed for such series of Securities and each Paying Agent. Unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, any such exchange shall be made free of charge to the beneficial owners of such temporary global Security, except that a Person receiving definitive Securities must bear the cost of insurance, postage, transportation and the like in the event that such Person does not take delivery of such definitive Securities in person at the offices of Euroclear or Clearstream. Definitive Securities in bearer form to be delivered in exchange for any portion of a temporary global Security shall be delivered only outside the United States. Until exchanged in full as hereinabove provided, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor authenticated and delivered hereunder, except that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, interest payable on a temporary global Security on an Interest Payment Date for Securities of such series occurring prior to the applicable Exchange Date shall be payable to Euroclear and Clearstream on such Interest Payment Date upon delivery by Euroclear and Clearstream to the Trustee of a certificate or certificates in the form set forth in Exhibit A-2 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301), for credit without further interest thereon on or after such 26
Interest Payment Date to the respective accounts of the Persons who are the beneficial owners of such temporary global Security on such Interest Payment Date and who have each delivered to Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, a certificate dated no earlier than 15 days prior to the Interest Payment Date occurring prior to such Exchange Date in the form set forth in Exhibit A-1 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, the certifications made pursuant to this paragraph shall satisfy the certification requirements of the preceding two paragraphs of this Section and of the third paragraph of Section 303 of this Indenture and the interests of the Persons who are the beneficial owners of the temporary global Security with respect to which such certification was made will be exchanged for definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor on the Exchange Date or the date of certification if such date occurs after the Exchange Date, without further act or deed by such beneficial owners. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no payments of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, owing with respect to a beneficial interest in a temporary global Security will be made unless and until such interest in such temporary global Security shall have been exchanged for an interest in a definitive Security. Any interest so received by Euroclear and Clearstream and not paid as herein provided shall be returned to the Trustee immediately prior to the expiration of two years after such Interest Payment Date in order to be repaid to the Company in accordance with (but otherwise subject to) Section 1003. SECTION 305. Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange. The Company or the Trustee shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee a register for each series of Securities (the registers maintained in the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes referred to collectively as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Registered Securities and of transfers of Registered Securities; provided, however, that there shall be only one Security Register per series of Securities. The Security Register shall be in written form or any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time. At all reasonable times, the Security Register shall be open to inspection by the Trustee. The Trustee is hereby initially appointed as security registrar (the "Security Registrar") for the purpose of registering Registered Securities and transfers of Registered Securities as herein provided. Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Registered Security of any series at the office or agency in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee, one or more new Registered Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor. At the option of the Holder, Registered Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Registered Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination and of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Registered Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Registered Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Registered Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. Unless otherwise specified with 27
respect to any series of Securities as contemplated by Section 301, Bearer Securities may not be issued in exchange for Registered Securities. If (but only if) expressly permitted in or pursuant to the applicable Board Resolution and (subject to Section 303) set forth in the applicable Officer's Certificate, or in any indenture supplemental hereto, delivered as contemplated by Section 301, at the option of the Holder, Bearer Securities of any series may be exchanged for Registered Securities of the same series of any authorized denomination and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor, upon surrender of the Bearer Securities to be exchanged at any such office or agency, with all unmatured coupons and all matured coupons in default thereto appertaining. If the Holder of a Bearer Security is unable to produce any such unmatured coupon or coupons or matured coupon or coupons in default, any such permitted exchange may be effected if the Bearer Securities are accompanied by payment in funds acceptable to the Company in an amount equal to the face amount of such missing coupon or coupons, or the surrender of such missing coupon or coupons may be waived by the Company and the Trustee if there is furnished to them such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If thereafter the Holder of such Security shall surrender to any Paying Agent any such missing coupon in respect of which such a payment shall have been made, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount of such payment; provided, however, that, except as otherwise provided in Section 1002, interest represented by coupons shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of those coupons at an office or agency located outside the United States. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in case a Bearer Security of any series is surrendered at any such office or agency in a permitted exchange for a Registered Security of the same series and like tenor after the close of business at such office or agency on (i) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, such Bearer Security shall be surrendered without the coupon relating to such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, and interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of the Registered Security issued in exchange for such Bearer Security, but will be payable only to the Holder of such coupon when due in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, any permanent global Security shall be exchangeable only as provided in this paragraph. If any beneficial owner of an interest in a permanent global Security is entitled to exchange such interest for Securities of such series and of like tenor and principal amount of another authorized form and denomination, as specified as contemplated by Section 301 and provided that any applicable notice provided in the permanent global Security shall have been given, then without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the earliest date on which such interest may be so exchanged, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such beneficial owner's interest in 28
such permanent global Security, executed by the Company. On or after the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, such permanent global Security shall be surrendered by the Common Depositary or such other depositary as shall be specified in the Company Order with respect thereto to the Trustee, as the Company's agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or from time to time in part, for definitive Securities without charge, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such permanent global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such permanent global Security to be exchanged which, unless the Securities of the series are not issuable both as Bearer Securities and as Registered Securities, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, shall be in the form of Bearer Securities or Registered Securities, or any combination thereof, as shall be specified by the beneficial owner thereof; provided, however, that no such exchanges may occur during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before any selection of Securities to be redeemed and ending on the relevant Redemption Date if the Security for which exchange is requested may be among those selected for redemption; and provided, further, that no Bearer Security delivered in exchange for a portion of a permanent global Security shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to any location in the United States. If a Registered Security is issued in exchange for any portion of a permanent global Security after the close of business at the office or agency where such exchange occurs on (i) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of such Registered Security, but will be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, only to the Person to whom interest in respect of such portion of such permanent global Security is payable in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture. All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. Every Registered Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Security Registrar) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 906, 1107 or 1305 not involving any transfer. If at any time the Depositary for any permanent global Registered Securities of any series notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such 29
permanent global Registered Securities or if at any time the Depositary for such permanent global Registered Securities shall no longer be eligible under applicable law, the Company shall appoint a successor Depositary eligible under applicable law with respect to such permanent global Registered Securities. If a successor Depositary eligible under applicable law for such Registered Global Securities is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of the Company's order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor, will authenticate and deliver such definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor, in any authorized denominations, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such permanent global Registered Securities, in exchange for such permanent global Registered Securities. The Company may at any time and in its sole discretion determine that any permanent global Registered Securities of any series shall no longer be maintained in global form. In such event the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of the Company's order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor, will authenticate and deliver, definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor in any authorized denominations, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such permanent global Registered Securities, in exchange for such permanent global Registered Securities. The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the selection for redemption of Securities of that series under Section 1103 or 1203 and ending at the close of business on (A) if Securities of the series are issuable only as Registered Securities, the day of the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption and (B) if Securities of the series are issuable as Bearer Securities, the day of the first publication of the relevant notice of redemption or, if Securities of the series are also issuable as Registered Securities and there is no publication, the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption, or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Registered Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part, or (iii) to exchange any Bearer Security so selected for redemption except that such a Bearer Security may be exchanged for a Registered Security of that series and like tenor; provided that such Registered Security shall be simultaneously surrendered for redemption, or (iv) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security which has been surrendered for repayment at the option of the Holder, except the portion, if any, of such Security not to be so repaid. The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer that may be imposed under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of any series pursuant to the terms thereof established as contemplated by Section 301 or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any such Security (including any transfers between or among any depositary (including any Depositary or Common Depositary), or its nominee, as a Holder of a Security issued in global form, any participants in such depositary or owners or holders of beneficial interests in any such global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by, the terms of such 30
Securities if and as may be so established in respect of such Securities, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements thereof. SECTION 306. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities. If any mutilated Security or a Security with a mutilated coupon appertaining to it is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, with coupons corresponding to the coupons, if any, appertaining to the surrendered Security, or, in case any such mutilated Security or coupon has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, with coupons corresponding to the coupons, if any, appertaining to the surrendered Security, pay such Security or coupon. If there shall be delivered to the Company and to the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security or coupon and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security or coupon has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security or in exchange for the Security for which a destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains (with all appurtenant coupons not destroyed, lost or stolen), a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, with coupons corresponding to the coupons, if any, appertaining to such destroyed, lost or stolen Security or to the Security to which such destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains. Notwithstanding the provisions of the previous two paragraphs, in case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or coupon has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, with coupons corresponding to the coupons, if any, appertaining to such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or to the Security to which such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains, pay such Security or coupon; provided, however, that payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on Bearer Securities shall, except as otherwise provided in Section 1002, be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, any interest on Bearer Securities shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of the coupons appertaining thereto. Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith. Every new Security of any series with its coupons, if any, issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or in exchange for a Security to which a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains, shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security and its coupons, if any, or the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon shall be 31
at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series and their coupons, if any, duly issued hereunder. The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities or coupons. SECTION 307. Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved; Optional Interest Reset. (a) Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 301, interest, if any, on any Registered Security that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose pursuant to Section 1002; provided, however, that each installment of interest, if any, on any Registered Security may at the Company's option be paid by (i) mailing a check for such interest, payable to or upon the written order of the Person entitled thereto pursuant to Section 309, to the address of such Person as it appears on the Security Register or (ii) transfer to an account maintained by the payee with a bank located in the United States. Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to the Securities of any series, payment of interest, if any, may be made, in the case of a Bearer Security, by transfer to an account maintained by the payee with a bank located outside the United States. Any interest on any Registered Security of any series that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such defaulted interest and, if applicable, interest on such defaulted interest (to the extent lawful) at the rate specified in the Securities of such series (such defaulted interest and, if applicable, interest thereon herein collectively called "Defaulted Interest") may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (1) or (2) below: (1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Registered Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Registered Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit on or prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the 32
Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be given in the manner provided in Section 106, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so given, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose name the Registered Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (2). (2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Registered Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee. (b) The provisions of this Section 307(b) may be made applicable to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301 (with such modifications, additions or substitutions as may be specified pursuant to such Section 301). The interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) on any Security of such series may be reset by the Company on the date or dates specified on the face of such Security (each an "Optional Reset Date"). The Company may exercise such option with respect to such Security by notifying the Trustee of such exercise at least 50 but not more than 60 days prior to an Optional Reset Date for such Security. Not later than 40 days prior to each Optional Reset Date, the Trustee shall transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, to the Holder of any such Security a notice (the "Reset Notice") indicating whether the Company has elected to reset the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable), and if so (i) such new interest rate (or such new spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) and (ii) the provisions, if any, for redemption during the period from such Optional Reset Date to the next Optional Reset Date or if there is no such next Optional Reset Date, to the Stated Maturity Date of such Security (each such period a "Subsequent Interest Period"), including the date or dates on which or the period or periods during which and the price or prices at which such redemption may occur during the Subsequent Interest Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, not later than 20 days prior to the Optional Reset Date, the Company may, at its option, revoke the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) provided for in the Reset Notice and establish an interest rate (or a spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) that is higher than the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) provided for in the Reset Notice, for the Subsequent Interest Period by causing the Trustee to transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, notice of such higher interest rate (or such higher spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) to the Holder of such Security. Such notice shall be irrevocable. 33
All Securities with respect to which the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) is reset on an Optional Reset Date, and with respect to which the Holders of such Securities have not tendered such Securities for repayment (or have validly revoked any such tender) pursuant to the next succeeding paragraph, will bear such higher interest rate (or such higher spread or spread multiplier, if applicable). The Holder of any such Security will have the option to elect repayment by the Company of the principal of such Security on each Optional Reset Date at a price equal to the principal amount thereof plus interest accrued to such Optional Reset Date. In order to obtain repayment on an Optional Reset Date, the Holder must follow the procedures set forth in Article Thirteen for repayment at the option of Holders except that the period for delivery or notification to the Trustee shall be at least 25 but not more than 35 days prior to such Optional Reset Date and except that, if the Holder has tendered any Security for repayment pursuant to the Reset Notice, the Holder may, by written notice to the Trustee, revoke such tender or repayment until the close of business on the tenth day before such Optional Reset Date. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section and Section 305, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security. SECTION 308. Optional Extension of Stated Maturity. The provisions of this Section 308 may be made applicable to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301 (with such modifications, additions or substitutions as may be specified pursuant to such Section 301). The Stated Maturity of any Security of such series may be extended at the option of the Company for the period or periods specified on the face of such Security (each an "Extension Period") up to but not beyond the date (the "Final Maturity") set forth on the face of such Security. The Company may exercise such option with respect to any Security by notifying the Trustee of such exercise at least 50 but not more than 60 days prior to the Stated Maturity of such Security in effect prior to the exercise of such option (the "Original Stated Maturity"). If the Company exercises such option, the Trustee shall transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, to the Holder of such Security not later than 40 days prior to the Original Stated Maturity a notice (the "Extension Notice") indicating (i) the election of the Company to extend the Stated Maturity, (ii) the new Stated Maturity, (iii) the interest rate, if any, applicable to the Extension Period and (iv) the provisions, if any, for redemption during such Extension Period. Upon the Trustee's transmittal of the Extension Notice, the Stated Maturity of such Security shall be extended automatically and, except as modified by the Extension Notice and as described in the next paragraph, such Security will have the same terms as prior to the transmittal of such Extension Notice. Notwithstanding the foregoing, not later than 20 days before the Original Stated Maturity of such Security, the Company may, at its option, revoke the interest rate provided for in the Extension Notice and establish a higher interest rate for the Extension Period by causing the Trustee to transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, notice of such higher interest rate to the Holder of such Security. Such notice shall be irrevocable. All Securities with respect to which the Stated Maturity is extended will bear such higher interest rate. 34
If the Company extends the Maturity of any Security, the Holder will have the option to elect repayment of such Security by the Company on the Original Stated Maturity at a price equal to the principal amount thereof, plus interest accrued to such date. In order to obtain repayment on the Original Stated Maturity once the Company has extended the Maturity thereof, the Holder must follow the procedures set forth in Article Thirteen for repayment at the option of Holders, except that the period for delivery or notification to the Trustee shall be at least 25 but not more than 35 days prior to the Original Stated Maturity and except that, if the Holder has tendered any Security for repayment pursuant to an Extension Notice, the Holder may by written notice to the Trustee revoke such tender for repayment until the close of business on the tenth day before the Original Stated Maturity. SECTION 309. Persons Deemed Owners. Prior to due presentment of a Registered Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Registered Security is registered as the owner of such Registered Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Sections 305 and 307) interest, if any, on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary. Title to any Bearer Security and any coupons appertaining thereto shall pass by delivery. The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the bearer of any Bearer Security and the bearer of any coupon as the absolute owner of such Security or coupon for the purpose of receiving payment thereof or on account thereof and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security or coupons be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary. None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Security in global form or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests. The Company, the Trustee and the Securities Registrar shall be entitled to deal with any depositary (including any Depositary or Common Depositary), and any nominee thereof, that is the Holder of any such global Security for all purposes of this Indenture relating to such global Security (including the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest and Additional Amounts, if any, and the giving of instructions or directions by or to the owner or holder of a beneficial ownership interest in such global Security) as the sole Holder of such global Security and shall have no obligations to the beneficial owners thereof. None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any acts or omissions of any such depositary with respect to such global Security, for the records of any such depositary, including records in respect of beneficial ownership interests in respect of any such global Security, for any transactions between such depositary and any participant in such depositary or between or among any such depositary, any such participant and/or any holder or owner of a beneficial interest in such global Security or for any transfers of beneficial interests in any such global Security. 35
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any global Security, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee, or any agent of the Company or the Trustee, from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by any depositary (including any Depositary or Common Depositary), as a Holder, with respect to such global Security or impair, as between such depositary and owners of beneficial interests in such global Security, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of such depositary (or its nominee) as Holder of such global Security. SECTION 310. Cancellation. All Securities and coupons surrendered for payment, redemption, repayment at the option of the Holder, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any current or future sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee. All Securities and coupons so delivered to the Trustee shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. If the Company shall so acquire any of the Securities, however, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Securities unless and until the same are surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with its customary procedures and, if requested by the Company in writing, certification of their disposal delivered to the Company, unless by Company Order the Company shall timely direct that cancelled Securities be returned to it. SECTION 311. Computation of Interest. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any Securities, interest, if any, on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. SECTION 312. Currency and Manner of Payments in Respect of Securities. (a) With respect to Registered Securities of any series not permitting the election provided for in paragraph (b) below or the Holders of which have not made the election provided for in paragraph (b) below, and with respect to Bearer Securities of any series, except as provided in paragraph (d) below, payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on any Registered or Bearer Security of such series will be made in the Currency in which such Registered Security or Bearer Security, as the case may be, is payable. The provisions of this Section 312 may be modified or superseded with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301. (b) It may be provided pursuant to Section 301 with respect to Registered Securities of any series that Holders shall have the option, subject to paragraphs (d) and (e) below, to receive payments of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on such Registered Securities in any of the Currencies which may be designated for such election by delivering to the Trustee a written election with signature guarantees and in the applicable form established pursuant to Section 301, not later than the close of business on the Election Date 36
immediately preceding the applicable payment date. If a Holder so elects to receive such payments in any such Currency, such election will remain in effect for such Holder or any transferee of such Holder until changed by such Holder or such transferee by written notice to the Trustee (but any such change must be made not later than the close of business on the Election Date immediately preceding the next payment date to be effective for the payment to be made on such payment date and no such change of election may be made with respect to payments to be made on any Registered Security of such series with respect to which an Event of Default has occurred or with respect to which the Company has deposited funds pursuant to Article Four or Fourteen or with respect to which a notice of redemption has been given by the Company or a notice of option to elect repayment has been sent by such Holder or such transferee). Any Holder of any such Registered Security who shall not have delivered any such election to the Trustee not later than the close of business on the applicable Election Date will be paid the amount due on the applicable payment date in the relevant Currency as provided in Section 312(a). The Trustee shall notify the Exchange Rate Agent as soon as practicable after the Election Date of the aggregate principal amount of Registered Securities for which Holders have made such written election. (c) Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, if the election referred to in paragraph (b) above has been provided for pursuant to Section 301, then, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, not later than the fourth Business Day after the Election Date for each payment date for Registered Securities of any series, the Exchange Rate Agent will deliver to the Company a written notice specifying, in the Currency in which Registered Securities of such series are payable, the respective aggregate amounts of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Registered Securities to be paid on such payment date, specifying the amounts in such Currency so payable in respect of the Registered Securities as to which the Holders of Registered Securities of such series shall have elected to be paid in another Currency as provided in paragraph (b) above. If the election referred to in paragraph (b) above has been provided for pursuant to Section 301 and if at least one Holder has made such election, then, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, on the second Business Day preceding such payment date the Company will deliver to the Trustee for such series of Registered Securities an Exchange Rate Officer's Certificate in respect of the Dollar or Foreign Currency payments to be made on such payment date. Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, the Dollar or Foreign Currency amount receivable by Holders of Registered Securities who have elected payment in a Currency as provided in paragraph (b) above shall be determined by the Company on the basis of the applicable Market Exchange Rate in effect on the third Business Day (the "Valuation Date") immediately preceding each payment date, and such determination shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error. (d) If a Conversion Event occurs with respect to a Foreign Currency in which any of the Securities are denominated or payable other than pursuant to an election provided for pursuant to paragraph (b) above, then with respect to each date for the payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the applicable Securities denominated or payable in such Foreign Currency occurring after the last date on which such Foreign Currency was used (the "Conversion Date"), the Dollar shall be the Currency of payment for use on each such payment date. Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, the Dollar amount to be paid by the Company to the Trustee and by the Trustee or any Paying Agent to the Holders of such Securities with respect to such payment date shall be, in the case of a Foreign Currency other 37
than a currency unit, the Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency or, in the case of a currency unit, the Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit, in each case as determined by the Exchange Rate Agent in the manner provided in paragraph (f) or (g) below. (e) Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, if the Holder of a Registered Security denominated in any Currency shall have elected to be paid in another Currency as provided in paragraph (b) above, and a Conversion Event occurs with respect to such elected Currency, such Holder shall receive payment in the Currency in which payment would have been made in the absence of such election; and if a Conversion Event occurs with respect to the Currency in which payment would have been made in the absence of such election, such Holder shall receive payment in Dollars as provided in paragraph (d) above. (f) The "Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency" shall be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent and shall be obtained for each subsequent payment date by converting the specified Foreign Currency into Dollars at the Market Exchange Rate on the Conversion Date. (g) The "Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit" shall be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent and subject to the provisions of paragraph (h) below shall be the sum of each amount obtained by converting the Specified Amount of each Component Currency into Dollars at the Market Exchange Rate for such Component Currency on the Valuation Date with respect to each payment. (h) For purposes of this Section 312, the following terms shall have the following meanings: A "Component Currency" shall mean any Currency which, on the Conversion Date, was a component currency of the relevant currency unit, including, but not limited to, the Euro. A "Specified Amount" of a Component Currency shall mean the number of units of such Component Currency or fractions thereof which were represented in the relevant currency unit, including, but not limited to, the Euro, on the Conversion Date. If after the Conversion Date the official unit of any Component Currency is altered by way of combination or subdivision, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall be divided or multiplied in the same proportion. If after the Conversion Date two or more Component Currencies are consolidated into a single currency, the respective Specified Amounts of such Component Currencies shall be replaced by an amount in such single Currency equal to the sum of the respective Specified Amounts of such consolidated Component Currencies expressed in such single Currency, and such amount shall thereafter be a Specified Amount and such single Currency shall thereafter be a Component Currency. If after the Conversion Date any Component Currency shall be divided into two or more currencies, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall be replaced by amounts of such two or more currencies, having an aggregate Dollar Equivalent value at the Market Exchange Rate on the date of such replacement equal to the Dollar Equivalent value of the Specified Amount of such former Component Currency at the Market Exchange Rate immediately before such division and such 38
amounts shall thereafter be Specified Amounts and such currencies shall thereafter be Component Currencies. If, after the Conversion Date of the relevant currency unit, including, but not limited to, the Euro, a Conversion Event (other than any event referred to above in this definition of "Specified Amount") occurs with respect to any Component Currency of such currency unit and is continuing on the applicable Valuation Date, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall, for purposes of calculating the Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit, be converted into Dollars at the Market Exchange Rate in effect on the Conversion Date of such Component Currency. "Election Date" shall mean the date for any series of Registered Securities as specified pursuant to clause (13) of Section 301 by which the written election referred to in Section 312(b) above may be made. All decisions and determinations of the Exchange Rate Agent regarding the Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency, the Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit, the Market Exchange Rate and changes in the Specified Amounts as specified above shall be in its sole discretion and shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive for all purposes and irrevocably binding upon the Company, the Trustee and all Holders of such Securities denominated or payable in the relevant Currency. The Exchange Rate Agent shall promptly give written notice to the Company and the Trustee of any such decision or determination. In the event that the Company determines in good faith that a Conversion Event has occurred with respect to a Foreign Currency, the Company will immediately give written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Exchange Rate Agent (and the Trustee will promptly thereafter give notice in the manner provided for in Section 106 to the affected Holders) specifying the Conversion Date. In the event the Company so determines that a Conversion Event has occurred with respect to the Euro or any other currency unit in which Securities are denominated or payable, the Company will immediately give written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Exchange Rate Agent (and the Trustee will promptly thereafter give notice in the manner provided for in Section 106 to the affected Holders) specifying the Conversion Date and the Specified Amount of each Component Currency on the Conversion Date. In the event the Company determines in good faith that any subsequent change in any Component Currency as set forth in the definition of Specified Amount above has occurred, the Company will similarly give written notice to the Trustee and the Exchange Rate Agent. The Trustee shall be fully justified and protected in relying and acting upon information received by it from the Company and the Exchange Rate Agent and shall not otherwise have any duty or obligation to determine the accuracy or validity of such information independent of the Company or the Exchange Rate Agent. SECTION 313. Appointment and Resignation of Successor Exchange Rate Agent. (a) Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, if and so long as the Securities of any series (i) are denominated in a Currency other than Dollars or (ii) may be payable in a Currency other than Dollars, or so long as it is required under any other provision of this Indenture, then the Company will maintain with respect to each such series of Securities, or as so required, at least one Exchange Rate Agent. The Company will cause the Exchange Rate Agent to make the necessary foreign exchange determinations at the time and in the manner specified pursuant to Section 301 for the purpose of determining the applicable rate of exchange and, if 39
applicable, for the purpose of converting the issued Currency into the applicable payment Currency for the payment of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, pursuant to Section 312. (b) No resignation of the Exchange Rate Agent and no appointment of a successor Exchange Rate Agent pursuant to this Section shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Exchange Rate Agent as evidenced by a written instrument delivered to the Company and the Trustee. (c) If the Exchange Rate Agent shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of the Exchange Rate Agent for any cause with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Exchange Rate Agent or Exchange Rate Agents with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Exchange Rate Agent may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, at any time there shall only be one Exchange Rate Agent with respect to the Securities of any particular series that are originally issued by the Company on the same date and that are initially denominated and/or payable in the same Currency). ARTICLE FOUR SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE SECTION 401. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture. This Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect with respect to any series of Securities specified in such Company Request (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities of such series expressly provided for herein or pursuant hereto and any right to receive Additional Amounts as contemplated by Section 1005) and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as to such series when (1) either (A) all Securities of such series theretofore authenticated and delivered and all coupons, if any, appertaining thereto (other than (i) coupons appertaining to Bearer Securities surrendered for exchange for Registered Securities and maturing after such exchange, whose surrender is not required or has been waived as provided in Section 305, (ii) Securities and coupons of such series which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 306, (iii) coupons appertaining to Securities called for redemption and maturing after the relevant Redemption Date, whose surrender has been waived as provided in Section 1106, and (iv) Securities and coupons of such series for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust with the Trustee or any Paying Agent or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 1003) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or 40
(B) all Securities of such series and, in the case of (i) or (ii) below, any coupons appertaining thereto not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation (i) have become due and payable, or (ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or (iii) if redeemable at the option of the Company, are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company, and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for such purpose an amount in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable, sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be; (2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as to such series have been complied with. Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 606, the obligations of the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent under Section 611 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 1003, the last sentence of Section 1005, and the penultimate paragraph of Section 1405 shall survive. SECTION 402. Application of Trust Money. Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities, the coupons and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. Money so held in trust (i) is not subject to Article Sixteen and (ii) is subject to the Trustee's rights under Section 606. 41
ARTICLE FIVE REMEDIES SECTION 501. Events of Default. "Event of Default", wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body): (1) default in the payment of any interest on any Security of that series, or any related coupon, when such interest or coupon becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or (2) default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of that series at its Maturity; or (3) default in the deposit of any sinking fund payment, when and as due by the terms of the Securities of that series and Article Twelve; or (4) default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or agreement of the Company in this Indenture which affects or is applicable to the Securities of that series (other than a default in the performance, or breach of a covenant or agreement which is specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Section), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 60 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or (5) the entry of a decree or order by a court having jurisdiction in the premises adjudging the Company as bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under the Federal Bankruptcy Code or any other applicable federal or state law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or (6) the institution by the Company of proceedings to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the institution of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under the Federal Bankruptcy Code or any other applicable federal or state law, or the consent by it to the filing of any such petition or to the appointment of a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or the making 42
by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due; or (7) any other Event of Default provided pursuant to Section 301 or 901 with respect to Securities of that series. SECTION 502. Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment. If an Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (7) of Section 501 with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities or Indexed Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all of the Securities of that series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified portion thereof) shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Sections 501(5) or 501(6) occurs and is continuing, then the principal amount of all the Securities then Outstanding (or, if any such Securities are Original Issue Discount Securities or Indexed Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) shall ipso facto become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. At any time after a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series (or of all series, as the case may be) has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter provided in this Article, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be), by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if (1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)), (A) all overdue interest, if any, on all Outstanding Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be) and any related coupons, (B) all unpaid principal of (and premium, if any) any Outstanding Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be) which has become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration, and interest on such unpaid principal at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, (C) interest on overdue interest, if any, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and (D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel; and 43
(2) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be), other than the non-payment of amounts of principal of (or premium, if any, on) or interest on Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be) which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 513. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon. SECTION 503. Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee. The Company covenants that if (1) default is made in the payment of any installment of interest on any Security and any related coupon when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or (2) default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof and such default continues for a period of 5 Business Days, then the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to the Trustee for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities and coupons, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities and coupons for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, and interest on any overdue principal (and premium, if any) and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel. If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated. If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series (or of all series, as the case may be) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series (or of all series, as the case may be) by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy. SECTION 504. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim. In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made 44
any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal, premium, if any, or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, (i) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal (and premium, if any), or such portion of the principal amount of any series of Original Issue Discount Securities or Indexed Securities as may be specified in the terms of such series, and interest, if any, owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and (ii) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 606. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding. SECTION 505. Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities. All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities or coupons may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or coupons or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities and coupons in respect of which such judgment has been recovered. SECTION 506. Application of Money Collected. Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article and any money or other property distributable in respect of the Company's obligations under this Indenture after an Event of Default shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, upon presentation of the Securities or coupons, or both, as the case may be, and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid: First: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee (including any predecessor Trustee) under Section 606; 45
Second: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities and coupons in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities and coupons for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, respectively; and Third: To the payment of the balance, if any, to the Person or Persons designated in writing by the Company. SECTION 507. Limitation on Suits. No Holder of any Security of any series or any related coupons shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless (1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series; (2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4), or (7) of Section 501, or, in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (5) or (6) of Section 501, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities, shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder; (3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request; (4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and (5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority or more in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (7) of Section 501, or, in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (5) or (6) of Section 501, by the Holders of a majority or more in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities; it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders of Securities of the same series, in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (7) of Section 501, or of Holders of all Securities in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (5) or (6) of Section 501, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all Holders of Securities of the same series, in the case of any Event of Default 46
described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (7) of Section 501, or of Holders of all Securities in the case of any Event of Default described in clause (5) or (6) of Section 501. SECTION 508. Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment, as provided herein (including, if applicable, Article Fourteen) and in such Security, of the principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Section 307) interest, if any, on, such Security or payment of such coupon on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security or coupon (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder. SECTION 509. Restoration of Rights and Remedies. If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted. SECTION 510. Rights and Remedies Cumulative. Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities or coupons in the last paragraph of Section 306, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities or coupons is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy. SECTION 511. Delay or Omission Not Waiver. No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security or coupon to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be. SECTION 512. Control by Holders. With respect to the Securities of any series, the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, relating to or arising under clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (7) of Section 501, and, with respect to all Securities, the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the 47
Trustee, not relating to or arising under clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (7) of Section 501, provided that in each case (1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture, (2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction, and (3) the Trustee need not take any action which might involve it in personal liability or be unjustly prejudicial to the Holders of Securities of such series not consenting. SECTION 513. Waiver of Past Defaults. Subject to Section 502, the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default described in clause (1), (2), (3), (4) or (7) of Section 501 (or, in the case of a default described in clause (5) or (6) of Section 501, the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities may waive any such past default), and its consequences, except a default (1) in respect of the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security or any related coupon, or (2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected. Upon any such waiver, any such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon. SECTION 514. Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws. The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted. ARTICLE SIX THE TRUSTEE SECTION 601. Notice of Defaults. Within 90 days after the occurrence of any Default hereunder with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall transmit in the manner and to the extent provided in TIA Section 313(c), notice of such Default hereunder 48
known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, unless such Default shall have been cured or waived; provided, however, that, except in the case of a Default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security of such series or in the payment of any sinking fund installment with respect to Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determine that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related coupons; and provided further that in the case of any Default of the character specified in Section 501(4) with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof. SECTION 602. Certain Duties, Responsibilities and Rights of Trustee. Subject to the provisions of TIA Sections 315(a) through 315(d): (1) except during the continuance of an Event of Default, (a) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and (b) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture; (2) if any Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs; (3) the Trustee may not be relieved from liabilities for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that: (a) this subparagraph (3) does not limit the effect of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph or the penultimate paragraph of this Section 602; (b) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and 49
(c) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of the affected series relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture; (4) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties; (5) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution; (6) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officer's Certificate; (7) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon; (8) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related coupons pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction; (9) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney; (10) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents, attorneys, custodians, or 50
nominees and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent, attorney, custodian, or nominee appointed with due care by it hereunder; (11) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture; (12) in the event that the Trustee is also acting as Paying Agent, Security Registrar or in any other capacity hereunder, the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits afforded to the Trustee pursuant to this Article Six, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, shall also be afforded to the Trustee in its capacity as such Paying Agent, Security Registrar or in such other capacity; and (13) the Trustee shall not be deemed to know or be charged with knowledge of any Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series for which it is acting as Trustee unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received written notice thereof at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee from the Company or a Holder of such Securities and such notice references this Indenture and such Securities. The Trustee shall not be required to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 602. SECTION 603. Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities. The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except for the Trustee's certificates of authentication, and in any coupons shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent assumes any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities or coupons, except that the Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Indenture, authenticate the Securities and perform its obligations hereunder and that the statements made by it in a Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 supplied to the Company are true and accurate, subject to the qualifications set forth therein. Neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof. SECTION 604. May Hold Securities. The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company or of the Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and coupons and, subject to TIA Sections 310(b) and 311, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent. 51
SECTION 605. Money Held in Trust. Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed with the Company or for the investment thereof. SECTION 606. Compensation and Reimbursement. The Company agrees: (1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust); (2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct; and (3) to indemnify the Trustee and any predecessor trustee and its and their officers, directors, employees, and agents for, and to hold it or them harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on its or their part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the costs and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of defending itself or themselves against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its or their powers or duties hereunder. The obligations of the Company under this Section to compensate the Trustee, to pay or reimburse the Trustee for expenses, disbursements and advances and to indemnify and hold harmless the Trustee shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder and shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the resignation or removal of the Trustee and the termination of this Indenture for any reason. As security for the performance of such obligations of the Company, the Trustee shall have a claim and lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on particular Securities or any coupons. In addition to and without prejudice to its rights hereunder, when the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or (6), the expenses (including reasonable charges and expense of its counsel) of and the compensation for such services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law. The provisions of this Section shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the termination of this Indenture for any reason and the earlier resignation or removal of the Trustee. SECTION 607. Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility; Conflicting Interests; Disqualification. There shall be at all times a Trustee hereunder which shall be eligible to act as 52
Trustee under TIA Section 310(a)(1) and shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If such Trustee publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of Federal, State, territorial or District of Columbia supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Trustee shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article. If the Trustee shall have or acquire any conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, it shall either eliminate such conflicting interest or resign to the extent, in the manner and with the effect, and subject to the conditions, provided in the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture. For purposes of Section 310(b)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act and to the extent permitted thereby, the Trustee, in its capacity as trustee in respect of the Securities of any series, shall not be deemed to have a conflicting interest arising from its capacity as trustee in respect of the Securities of any other series or any securities of any series issued under the Indenture, dated as of June 25, 2004, of the Company to JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee, pursuant to which the Company's 5.45% Notes due 2014 were issued. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Trustee from filing the application provided for in the second to last sentence of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. SECTION 608. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor. (a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 609 and any and all amounts then due and owing to the Trustee hereunder have been paid in full. (b) The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 609 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, or if the Trustee is removed as hereinafter provided, the resigning or removed Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series. (c) The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company. (d) If at any time: (1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of TIA Section 310(b) after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or (2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 607 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or 53
(3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation, then, in any such case, (i) the Company, by a Board Resolution or pursuant to an Officer's Certificate, may remove the Trustee and appoint a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii) subject to TIA Section 315(e), any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees. (e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or Officer's Certificate, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series). If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner hereinafter provided, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series. (f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series to the Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided for in Section 106. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office. SECTION 609. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor. In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, 54
transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder, subject nevertheless to its claim and lien provided for in Section 606. (a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, subject nevertheless to its claim and lien provided for in Section 606. Whenever there is a successor Trustee with respect to one or more (but less than all) series of securities issued pursuant to this Indenture, the terms "Indenture" and "Securities" shall have the meanings specified in the provisos to the respective definitions of those terms in Section 101 which contemplate such situation. (b) Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, as the case may be. (c) No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article. SECTION 610. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business. Any Person into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to all or substantially all of the smallest unit of the corporate trust business of the Trustee which includes the activities of the Trustee relating to this Indenture shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such Person shall be 55
otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities. In case any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated by such predecessor Trustee, any successor Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor Trustee. In all such cases such certificates shall have the full force and effect which this Indenture provides for the certificate of authentication of the Trustee; provided, however, that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or to authenticate Securities in the name of any predecessor Trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation. SECTION 611. Appointment of Authenticating Agent. At any time when any of the Securities remain Outstanding, the Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series and the Trustee shall give written notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, in the manner provided for in Section 106. Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Any such appointment shall be evidenced by an instrument in writing signed by a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, and a copy of such instrument shall be promptly furnished to the Company. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business and in good standing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section. Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent. 56
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall give written notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, in the manner provided for in Section 106. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section. The Trustee agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be reimbursed for such payments, subject to the provisions of Section 606. If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication in the following form: Dated: ____________________ This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Trustee By ____________________________________ as Authenticating Agent By ____________________________________ Authorized Officer ARTICLE SEVEN HOLDERS' LISTS AND REPORTS BY TRUSTEE AND COMPANY SECTION 701. Disclosure of Names and Addresses of Holders. Every Holder of Securities or coupons, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that none of the Company or the Trustee or any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders in accordance with TIA Section 312, regardless of the source from which such 57
information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under Section 312(b). SECTION 702. Reports by Trustee. Within 60 days after May 15 of each year commencing with the first May 15 after the first issuance of Securities pursuant to this Indenture, the Trustee shall transmit to the Holders of Securities, in the manner and to the extent provided in TIA Section 313(c), a brief report dated as of such May 15 if required by TIA Section 313(a). The Company will promptly notify the Trustee when Securities are listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof. SECTION 703. Reports by Company. The Company shall: (1) file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company is required to file the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; or, if the Company is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of such Sections, then it shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations; (2) file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such additional information, documents and reports with respect to compliance by the Company with the conditions and covenants of this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations; and (3) transmit to all Holders, in the manner and to the extent provided in TIA Section 313(c), within 30 days after the filing thereof with the Trustee, such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Company pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Section as may be required by rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission. Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officer's Certificates). 58
ARTICLE EIGHT CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE SECTION 801. Company May Consolidate, etc., Only on Certain Terms. The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or transfer all or substantially all of its property and assets as an entirety to any Person, unless: (a) either the Company shall be the continuing Person, or the Person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company as an entirety are transferred is a Person organized and existing under the laws of the United States or any State thereof or the District of Columbia which expressly assumes all of the obligations of the Company under each series of Securities and this Indenture with respect to each such series by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on all the Securities and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed; (b) immediately before and immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default and no Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Subsidiary may consolidate with, merge with or into or transfer all or part of its properties and assets to the Company or any other Subsidiary or Subsidiaries; and (c) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer and such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with. SECTION 802. Successor Person Substituted. Upon any consolidation by the Company with or merger by the Company with or into any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety to any Person in accordance with Section 801, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, and be subject to every obligation of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and in the event of any such conveyance or transfer, the Company (which term shall for this purpose mean the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture or any successor Person which shall theretofore become such in the manner described in Section 801), except in the case of a lease, shall be discharged of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities and the coupons and may be dissolved and liquidated. 59
ARTICLE NINE SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES SECTION 901. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders. Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes: (1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company contained herein and in the Securities; or (2) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities and any related coupons (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or (3) to add any additional Events of Default (and if such Events of Default are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such Events of Default are being included solely for the benefit of such series); or (4) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to provide that Bearer Securities may be registrable as to principal, to change or eliminate any restrictions on the payment of principal of or any premium or interest on Bearer Securities, to permit Bearer Securities to be issued in exchange for Registered Securities, to permit Bearer Securities to be issued in exchange for Bearer Securities of other authorized denominations or to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in uncertificated form; provided that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related coupons in any material respect; or (5) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture; provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of such provision; or (6) to secure the Securities pursuant to the requirements of Section 1009 or otherwise; or (7) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 201 and 301; or (8) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or 60
facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 609(b); or (9) to close this Indenture with respect to the authentication and delivery of additional series of Securities; or (10) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency; or (11) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder, as certified to in an Officer's Certificate; or (12) to supplement any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance and discharge of any series of Securities pursuant to Sections 401, 1402 and 1403; provided that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related coupons or any other series of Securities in any material respect. SECTION 902. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders. With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture which affect such series of Securities or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, (1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of (or premium, if any) or any installment of interest on any Security of such series, or reduce the principal amount thereof (or premium, if any) or the rate of interest, if any, thereon, or change any obligation of the Company to pay Additional Amounts contemplated by Section 1005 (except as contemplated by Section 801(1) and permitted by Section 901(1)), or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security of such series that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502 or the amount thereof provable in bankruptcy pursuant to Section 504, or adversely affect any right of repayment at the option of any Holder of any Security of such series, or change any Place of Payment where, or the Currency in which, any Security of such series or any premium or interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption or repayment at the option of the Holder, on or after the Redemption Date or Repayment Date, as the case may be), or adversely affect any right to convert or exchange any Security as may be provided pursuant to Section 301 herein, or (2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, 61
for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture which affect such series or certain defaults applicable to such series hereunder and their consequences provided for in this Indenture, or reduce the requirements of Section 1504 for quorum or voting with respect to Securities of such series, or (3) modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 513 or Section 1010, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture which affect such series cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby. It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof. SECTION 903. Execution of Supplemental Indentures. In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise. SECTION 904. Effect of Supplemental Indentures. Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby. SECTION 905. Conformity with Trust Indenture Act. Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect. SECTION 906. Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures. Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series. SECTION 907. Notice of Supplemental Indentures. Promptly after the execution by the Company and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of Section 902, the Company shall give notice thereof to the Holders of each Outstanding Security affected, in the manner provided for in Section 106, setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture. 62
SECTION 908. Effect on Senior Indebtedness. No supplemental indenture shall adversely affect the rights of any holder of Senior Indebtedness under Article Sixteen without the consent of such holder. ARTICLE TEN COVENANTS SECTION 1001. Payment of Principal, Premium, if any, and Interest. The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each series of Securities and any related coupons that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities, any coupons appertaining thereto and this Indenture. Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, any interest installments due on Bearer Securities on or before Maturity shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of the several coupons for such interest installments as are evidenced thereby as they severally mature. SECTION 1002. Maintenance of Office or Agency. If the Securities of a series are issuable only as Registered Securities, the Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange, where Securities of that series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. If Securities of a series are issuable as Bearer Securities, the Company will maintain (A) in The City of New York, an office or agency where any Registered Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where any Registered Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for exchange, where Securities of that series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable, where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served and where Bearer Securities of that series and related coupons may be presented or surrendered for payment in the circumstances described in the following paragraph (and not otherwise) (B) subject to any laws or regulations applicable thereto, in a Place of Payment for that series which is located outside the United States, an office or agency where Securities of that series and related coupons may be presented and surrendered for payment; provided, however, that, if the Securities of that series are listed on any stock exchange located outside the United States and such stock exchange shall so require, the Company will maintain a Paying Agent for the Securities of that series in any required city located outside the United States so long as the Securities of that series are listed on such exchange, and (C) subject to any laws or regulations applicable thereto, in a Place of Payment for that series located outside the United States an office or agency where any Registered Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for exchange, where Securities of that series that are convertible and exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. 63
The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, except that Bearer Securities of any series and the related coupons may be presented and surrendered for payment at the offices specified in the Security, in London, and the Company hereby appoints the same as its agents to receive such respective presentations, surrenders, notices and demands. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, no payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on Bearer Securities shall be made at any office or agency of the Company in the United States or by check mailed to any address in the United States or by transfer to an account maintained with a bank located in the United States; provided, however, that, if the Securities of a series are payable in Dollars, payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on any Bearer Security shall be made at the office of the Company's Paying Agent in The City of New York, if (but only if) payment in Dollars of the full amount of such principal, premium or interest, as the case may be, at all offices or agencies outside the United States maintained for such purpose by the Company in accordance with this Indenture is illegal or effectively precluded by exchange controls or other similar restrictions. The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind any such designation; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in accordance with the requirements set forth above for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to a series of Securities, the Company hereby designates as a Place of Payment for each series of Securities the office or agency of the Trustee in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and initially appoints the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office as Paying Agent in such city and as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, if and so long as the Securities of any series (i) are denominated in a Currency other than Dollars or (ii) may be payable in a Currency other than Dollars, or so long as it is required under any other provision of the Indenture, then the Company will maintain with respect to each such series of Securities, or as so required, at least one Exchange Rate Agent. SECTION 1003. Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust. If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities and any related coupons, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of 64
such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) sufficient to pay the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on Securities of such series so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act. Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities and any related coupons, it will, prior to or on each due date of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum (in the Currency described in the preceding paragraph) sufficient to pay the principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act. The Company will cause each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) for any series of Securities to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will: (1) hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on Securities of such series in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided; (2) give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series) in the making of any payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of such series; and (3) at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent. The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such sums. Except as provided in the Securities of any series, and subject to any applicable abandoned property laws, any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security of any series, or any coupon appertaining thereto, and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security or coupon shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company 65
as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in an Authorized Newspaper, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company. SECTION 1004. Statement as to Compliance. The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, a brief certificate from the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer as to his or her knowledge of the Company's compliance with all conditions and covenants under this Indenture. For purposes of this Section 1004, such compliance shall be determined without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice under this Indenture. SECTION 1005. Additional Amounts. If any Securities of a series provide for the payment of additional amounts to any Holder who is not a United States Person in respect of any tax, assessment or governmental charge ("Additional Amounts"), the Company will pay to the Holder of any Security of such series or any coupon appertaining thereto such Additional Amounts as may be specified as contemplated by Section 301. Whenever in this Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of the principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on, or in respect of, any Security of a series or payment of any related coupon or the net proceeds received on the sale or exchange of any Security of a series, such mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Amounts provided for by the terms of such series established pursuant to Section 301 to the extent that, in such context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to such terms and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts (if applicable) in any provisions hereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where such express mention is not made. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, if the Securities of a series provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, at least 10 days prior to the first Interest Payment Date with respect to that series of Securities (or if the Securities of that series will not bear interest prior to Maturity, the first day on which a payment of principal (and premium, if any) is made), and at least 10 days prior to each date of payment of principal (or premium, if any) or interest if there has been any change with respect to the matters set forth in the below-mentioned Officer's Certificate, the Company will furnish the Trustee and the Company's principal Paying Agent or Paying Agents, if other than the Trustee, with an Officer's Certificate instructing the Trustee and such Paying Agent or Paying Agents whether such payment of principal, premium or interest on the Securities of that series shall be made to Holders of Securities of that series or any related coupons who are not United States Persons without withholding for or on account of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge described in the Securities of the series. If any such withholding shall be required, then such Officer's Certificate shall specify by country the amount, if any, required to be withheld on such payments to such Holders of Securities of that series or related coupons and the Company will pay to the Trustee or such Paying Agent the Additional Amounts required by the terms of such Securities. In the event that the Trustee or any Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall not so receive the above-mentioned certificate, then the Trustee or such Paying Agent shall be entitled to (i) 66
assume that no such withholding or deduction is required with respect to any payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Securities of a series or related coupons until it shall have received a certificate advising otherwise and (ii) to make all payments of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities of a series or related coupons without withholding or deductions until otherwise advised. The Company covenants to indemnify the Trustee, any Paying Agent, and their respective officers, directors, employees, and agents for, and to hold them harmless against, any loss, liability or expense reasonably incurred without negligence or bad faith on their part arising out of or in connection with actions taken or omitted by any of them in reliance on any Officer's Certificate furnished pursuant to this Section. The provisions of the immediately preceding sentence shall survive the termination of this Indenture and the earlier resignation or removal of the Trustee. SECTION 1006. Payment of Taxes and Other Claims. The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, (1) all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, and (2) all material lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a Lien upon any Principal Property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings. SECTION 1007. Maintenance of Principal Properties. The Company will cause all Principal Properties to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order and supplied with all necessary equipment and will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly and advantageously conducted at all times; provided, however, that nothing in this Section shall prevent or restrict the sale, abandonment or other disposition of any of such Principal Properties if such action is, in the judgment of the Company, desirable in the conduct of the business (financial or otherwise) of the Company and its Subsidiaries as a whole and not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders. SECTION 1008. Corporate Existence. Subject to Article Eight, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence and the rights (charter and statutory) and franchises of the Company and any Restricted Subsidiary; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Company shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries as a whole. SECTION 1009. Limitation on Liens. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except for: (a) Liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, provided that adequate reserves with respect thereto are 67
maintained on the books of the Company or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, in conformity with GAAP; (b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 60 days or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; (c) pledges or deposits in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation and deposits securing liability to insurance carriers under insurance or self-insurance arrangements; (d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business; (e) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company or any of our Subsidiaries; (f) Liens in existence on the date of the first issuance by the Company of Securities issued pursuant to this Indenture; provided that no such Lien is spread to cover any additional property after such date and that the amount of Debt secured thereby is not increased; (g) Liens securing Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries incurred to finance the acquisition of fixed or capital assets; provided that (i) such Liens shall be created substantially simultaneously with the acquisition of such fixed or capital assets, (ii) such Liens do not at any time encumber any property other than the property financed by such Debt and (iii) the amount of Debt secured thereby is not increased; (h) Liens on the property or assets of a corporation which becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof; provided that (i) such Liens existed at the time such corporation became a Subsidiary and were not created in anticipation thereof, (ii) any such Lien is not spread to cover any property or assets or such corporation after the time such corporation becomes a Subsidiary, and (iii) the amount of Debt secured thereby is not increased; (i) Liens pursuant to any Receivables Transaction in an aggregate principal amount not to exceeding 20% of Consolidated Tangible Assets; and (j) Liens (not otherwise permitted hereunder) (i) which secure obligations not exceeding (as to the Company and all Subsidiaries) the greater of (x) $100,000,000 or (y) 20% of Consolidated Net Worth, in each case in aggregate amount at any time outstanding or (ii) with respect to which the Company effectively provides that the 68
Securities Outstanding hereunder are secured equally and ratably with (or, at the option of the Company, prior to) the Debt secured by such Lien. SECTION 1010. Waiver of Certain Covenants. The Company may, with respect to any series of Securities, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition which affects such series set forth in Sections 1006 to 1010, inclusive, or, as specified pursuant to Section 301(15) for Securities of such series, in any covenants of the Company added to Article Ten pursuant to Section 301(14) or Section 301(15) in connection with Securities of such series, if the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected by such term, provision or condition, by Act of such Holders, waive such compliance in such instance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee to Holders of Securities of such series in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect. ARTICLE ELEVEN REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES SECTION 1101. Applicability of Article. Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article. SECTION 1102. Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee. The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by or pursuant to a Board Resolution. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company, the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed and shall deliver to the Trustee such documentation and records as shall enable the Trustee to select the Securities to be redeemed pursuant to Section 1103. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officer's Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction. SECTION 1103. Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed. If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions of the principal of Securities of such series; provided, however, that no such partial redemption shall reduce the portion of the principal amount of a Security not redeemed to less than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of such series established pursuant to Section 301. 69
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Security which has been or is to be redeemed. SECTION 1104. Notice of Redemption. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, notice of redemption shall be given in the manner provided for in Section 106 not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, all notices of redemption shall state: (1) the Redemption Date, (2) the Redemption Price (if known) or the formula pursuant to which the Redemption Price is to be determined if the Redemption Price cannot be determined at the time the notice is given, (3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed, (4) in case any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice which relates to such Security shall state that on and after the Redemption Date, upon surrender of such Security, the Holder will receive, without charge, a new Security or Securities of authorized denominations for the principal amount thereof remaining unredeemed, (5) that on the Redemption Date, the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date payable as provided in Section 1106 will become due and payable upon each such Security, or the portion thereof, to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date, (6) the Place or Places of Payment where such Securities, together in the case of Bearer Securities with all coupons appertaining thereto, if any, maturing after the Redemption Date, are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any, (7) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case, (8) that, unless otherwise specified in such notice, Bearer Securities of any series, if any, surrendered for redemption must be accompanied by all coupons maturing subsequent to the Redemption Date or the amount of any such missing coupon or 70
coupons will be deducted from the Redemption Price unless security or indemnity satisfactory to the Company, the Trustee and any Paying Agent is furnished, (9) if Bearer Securities of any series are to be redeemed and any Registered Securities of such series are not to be redeemed, and if such Bearer Securities may be exchanged for Registered Securities not subject to redemption on such Redemption Date pursuant to Section 305 or otherwise, the last date, as determined by the Company, on which such exchanges may be made, (10) the CUSIP, ISIN or other similar numbers, if any, assigned to such Securities; provided, however, that such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of CUSIP, ISIN or other similar numbers, in which case none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall have any liability in respect of the use of any CUSIP, ISIN or other similar number or numbers on such notices, and the redemption of such Securities shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers, and (11) such other matters as the Company shall deem desirable or appropriate. Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company. SECTION 1105. Deposit of Redemption Price. On or prior to any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and accrued interest, if any, on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date. SECTION 1106. Securities Payable on Redemption Date. Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) (together with accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date), and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any) such Securities shall, if the same were interest-bearing, cease to bear interest and the coupons for such interest appertaining to any Bearer Securities so to be redeemed, except to the extent provided below, shall be void. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, together with all coupons, if any, appertaining thereto maturing after the Redemption Date, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date; provided, however, that installments of interest on Bearer Securities whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in Section 1002) and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated 71
by Section 301, only upon presentation and surrender of coupons for such interest; and provided further that installments of interest on Registered Securities whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307. If any Bearer Security surrendered for redemption shall not be accompanied by all appurtenant coupons maturing after the Redemption Date, such Security may be paid after deducting from the Redemption Price an amount equal to the face amount of all such missing coupons, or the surrender of such missing coupon or coupons may be waived by the Company and the Trustee if there be furnished to them such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If thereafter the Holder of such Security shall surrender to the Trustee or any Paying Agent any such missing coupon in respect of which a deduction shall have been made from the Redemption Price, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount so deducted; provided, however, that interest represented by coupons shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in Section 1002) and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, only upon presentation and surrender of those coupons. If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal (and premium, if any) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) set forth in such Security. SECTION 1107. Securities Redeemed in Part. Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part (pursuant to the provisions of this Article or of Article Twelve) shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered. ARTICLE TWELVE SINKING FUNDS SECTION 1201. Applicability of Article. Retirements of Securities of any series pursuant to any sinking fund shall be made in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article. The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment", and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series 72
is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any mandatory sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series. SECTION 1202. Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities. Subject to Section 1203, in lieu of making all or any part of any mandatory sinking fund payment with respect to any Securities of a series in cash, the Company may at its option (1) deliver to the Trustee Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) theretofore purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company, together, in the case of any Bearer Securities of such series, with all unmatured coupons appertaining thereto, and/or (2) receive credit for the principal amount of Securities of such series which have been previously delivered to the Trustee by the Company or for Securities of such series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any mandatory sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of the same series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; provided, however, that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such mandatory sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly. SECTION 1203. Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund. Not less than 60 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering or crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 1202 (which Securities will, if not previously delivered, accompany such certificate) and whether the Company intends to exercise its right to make a permitted optional sinking fund payment with respect to such series. Such certificate shall be irrevocable and upon its delivery the Company shall be obligated to make the cash payment or payments therein referred to, if any, on or before the next succeeding sinking fund payment date. In the case of the failure of the Company to deliver such certificate, the sinking fund payment due on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date for that series shall be paid entirely in cash and shall be sufficient to redeem the principal amount of such Securities subject to a mandatory sinking fund payment without the option to deliver or credit Securities as provided in Section 1202 and without the right to make any optional sinking fund payment, if any, with respect to such series. Not more than 60 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 1103 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice having 73
been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 1106 and 1107. Prior to any sinking fund payment date, the Company shall pay to the Trustee or a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) in cash a sum equal to the principal (and premium, if any) and any interest that will accrue to the date fixed for redemption of Securities or portions thereof to be redeemed on such sinking fund payment date pursuant to this Section 1203. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a sinking fund for any series of Securities, if at any time the amount of cash to be paid into such sinking fund on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date, together with any unused balance of any preceding sinking fund payment or payments for such series, does not exceed in the aggregate $100,000, the Trustee, unless requested by the Company, shall not give the next succeeding notice of the redemption of Securities of such series through the operation of the sinking fund. Any such unused balance of moneys deposited in such sinking fund shall be added to the sinking fund payment for such series to be made in cash on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date or, at the request of the Company, shall be applied at any time or from time to time to the purchase of Securities of such series, by public or private purchase, in the open market or otherwise, at a purchase price for such Securities (excluding accrued interest and brokerage commissions, for which the Trustee or any Paying Agent will be reimbursed by the Company) not in excess of the principal amount thereof. ARTICLE THIRTEEN REPAYMENT AT OPTION OF HOLDERS SECTION 1301. Applicability of Article. Repayment of Securities of any series before their Stated Maturity at the option of Holders thereof shall be made in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article. SECTION 1302. Repayment of Securities. Securities of any series subject to repayment in whole or in part at the option of the Holders thereof will, unless otherwise provided in the terms of such Securities, be repaid at a price equal to the principal amount thereof, together with interest, if any, thereon accrued to the Repayment Date specified in or pursuant to the terms of such Securities. The Company covenants that on or before the Repayment Date it will deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) sufficient to pay the principal (or, if so provided by the terms of the Securities of any series, a percentage of the principal) of and (except if the Repayment Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest, if any, on, all the Securities or portions thereof, as the case may be, to be repaid on such date. 74
SECTION 1303. Exercise of Option. Securities of any series subject to repayment at the option of the Holders thereof will contain an "Option to Elect Repayment" form on the reverse of such Securities. To be repaid at the option of the Holder, any Security so providing for such repayment, with the "Option to Elect Repayment" form on the reverse of such Security duly completed by the Holder (or by the Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), must be received by the Company at the Place of Payment therefor specified in the terms of such Security (or at such other place or places or which the Company shall from time to time notify the Holders of such Securities) not earlier than 45 days nor later than 30 days prior to the Repayment Date. If less than the entire principal amount of such Security is to be repaid in accordance with the terms of such Security, the principal amount of such Security to be repaid, in increments of the minimum denomination for Securities of such series, and the denomination or denominations of the Security or Securities to be issued to the Holder for the portion of the principal amount of such Security surrendered that is not to be repaid, must be specified. The principal amount of any Security providing for repayment at the option of the Holder thereof may not be repaid in part if, following such repayment, the unpaid principal amount of such Security would be less than the minimum authorized denomination of Securities of the series of which such Security to be repaid is a part. Except as otherwise may be provided by the terms of any Security providing for repayment at the option of the Holder thereof, exercise of the repayment option by the Holder shall be irrevocable unless waived by the Company. SECTION 1304. When Securities Presented for Repayment Become Due and Payable. If Securities of any series providing for repayment at the option of the Holders thereof shall have been surrendered as provided in this Article and as provided by or pursuant to the terms of such Securities, such Securities or the portions thereof, as the case may be, to be repaid shall become due and payable and shall be paid by the Company on the Repayment Date therein specified, and on and after such Repayment Date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of such Securities on such Repayment Date) such Securities shall, if the same were interest-bearing, cease to bear interest and the coupons for such interest appertaining to any Bearer Securities so to be repaid, except to the extent provided below, shall be void. Upon surrender of any such Security for repayment in accordance with such provisions, together with all coupons, if any, appertaining thereto maturing after the Repayment Date, the principal amount of such Security so to be repaid shall be paid by the Company, together with accrued interest, if any, to the Repayment Date; provided, however, that coupons whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Repayment Date shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in Section 1002) and, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, only upon presentation and surrender of such coupons; and provided further that, in the case of Registered Securities, installments of interest, if any, whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Repayment Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307. If any Bearer Security surrendered for repayment shall not be accompanied by all appurtenant coupons maturing after the Repayment Date, such Security may be paid after deducting from the amount payable therefor as provided in Section 1302 an amount equal to the face amount of all such missing coupons, or the surrender of such missing coupon or coupons may be waived by the Company and the Trustee if there be furnished to them such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If 75
thereafter the Holder of such Security shall surrender to the Trustee or any Paying Agent any such missing coupon in respect of which a deduction shall have been made as provided in the preceding sentence, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount so deducted; provided, however, that interest represented by coupons shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in Section 1002) and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, only upon presentation and surrender of those coupons. If the principal amount of any Security surrendered for repayment shall not be so repaid upon surrender thereof, such principal amount (together with interest, if any, thereon accrued to such Repayment Date) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Repayment Date at the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) set forth in such Security. SECTION 1305. Securities Repaid in Part. Upon surrender of any Registered Security which is to be repaid in part only, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge and at the expense of the Company, a new Registered Security or Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination specified by the Holder, in an aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the portion of the principal of such Security so surrendered which is not to be repaid. ARTICLE FOURTEEN DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE SECTION 1401. Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, the provisions of this Article Fourteen shall apply to each series of Securities, and the Company may, at its option, effect defeasance of the Securities of or within a series under Section 1402, or covenant defeasance of or within a series under Section 1403 in accordance with the terms of such Securities and in accordance with this Article. SECTION 1402. Defeasance and Discharge. Upon the Company's exercise of the above option applicable to this Section with respect to any Securities of or within a series, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons on the date the conditions set forth in Section 1404 are satisfied (hereinafter, "defeasance"). For this purpose, such defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "Outstanding" only for the purposes of Section 1405 and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in (A) and (B) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and any related coupons and this Indenture insofar as such Securities and any related coupons are concerned (and the Trustee, at the request and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (A) the rights of Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 1404 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of 76
(and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Securities and any related coupons when such payments are due, (B) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 304, 305, 306, 1002 and 1003 and with respect to the payment of Additional Amounts, if any, on such Securities as contemplated by Section 1005, (C) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder including, without limitation, Section 606, the last sentence of Section 1005, and the penultimate paragraph of Section 1405 and (D) this Article Fourteen. Subject to compliance with this Article Fourteen, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 1402 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 1403 with respect to such Securities and any related coupons. SECTION 1403. Covenant Defeasance. Upon the Company's exercise of the above option applicable to this Section with respect to any Securities of or within a series, the Company shall be released from its obligations under Sections 801 and 802 and Sections 1006 through 1010, and, if specified pursuant to Section 301, its obligations under any other covenant, with respect to such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1404 are satisfied (hereinafter, "covenant defeasance"), and such Securities and any related coupons shall thereafter be deemed not to be "Outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or Act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "Outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder. For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that, with respect to such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 501(4) or Section 501(8) or otherwise, as the case may be, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities and any related coupons shall be unaffected thereby. SECTION 1404. Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance. The following shall be the conditions to application of either Section 1402 or Section 1403 to any Outstanding Securities of or within a series and any related coupons: (1) The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements of Section 607 who shall agree to comply with the provisions of this Article Fourteen applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such Securities and any related coupons, (A) an amount (in such Currency in which such Securities and any related coupons are then specified as payable at Stated Maturity), or (B) Government Obligations applicable to such Securities (determined on the basis of the Currency in which such Securities are then specified as payable at Stated Maturity) which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment of principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, under such Securities and any related coupons, money in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof, sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written 77
certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, (i) the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons on the Stated Maturity (or Redemption Date, if applicable) of such principal (and premium, if any) or installment of interest, if any, and (ii) any mandatory sinking fund payments or analogous payments applicable to such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons on the day on which such payments are due and payable in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and of such Securities and any related coupons; provided that the Trustee shall have been irrevocably instructed to apply such money or the proceeds of such Government Obligations to said payments with respect to such Securities and any related coupons. Before such a deposit, the Company may give to the Trustee, in accordance with Section 1102 hereof, a notice of its election to redeem all or any portion of such Outstanding Securities at a future date in accordance with the terms of the Securities of such series and Article Eleven hereof, which notice shall be irrevocable. Such irrevocable redemption notice, if given, shall be given effect in applying the foregoing. In the case of the provision for payment or redemption of less than all of the Securities of any series, such Securities or portions thereof shall have been selected by the Trustee in the manner specified by Section 1103 hereof in the case of the redemption of less than all of the Securities or any series and, in the case of a redemption, the notice requisite to the validity of such redemption shall have been given or irrevocable authority shall have been given by the Company to the Trustee to give such notice, under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee. (2) No Default or Event of Default with respect to such Securities or any related coupons shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or, insofar as paragraphs (5) and (6) of Section 501 are concerned, at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period). (3) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, this Indenture or any other material agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound. (4) In the case of an election under Section 1402, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (x) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling, or (y) since the date of execution of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit and such defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if the deposit and such defeasance had not occurred. (5) In the case of an election under Section 1403, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons will not recognize income, gain or loss 78
for federal income tax purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if the deposit and such covenant defeasance had not occurred. (6) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section, such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall be effected in compliance with any additional or substitute terms, conditions or limitations in connection therewith pursuant to Section 301. (7) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to either the defeasance under Section 1402 or the covenant defeasance under Section 1403 (as the case may be) have been complied with. In the event that all of the foregoing conditions provided for in this Section 1404 to the application of either Section 1402 or Section 1403, as the case may be, to any Outstanding Securities of or within a series and any related coupons shall have been complied with, the Company shall, as promptly as practicable, but, in any event, within five Business Days of such compliance, give a notice, in the same manner as a notice of redemption with respect to such Securities, to the Holders of such Securities to the effect that such amount or Government Obligations has or have been deposited and the effect thereof; provided however, that the failure to give such notice or any defect therein shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the application of either Section 1402 or Section 1403, as the case may be, with respect to such Securities. SECTION 1405. Deposited Money and Government Obligations to Be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions. Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and Government Obligations (or other property as may be provided pursuant to Section 301) (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 1405, the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 1404 in respect of such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and any related coupons and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities and any related coupons of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Security pursuant to Section 301, if, after a deposit referred to in Section 1404(1) has been made, (a) the Holder of a Security in respect of which such deposit was made is entitled to, and does, elect pursuant to Section 312(b) or the terms of such Security to receive payment in a Currency other than that in which the deposit pursuant to Section 1404(1) has been made in respect of such Security, or (b) a Conversion Event occurs as contemplated in Section 312(d) or 312(e) or by the terms of any Security in respect of which the deposit pursuant to Section 1404(1) has been made, the indebtedness represented by such Security and any related coupons shall be deemed to have been, and will be, fully discharged and satisfied through the payment of the principal of (and 79
premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Security as they become due out of the proceeds yielded by converting (from time to time as specified below in the case of any such election) the amount or other property deposited in respect of such Security into the Currency in which such Security becomes payable as a result of such election or Conversion Event based on the applicable Market Exchange Rate for such Currency in effect on the third Business Day prior to each payment date, except, with respect to a Conversion Event, for such Currency in effect (as nearly as feasible) at the time of the Conversion Event. The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 1404 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons. The provisions of the immediately preceding sentence shall survive the termination of this Indenture and the earlier resignation or removal of the Trustee. Anything in this Article Fourteen to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or Government Obligations (or other property and any proceeds therefrom) held by it as provided in Section 1404 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent defeasance or covenant defeasance, as applicable, in accordance with this Article. SECTION 1406. Reinstatement. If the Trustee or any Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 1405 with respect to any Securities by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and such Securities and any related coupons shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 1402 or 1403, as the case may be, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 1405; provided, however, that if the Company makes any payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any such Security or any related coupon following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities and any related coupons to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent. ARTICLE FIFTEEN MEETINGS OF HOLDERS OF SECURITIES SECTION 1501. Purposes for Which Meetings May Be Called. If Securities of a series are issuable as Bearer Securities, a meeting of Holders of Securities of such series may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to this Article to make, give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series. 80
SECTION 1502. Call, Notice and Place of Meetings. (a) The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series for any purpose specified in Section 1501, to be held at such time and at such place in The City of New York or in London as the Trustee shall determine. Notice of every meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, setting forth the time and the place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be given, in the manner provided for in Section 106, not less than 21 nor more than 180 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting. (b) In case at any time the Company, pursuant to a Board Resolution, or the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of the Holders of Securities of such series for any purpose specified in Section 1501, by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have made the first publication or mailing of the notice of such meeting within 21 days after receipt of such request or shall not thereafter proceed to cause the meeting to be held as provided herein, then the Company or the Holders of Securities of such series in the amount above specified, as the case may be, may determine the time and the place in The City of New York or in London for such meeting and may call such meeting for such purposes by giving notice thereof as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section. SECTION 1503. Persons Entitled to Vote at Meetings. To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, a Person shall be (1) a Holder of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series, or (2) a Person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy for a Holder or Holders of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series by such Holder of Holders. The only Persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be the Person entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel, any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any representatives of the Company and its counsel. SECTION 1504. Quorum; Action. The Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of Holders of Securities of such series; provided, however, that, if any action is to be taken at such meeting with respect to a consent or waiver which this Indenture expressly provides may be given by the Holders of not less than a specified percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series, the Persons entitled to vote such specified percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall constitute a quorum. In the absence of a quorum within 30 minutes of the time appointed for any such meeting, the meeting shall, if convened at the request of Holders of Securities of such series, be dissolved. In any other case the meeting may be adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such meeting. In the absence of a quorum at any such adjourned meeting, such adjourned meeting may be further adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such adjourned meeting. Notice of the reconvening of any adjourned meeting shall be given as provided in Section 1502(a), except that such notice need be given only once not less than five days prior to the date on which the meeting is scheduled to be reconvened. Notice of the reconvening of any adjourned meeting shall state expressly the percentage, as 81
provided above, of the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series which shall constitute a quorum. Except as limited by the proviso to Section 902, any resolution presented to a meeting or adjourned meeting duly reconvened at which a quorum is present as aforesaid may be adopted by the affirmative vote of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series; provided, however, that, except as limited by the proviso to Section 902, any resolution with respect to any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action which this Indenture expressly provides may be made, given or taken by the Holders of a specified percentage, which is less than a majority, in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series may be adopted at a meeting or an adjourned meeting duly reconvened and at which a quorum is present as aforesaid by the affirmative vote of the Holders of not less than such specified percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series. Any resolution passed or decision taken at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly held in accordance with this Section shall be binding on all the Holders of Securities of such series and the related coupons, whether or not present or represented at the meeting. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1504, if any action is to be taken at a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series with respect to any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action that this Indenture expressly provides may be made, given or taken by the Holders of a specified percentage in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected thereby, or of the Holders of such series and one or more additional series: (i) there shall be no minimum quorum requirement for such meeting; and (ii) the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series that vote in favor of such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action shall be taken into account in determining whether such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action has been made, given or taken under this Indenture. SECTION 1505. Determination of Voting Rights; Conduct and Adjournment of Meetings. (a) Notwithstanding any provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Holders of Securities of a series in regard to proof of the holding of Securities of such series and of the appointment of proxies and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote, and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as its shall deem appropriate. Except as otherwise permitted or required by any such regulations, the holding of Securities shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 104 and the appointment of any proxy shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 104 or by having the signature of the person executing the proxy witnessed or guaranteed by any trust company, bank or banker authorized by Section 104 to certify to the holding of Bearer Securities. Such regulations may provide that written instruments appointing 82
proxies, regular on their face, may be presumed valid and genuine without the proof specified in Section 104 or other proof. (b) The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Company or by Holders of Securities as provided in Section 1502(b), in which case the Company or the Holders of Securities of the series calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall in like manner appoint a temporary chairman. A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by vote of the Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting. (c) At any meeting each Holder of a Security of such series or proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by such Holder (determined as specified in the definition of "Outstanding" in Section 101); provided, however, that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Security challenged as not Outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting to be not Outstanding. The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote, except as a Holder of a Security of such series or proxy. (d) Any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly called pursuant to Section 1502 at which a quorum is present may be adjourned from time to time by Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting; and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice. SECTION 1506. Counting Votes and Recording Action of Meetings. The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be by written ballots on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the Holders of Securities of such series or of their representatives by proxy and the principal amounts and serial numbers of the Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by them. The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified written reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting. A record, at least in duplicate, of the proceedings of each meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be prepared by the Secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to said record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that said notice was given as provided in Section 1502 and, if applicable, Section 1504. Each copy shall be signed and verified by the affidavits of the permanent chairman and secretary of the meeting and one such copy shall be delivered to the Company, and another to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee, the latter to have attached thereto the ballots voted at the meeting. Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated. 83
ARTICLE SIXTEEN SUBORDINATION OF SECURITIES SECTION 1601. Agreement to Subordinate. In the event a series of Securities is designated as subordinated pursuant to Section 301 and except as otherwise provided in a supplemental indenture or pursuant to Section 301, the Company, for itself, its successors and assigns, covenants and agrees, and each Holder of Securities of such series by his acceptance thereof, likewise covenants and agrees, that the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on each and all of the Securities of such series is hereby expressly subordinated, to the extent and in the manner hereinafter set forth, in right of payment to the prior payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness. SECTION 1602. Distribution on Dissolution, Liquidation and Reorganization; Subrogation of Securities. Upon any distribution of assets of the Company upon any dissolution, winding up, liquidation or reorganization of the Company, whether in bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or receivership proceedings or upon an assignment for the benefit of creditors or any other marshalling of the assets and liabilities of the Company or otherwise (subject to the power of a court of competent jurisdiction to make other equitable provision reflecting the rights conferred in this Indenture upon the Senior Indebtedness and the holders thereof with respect to the Securities and the holders thereof by a lawful plan of reorganization under applicable bankruptcy law): (a) the holders of all Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled to receive payment in full of the principal thereof (and premium, if any) and interest due thereon before the Holders of the Securities are entitled to receive any payment upon the principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on indebtedness evidenced by the Securities; and (b) any payment or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, to which the Holders of the Securities or the Trustee would be entitled except for the provisions of this Article Sixteen shall be paid by the liquidation trustee or agent or other person making such payment or distribution, whether a trustee in bankruptcy, a receiver or liquidating trustee or otherwise, directly to the holders of Senior Indebtedness or their representative or representatives or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture under which any instruments evidencing any of such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, ratably according to the aggregate amounts remaining unpaid on account of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Senior Indebtedness held or represented by each, to the extent necessary to make payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness remaining unpaid, after giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness; and (c) in the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, shall be received by the Trustee or the Holders of the Securities before all Senior Indebtedness is paid in full, such payment or distribution shall be paid over, upon written notice to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, to the holder of such Senior 84
Indebtedness or their representative or representatives or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture under which any instrument evidencing any of such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, ratably as aforesaid, for application to payment of all Senior Indebtedness remaining unpaid until all such Senior Indebtedness shall have been paid in full, after giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness. Subject to the payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness, the Holders of the Securities shall be subrogated to the rights of the holders of Senior Indebtedness (to the extent that distributions otherwise payable to such Holder have been applied to the payment of Senior Indebtedness) to receive payments or distributions of cash, property or securities of the Company applicable to Senior Indebtedness until the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities shall be paid in full and no such payments or distributions to the Holders of the Securities of cash, property or securities otherwise distributable to the holders of Senior Indebtedness shall, as between the Company, its creditors other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness, and the Holders of the Securities be deemed to be a payment by the Company to or on account of the Securities. It is understood that the provisions of this Article Sixteen are and are intended solely for the purpose of defining the relative rights of the Holders of the Securities, on the one hand, and the holders of the Senior Indebtedness, on the other hand. Nothing contained in this Article Sixteen or elsewhere in this Indenture or in the Securities is intended to or shall impair, as between the Company, its creditors other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness, and the Holders of the Securities, the obligation of the Company, which is unconditional and absolute, to pay to the Holders of the Securities the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities as and when the same shall become due and payable in accordance with their terms, or to affect the relative rights of the Holders of the Securities and creditors of the Company other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness, nor shall anything herein or in the Securities prevent the Trustee or the Holder of any Security from exercising all remedies otherwise permitted by applicable law upon default under this Indenture, subject to the rights, if any, under this Article Sixteen of the holders of Senior Indebtedness in respect of cash, property or securities of the Company received upon the exercise of any such remedy. Upon any payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in this Article Sixteen, the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 601, shall be entitled to rely upon a certificate of the liquidating trustee or agent or other person making any distribution to the Trustee for the purpose of ascertaining the Persons entitled to participate in such distribution, the holders of Senior Indebtedness and other indebtedness of the Company, the amount thereof or payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereof and all other facts pertinent thereto or to this Article Sixteen. With respect to the holders of Senior Indebtedness, the Trustee undertakes to perform or observe only such of its covenants and objectives as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations with respect to the holders of Senior Indebtedness shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee. The Trustee, however, shall not be deemed to owe any fiduciary duty to the holders of Senior Indebtedness. The Trustee shall not be liable to any such holder if it shall pay over or distribute to or on behalf of Holders of Securities or the Company, or any other Person, moneys or assets to which any holder of Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled by virtue of this Article Sixteen. 85
If the Trustee or any Holder of Securities does not file a proper claim or proof of debt in the form required in any proceeding referred to above prior to 30 days before the expiration of the time to file such claim in such proceeding, then the holder of any Senior Indebtedness is hereby authorized, and has the right, to file an appropriate claim or claims for or on behalf of such Holder of Securities. SECTION 1603. No Payment on Securities in Event of Default on Senior Indebtedness. No payment by the Company on account of principal (or premium, if any), sinking funds or interest, if any, on the Securities shall be made at anytime if: (i) a default on Senior Indebtedness exists that permits the holders of such Senior Indebtedness to accelerate its maturity and (ii) the default is the subject of judicial proceedings or the Company has received notice of such default. The Company may resume payments on the Securities when full payment of amounts then due for principal (premium, if any), sinking funds and interest on Senior Indebtedness has been made or duly provided for in money or money's worth. SECTION 1604. Payments on Securities Permitted. Nothing contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities shall (a) affect the obligation of the Company to make, or prevent the Company from making, at any time except as provided in Sections 1602 and 1603, payments of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities or (b) prevent the application by the Trustee of any moneys or assets deposited with it hereunder to the payment of or on account of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities, unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received at its Corporate Trust Office written notice of any fact prohibiting the making of such payment from the Company or from the holder of any Senior Indebtedness or from the trustee for any such holder, together with proof satisfactory to the Trustee of such holding of Senior Indebtedness or of the authority of such trustee more than two Business Days prior to the date fixed for such payment. SECTION 1605. Authorization of Holders to Trustee to Effect Subordination. Each Holder of Securities by his acceptance thereof authorizes and direct the Trustee on his behalf to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination as provided in this Article Sixteen and appoints the Trustee his attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes. SECTION 1606. Notices to Trustee. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article or any other provisions of this Indenture, neither the Trustee nor any Paying Agent (other than the Company) shall be charged with knowledge of the existence of any Senior Indebtedness or of any fact which would prohibit the making of any payment of moneys or assets to or by the Trustee or such Paying Agent, unless and until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee or such Paying Agent shall have received (in the case of a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee) written notice thereof from the Company or from the holder of any Senior Indebtedness or from the trustee for any such holder, together with proof satisfactory to the Trustee of such holding of Senior Indebtedness or of the authority of such trustee and, prior to the receipt of any such written notice, the Trustee shall be entitled in all respects conclusively to presume that no such facts exist; provided, however, that if at least two Business Days prior to the date upon which by the terms hereof any such moneys or assets may become payable for any purpose (including, without limitation, the payment of either the principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security) a Responsible Officer of the 86
Trustee shall not have received with respect to such moneys or assets the notice provided for in this Section 1606, then, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall have full power and authority to receive such moneys or assets and to apply the same to the purpose for which they were received, and shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary which may be received by it within two Business Days prior to such date. The Trustee shall be entitled to rely on the delivery to it of a written notice by a Person representing himself to be a holder of Senior Indebtedness (or a trustee on behalf of such holder) to establish that such a notice has been given by a holder of Senior Indebtedness or a trustee on behalf of any such holder. In the event that the Trustee determines in good faith that further evidence is required with respect to the right of any Person as a holder of Senior Indebtedness to participate in any payment or distribution pursuant to this Article Sixteen, the Trustee may request such Person to furnish evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of the Trustee as to the amount of Senior Indebtedness held by such Person, the extent to which such Person is entitled to participate in such payment or distribution and any other facts pertinent to the rights of such Person under this Article Sixteen and, if such evidence is not furnished, the Trustee may defer any payment to such Person pending judicial determination as to the right of such Person to receive such payment. SECTION 1607. Trustee as Holder of Senior Indebtedness. The Trustee in its individual capacity shall be entitled to all the rights set forth in this Article Sixteen in respect of any Senior Indebtedness at any time held by it to the same extent as any other holder of Senior Indebtedness and nothing in Section 613 or elsewhere in this Indenture shall be construed to deprive the Trustee of any of its rights as such holder. Nothing in this Article Sixteen shall apply to claims of, or payments to, the Trustee under or pursuant to Sections 506 or 606. SECTION 1608. Modifications of Terms of Senior Indebtedness. Any renewal or extension of the time of payment of any Senior Indebtedness or the exercise by the holders of Senior Indebtedness of any of their rights under any instrument creating or evidencing Senior Indebtedness, including, without limitation, the waiver of default thereunder, may be made or done all without notice to or assent from the Holders of the Securities or the Trustee. No compromise, alteration, amendment, modification, extension, renewal or other change of, or waiver, consent or other action in respect of, any liability or obligation under or in respect of, or of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of any indenture or other instrument under which any Senior Indebtedness is outstanding or of such Senior Indebtedness, whether or not such release is in accordance with the provisions of any applicable document, shall in any way alter or affect any of the provisions of this Article Sixteen or of the Securities relating to the subordination thereof. SECTION 1609. Reliance on Judicial Order or Certificate of Liquidating Agent. Upon any payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in this Article Sixteen, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities shall be entitled to rely upon any order or decree entered by any court of competent jurisdiction in which such insolvency, bankruptcy, receivership, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution, winding up or similar case or proceeding is pending, or a certificate of the trustee in bankruptcy, liquidating trustee, custodian, receiver, assignee for the benefit of creditors, agent or other person making such payment or distribution, delivered to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities, for the purpose of ascertaining the 87
persons entitled to participate in such payment or distribution to holders of Senior Indebtedness and other indebtedness of the Company, the amount thereof or payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereon and all other facts pertinent thereto or to this Article Sixteen. SECTION 1610. Satisfaction and Discharge; Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance. Amounts and Government Obligations deposited in trust with the Trustee pursuant to and in accordance with Articles Four and Fourteen and not, at the time of such deposit, prohibited to be deposited under Sections 1602 or 1603 shall not be subject to this Article Sixteen. This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same Indenture. 88
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, as of the day and year first above written. BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION By: /s/ LAWRENCE C. BEST --------------------------------------------- Name: Lawrence C. Best Title: Executive Vice President - Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer Attest: JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Trustee By: /s/ JOSEPH J. MORAND --------------------------------------------- Name: Joseph J. Morand Title: Authorized Signatory 89
EXHIBIT A FORMS OF CERTIFICATION EXHIBIT A-1 FORM OF CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY PERSON ENTITLED TO RECEIVE BEARER SECURITY OR TO OBTAIN INTEREST PAYABLE PRIOR TO THE EXCHANGE DATE CERTIFICATE [Insert title or sufficient description of Securities to be delivered] This is to certify that as of the date hereof, and except as set forth below, the above-captioned Securities held by you for our account (i) are owned by person(s) that are not citizens or residents of the United States, domestic partnerships, domestic corporations or any estate or trust the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source ("United States Person(s)"), (ii) are owned by United States Person(s) that are (a) foreign branches of United States financial institutions (financial institutions, as defined in United States Treasury Regulations Section 2.165-12(c)(1)(v) are herein referred to as "financial institutions") purchasing for their own account or for resale, or (b) United States Person(s) who acquired the Securities through foreign branches of United States financial institutions and who hold the Securities through such United States financial institutions on the date hereof (and in either case (a) or (b), each such United States financial institution hereby agrees, on its own behalf or through its agent, that you may advise [Name of Issuer] or its agent that such financial institution will comply with the requirements of Section 165(j)(3)(A), (B) or (C) of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder), or (iii) are owned by United States or foreign financial institution(s) for purposes of resale during the restricted period (as defined in United States Treasury Regulations Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(7)), and, in addition, if the owner is a United States or foreign financial institution described in clause (iii) above (whether or not also described in clause (i) or (ii)), this is to further certify that such financial institution has not acquired the Securities for purposes of resale directly or indirectly to a United States Person or to a person within the United States or its possessions. As used herein, "United States" means the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia); and its "possessions" include Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Wake Island and the Northern Mariana Islands. We undertake to advise you promptly by tested telex on or prior to the date on which you intend to submit your certification relating to the above-captioned Securities held by A-1-1
you for our account in accordance with your Operating Procedures if any applicable statement herein is not correct on such date, and in the absence of any such notification it may be assumed that this certification applies as of such date. This certificate excepts and does not relate to [U.S.$]__________of such interest in the above-captioned Securities in respect of which we are not able to certify and as to which we understand an exchange for an interest in a permanent global Security or an exchange for and delivery of definitive Securities (or, if relevant, collection of any interest) cannot be made until we do so certify. We understand that this certificate may be required in connection with certain tax legislation in the United States. If administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certificate is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorize you to produce this certificate or a copy thereof to any interested party in such proceedings. Dated: [To be dated no earlier than the 15th day prior to (i) the Exchange Date or (ii) the relevant Interest Payment Date occurring prior to the Exchange Date, as applicable] [Name of Person Making Certification] ________________________________________ (Authorized Signatory) Name: Title: A-1-2
EXHIBIT A-2 FORM OF CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY EUROCLEAR AND CLEARSTREAM IN CONNECTION WITH THE EXCHANGE OF A PORTION OF A TEMPORARY GLOBAL SECURITY OR TO OBTAIN INTEREST PAYABLE PRIOR TO THE EXCHANGE DATE CERTIFICATE [Insert title or sufficient description of Securities to be delivered] This is to certify that based solely on written certifications that we have received in writing, by tested telex or by electronic transmission from each of the persons appearing in our records as persons entitled to a portion of the principal amount set forth below (our "Member Organizations") substantially in the form attached hereto, as of the date hereof, [U.S.$]_________ principal amount of the above-captioned Securities (i) is owned by person(s) that are not citizens or residents of the United States, domestic partnerships, domestic corporations or any estate or trust the income of which is subject to United States Federal income taxation regardless of its source ("United States Person(s)"), (ii) is owned by United States Person(s) that are (a) foreign branches of United States financial institutions (financial institutions, as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.165-12(c)(1)(v) are herein referred to as "financial institutions") purchasing for their own account or for resale, or (b) United States Person(s) who acquired the Securities through foreign branches of United States financial institutions and who hold the Securities through such United States financial institutions on the date hereof (and in either case (a) or (b), each such financial institution has agreed, on its own behalf or through its agent, that we may advise [Name of Issuer] or its agent that such financial institution will comply with the requirements of Section 165(j)(3)(A), (B) or (C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder), or (iii) is owned by United States or foreign financial institution(s) for purposes of resale during the restricted period (as defined in United States Treasury Regulations Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(7)) and, to the further effect, that financial institutions described in clause (iii) above (whether or not also described in clause (i) or (ii)) have certified that they have not acquired the Securities for purposes of resale directly or indirectly to a United States Person or to a person within the United States or its possessions. As used herein, "United States" means the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia); and its "possessions" include Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Wake Island and the Northern Mariana Islands. We further certify that (i) we are not making available herewith for exchange (or, if relevant, collection of any interest) any portion of the temporary global Security representing the above-captioned Securities excepted in the above-referenced certificates of Member Organizations and (ii) as of the date hereof we have not received any notification from any of our A-2-1
Member Organizations to the effect that the statements made by such Member Organizations with respect to any portion of the part submitted herewith for exchange (or, if relevant, collection of any interest) are no longer true and cannot be relied upon as of the date hereof. We understand that this certification is required in connection with certain tax legislation in the United States. If administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certificate is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorize you to produce this certificate or a copy thereof to any interested party in such proceedings. Dated: {To be dated no earlier than the Exchange Date or the relevant Interest Payment Date occurring prior to the Exchange Date, as applicable} [EUROCLEAR BANK S.A./N.V.] [CLEARSTREAM] _______________________________________ By A-2-2

EXHIBIT 4.2 This Security is a Registered Security in permanent global form within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary. This Security is exchangeable for Securities registered in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture. Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form, this Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to the nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. Unless this Security is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Security issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment hereon is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
No.____ CUSIP No.: 101137 AH 0 ISIN No.: US101137AH03 $___________ 6.00% NOTE DUE 2011 BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns the principal sum of __________ DOLLARS ($__________) on June 15, 2011. Interest Payment Dates: June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing December 15, 2006. Regular Record Dates: June 1 and December 1. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed. Dated: June _____, 2006 BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION By: ________________________________________ Name: Milan Kofol Title: Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations [corporate seal] Attest: By: ______________________________________ Name: Lawrence J. Knopf Title: Assistant Secretary
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION Dated: This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Trustee By: __________________________________________ Authorized Signatory
[REVERSE OF FORM OF SECURITY] BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION 6.00% NOTE DUE 2011 1. Interest. BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), which definition shall include any successor thereto in accordance with the Indenture (as defined below), promises to pay, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, interest on the principal amount set forth on the reverse side hereof at a rate of 6.00% per annum. Interest on the Securities will accrue from and including the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from June 9, 2006 through but excluding the date on which interest is paid. Interest shall be payable in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year (each an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing December 15, 2006. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 2. Method of Payment. The Company will pay interest on the Securities to the Persons who are registered Holders of Securities at the close of business on the immediately preceding June 1 and December 1 of each year (each, a "Regular Record Date"). Holders must surrender Securities to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments. The Company will pay principal, the Redemption Price and interest in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. At the Company's option, interest may be paid by check mailed to the registered address of the Holder or by wire transfer to an account designated by the Holder of this Security; provided, however, that so long as the Securities are registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), or its nominee, all payments of principal, Redemption Price and interest in respect thereof will be made in immediately available funds. 3. Paying Agent and Security Registrar. Initially, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., will act as Paying Agent and Security Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Security Registrar without notice. 4. Indenture. The Company issued the Securities under an Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2006 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Trustee (the "Trustee"). This Security is one of an issue of Securities of the Company issued under the Indenture. The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as amended from time to time (the "TIA"). The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Holders of the Securities are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of them. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meanings set forth in the Indenture. The Securities constitute senior indebtedness of the Company and, as such, shall be general unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company ranking equally with all of the Company's unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. The Company may, subject to the terms of the Indenture and applicable law, issue additional Securities under the Indenture. The Securities issued on June 9, 2006 and any additional Securities subsequently issued shall be treated as a single class for all
purposes of the Indenture. The Indenture limits the ability of the Company to incur certain liens and to merge or consolidate with another entity or transfer all or substantially all of its property and assets. 5. Optional Redemption. The Securities are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days notice mailed to the Holder, at any time prior to maturity as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company at a price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed or (ii) as determined by a Quotation Agent, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities to the Redemption Date. "Adjusted Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per year equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by a Quotation Agent as having maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities. "Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company. "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations. "Reference Treasury Dealer" means (1) Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and their respective successors; provided, however, that, if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary United States Government securities dealer in the United States (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Trustee after consultation with the Company. "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and ask prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date. 6. Sinking Fund. No sinking fund is provided for the Securities.
7. Denominations, Transfer, Exchange. The Securities are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Securities in accordance with the Indenture. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 906, 1107 or 1305 of the Indenture not involving any transfer. 8. Persons Deemed Owners. The registered Holder of a Security may be treated as the owner of it for all purposes. 9. Unclaimed Money. Subject to any applicable abandoned property laws, if money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee or Paying Agent will pay the money back to the Company at its written request. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as unsecured general creditors unless an "abandoned property" law designates another Person. 10. Amendment, Supplement, Waiver. The Company and the Trustee may, without the consent of the holders of any outstanding Securities, amend, waive or supplement the Indenture or the Securities for certain specified purposes, including, among other things, curing ambiguities, defects or inconsistencies, or making any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder in any material respect. Other amendments and modifications of the Indenture or the Securities may be made by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities affected, subject to certain exceptions requiring the consent of the Holders of each Security affected thereby. 11. Successor Corporation. When a successor corporation assumes all the obligations of its predecessor under the Securities and the Indenture and the transaction complies with the terms of Article 8 of the Indenture, the predecessor corporation, subject to certain exceptions, will be released from those obligations. 12. Defaults and Remedies. Events of Default are set forth in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations in the Indenture, if an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or Section 501(6) of the Indenture) occurs and is continuing, then the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities may, or the Trustee may, declare the principal of, plus accrued interest, if any, to be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or Section 501(6) of the Indenture occurs and is continuing, the principal of and accrued interest on all of the Securities shall ipso facto become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Holders of the Securities may not enforce the Indenture or the Securities except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may require indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it before it enforces the Indenture or the Securities. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Company must furnish an annual compliance certificate to the Trustee.
13. No Recourse Against Others. A director, officer, employee, or stockholder, as such, of the Company or any of its Affiliates shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Securities by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities. 14. Defeasance. The Indenture contains provisions (which provisions apply to this Security) for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company in respect of this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and Defaults and Events of Default, in each case upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein. 15. Authentication. This Security shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication to this Security. 16. GOVERNING LAW. THE INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. The Company will furnish to any Holder of Securities upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to: BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION One Boston Scientific Place Natick, Massachusetts 01760 Telephone: (508) 650-8000 Telecopy: (508) 650-8956 Attention: Assistant General Counsel
ASSIGNMENT FORM If you the holder want to assign this Security, fill in the form below and have your signature guaranteed: I or we assign and transfer this Security to ___________________ _______________________________________________________________________________ (Insert assignee's social security or tax ID number) __________________________ _______________________________________________________________________________ (Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code) and irrevocably appoint__ agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him. _______________________________________________________________________________ Date:___________ Your signature:__________________________ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security) Signature Guarantee:___________________________________________________________ Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Security Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Security Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

EXHIBIT 4.3 This Security is a Registered Security in permanent global form within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary. This Security is exchangeable for Securities registered in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture. Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form, this Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to the nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. Unless this Security is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Security issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment hereon is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
No._____ CUSIP No.: 101137 AG 2 ISIN No.: US101137AG20 $____________ 6.40% NOTE DUE 2016 BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns the principal sum of __________ DOLLARS ($__________) on June 15, 2016. Interest Payment Dates: June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing December 15, 2006. Regular Record Dates: June 1 and December 1. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed. Dated: June ____, 2006 BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION By: ________________________________________ Name: Milan Kofol Title: Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations [corporate seal] Attest: By: ______________________________________ Name: Lawrence J. Knopf Title: Assistant Secretary
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION Dated: This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Trustee By: _______________________________________ Authorized Signatory
[REVERSE OF FORM OF SECURITY] BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION 6.40 % NOTE DUE 2016 1. Interest. BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), which definition shall include any successor thereto in accordance with the Indenture (as defined below), promises to pay, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, interest on the principal amount set forth on the reverse side hereof at a rate of 6.40% per annum. Interest on the Securities will accrue from and including the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from June 9, 2006 through but excluding the date on which interest is paid. Interest shall be payable in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year (each an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing December 15, 2006. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 2. Method of Payment. The Company will pay interest on the Securities to the Persons who are registered Holders of Securities at the close of business on the immediately preceding June 1 and December 1 of each year (each, a "Regular Record Date"). Holders must surrender Securities to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments. The Company will pay principal, the Redemption Price and interest in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. At the Company's option, interest may be paid by check mailed to the registered address of the Holder or by wire transfer to an account designated by the Holder of this Security; provided, however, that so long as the Securities are registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), or its nominee, all payments of principal, Redemption Price and interest in respect thereof will be made in immediately available funds. 3. Paying Agent and Security Registrar. Initially, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., will act as Paying Agent and Security Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Security Registrar without notice. 4. Indenture. The Company issued the Securities under an Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2006 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Trustee (the "Trustee"). This Security is one of an issue of Securities of the Company issued under the Indenture. The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as amended from time to time (the "TIA"). The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Holders of the Securities are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of them. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meanings set forth in the Indenture. The Securities constitute senior indebtedness of the Company and, as such, shall be general unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company ranking equally with all of the Company's unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. The Company may, subject to the terms of the Indenture and applicable law, issue additional Securities under the Indenture. The Securities issued on June 9, 2006 and any additional Securities subsequently issued shall be treated as a single class for all
purposes of the Indenture. The Indenture limits the ability of the Company to incur certain liens and to merge or consolidate with another entity or transfer all or substantially all of its property and assets. 5. Optional Redemption. The Securities are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days notice mailed to the Holder, at any time prior to maturity as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company at a price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed or (ii) as determined by a Quotation Agent, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate plus 25 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities to the Redemption Date. "Adjusted Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per year equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by a Quotation Agent as having maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities. "Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company. "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations. "Reference Treasury Dealer" means (1) Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and their respective successors; provided, however, that, if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary United States Government securities dealer in the United States (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Trustee after consultation with the Company. "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and ask prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date. 6. Sinking Fund. No sinking fund is provided for the Securities.
7. Denominations, Transfer, Exchange. The Securities are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Securities in accordance with the Indenture. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 906, 1107 or 1305 of the Indenture not involving any transfer. 8. Persons Deemed Owners. The registered Holder of a Security may be treated as the owner of it for all purposes. 9. Unclaimed Money. Subject to any applicable abandoned property laws, if money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee or Paying Agent will pay the money back to the Company at its written request. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as unsecured general creditors unless an "abandoned property" law designates another Person. 10. Amendment, Supplement, Waiver. The Company and the Trustee may, without the consent of the holders of any outstanding Securities, amend, waive or supplement the Indenture or the Securities for certain specified purposes, including, among other things, curing ambiguities, defects or inconsistencies, or making any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder in any material respect. Other amendments and modifications of the Indenture or the Securities may be made by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities affected, subject to certain exceptions requiring the consent of the Holders of each Security affected thereby. 11. Successor Corporation. When a successor corporation assumes all the obligations of its predecessor under the Securities and the Indenture and the transaction complies with the terms of Article 8 of the Indenture, the predecessor corporation, subject to certain exceptions, will be released from those obligations. 12. Defaults and Remedies. Events of Default are set forth in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations in the Indenture, if an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or Section 501(6) of the Indenture) occurs and is continuing, then the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities may, or the Trustee may, declare the principal of, plus accrued interest, if any, to be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or Section 501(6) of the Indenture occurs and is continuing, the principal of and accrued interest on all of the Securities shall ipso facto become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Holders of the Securities may not enforce the Indenture or the Securities except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may require indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it before it enforces the Indenture or the Securities. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Company must furnish an annual compliance certificate to the Trustee.
13. No Recourse Against Others. A director, officer, employee, or stockholder, as such, of the Company or any of its Affiliates shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Securities by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities. 14. Defeasance. The Indenture contains provisions (which provisions apply to this Security) for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company in respect of this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and Defaults and Events of Default, in each case upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein. 15. Authentication. This Security shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication to this Security. 16. GOVERNING LAW. THE INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. The Company will furnish to any Holder of Securities upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to: BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION One Boston Scientific Place Natick, Massachusetts 01760 Telephone: (508) 650-8000 Telecopy: (508) 650-8956 Attention: Assistant General Counsel
ASSIGNMENT FORM If you the holder want to assign this Security, fill in the form below and have your signature guaranteed: I or we assign and transfer this Security to ______________________ _______________________________________________________________________________ (Insert assignee's social security or tax ID number)___________________________ _______________________________________________________________________________ (Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code) and irrevocably appoint__ agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him. _______________________________________________________________________________ Date:___________ Your signature:_____________________________ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security) Signature Guarantee: __________________________________________________________ Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Security Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Security Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.


