FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20060426172340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR  240.14d2(b))
o
   
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e4(c))
o
   
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On April 21, 2006, Boston Scientific Corporation (the "Company") entered into a $7,000,000,000 Credit Agreement, dated as of April 21, 2006, by and among the Company, as Borrower, BSC International Holding Limited, as Term Loan Borrower, the several Lenders parties thereto, Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation, as Syndication Agent,  Bear Stearns Corporate Lending Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Documentation Agents, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Banc of America Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners (the "Credit Agreement"), to finance in part the Merger (as defined below) and to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Transactions (as defined therein).
 
In addition, on April 21, 2006, the Company entered into a $7,000,000,000 Interim Loan Agreement, dated as of April 21, 2006, by and among the Company, as Borrower, the several Lenders parties thereto, Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation, as Syndication Agent, Bear Stearns Corporate Lending Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Documentation Agents, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Banc of America Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners (the "Interim Loan Agreement"), to finance in part the Merger and to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Transactions.
 
The initial borrowing under the Credit Agreement consists of a term loan to BSC International Holding Limited, guaranteed by the Company, in the principal amount of $5,000,000,000 (the "Term Loan Facility"). In addition, the Company may borrow from time to time up to $2,000,000,000 in revolving credit loans (the "Revolving Facility") under the Credit Agreement. Amounts outstanding under the Term Loan Facility and the Revolving Facility are required to be repaid in full on April 21, 2011. The Term Loan Facility also requires certain annual amortization payments to be made beginning April 21, 2008. The borrowing under the Interim Loan Agreement consists of an interim loan to the Company in the principal amount of $700,000,000, which is required to be repaid in full no later than April 21, 2007. Loans under the Interim Loan Agreement, the Term Loan Facility and the Revolving Facility will each bear interest at LIBOR plus an interest margin. The applicable interest margin will be based on the highest two out of three of the Company's long-term, senior unsecured, corporate credit ratings from Moody's Investor Service Inc., Standard & Poor's Rating Services and Fitch Ratings. The interest margin in respect of loans under the Interim Loan Agreement and the Term Loan Facility will be between 0.30 percent (high A rating) and 1.0 percent (below investment grade rating). The interest margin in respect of loans under the Revolving Facility will be between 0.15 percent (high A rating) and 0.65 percent (below investment grade rating), or, if more than 50% of all available revolving credit loans are outstanding at such time, between 0.25 percent (high A rating) and 0.825 percent (below investment grade rating). The Company is required to pay a quarterly facility fee based on the total amount of revolving credit commitments (regardless of usage) under the Credit Agreement. Each of the Credit Agreement and Interim Loan Agreement contains covenants which, among other things, require that the Company maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio.
 
A copy of the Credit Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Credit Agreement. A copy of the Interim Loan Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the Interim Loan Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Interim Loan Agreement.
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On April 21, 2006, the Company completed its acquisition of Guidant Corporation, an Indiana corporation ("Guidant"). Pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 25, 2006 (the "Merger Agreement"), among the Company, Galaxy Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("Merger Sub"), and Guidant, Merger Sub merged with and into Guidant (the "Merger"), as a result of which Guidant became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
 
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, each share of Guidant common stock outstanding at the effective time of the Merger was converted into the right to receive (i) 1.6799 shares of Company common stock, (ii) $42.00 in cash and (iii) and an additional $0.28 in cash as interest. The aggregate consideration paid to former Guidant shareholders consisted of approximately 577 million shares of Company common stock and approximately $14.5 billion in cash.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
The information set forth above under Item 1.01 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
Item 3.03. Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
 
On April 21, 2006, the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee (the "Trustee"), entered into a First Supplemental Indenture and a Second Supplemental Indenture, each dated as of April 21, 2006, to the Indenture dated as of November 18, 2004 between the Company and the Trustee to provide for a potential interest rate adjustment to the Company's 5.50 percent Senior Notes Due 2015 (the "2015 Notes") and the Company's 6.25 percent Senior Notes Due 2035 (the "2035 Notes"), respectively, in the event that the Company's long-term senior, unsecured debt credit ratings change as a result of the Merger.
 
Pursuant to the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, on April 21, 2006, the Company announced that it has increased the interest rate payable on each of the 2015 Notes and the 2035 Notes by 0.75 percent.  Subsequent upgrades to the Company's long-term senior, unsecured debt credit ratings may result in a decrease in the interest rate of the 2015 Notes and the 2035 Notes, but in no event will the respective interest rates payable on the 2015 Notes and the 2035 Notes be adjusted below 5.50 percent and 6.25 percent.
 
A copy of the First Supplemental Indenture and the related notice to holders of the 2015 Notes are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.4 and Exhibit 99.5, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the Second Supplemental Indenture and the related notice to holders of the 2035 Notes are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.6 and Exhibit 99.7, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the First Supplemental Indenture and Second Supplemental Indenture is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired:
 
The audited consolidated balance sheets of Guidant as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 and the consolidated statements of operations, consolidated statements of shareholders' equity and consolidated statements of cash flows of Guidant for each of the three fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 and the schedule and independent registered public accounting firm's report related thereto are incorporated herein by reference to Guidant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.
 
b) Pro Forma Financial Information:
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company and Guidant as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 17, 2006.
 
c) Exhibits:
 
$7,000,000,000 Credit Agreement, dated as of April 21, 2006, by and among Boston Scientific Corporation, as Borrower, BSC International Holding Limited, as Term Loan Borrower, the several Lenders parties thereto, Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation, as Syndication Agent, Bear Stearns Corporate Lending Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Documentation Agents, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Banc of America Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners.
99.1
        
 
$7,000,000,000 Interim Loan Agreement, dated as of April 21, 2006, by and among Boston Scientific Corporation, as Borrower, the several Lenders parties thereto, Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation, as Syndication Agent, Bear Stearns Corporate Lending Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Documentation Agents, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Banc of America Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners.
99. 2
       
 
Press Release, dated April 21, 2006.
99.3
        
 
First Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 21, 2006 between Boston Scientific Corporation and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee.
99.4
        
 
Notice to Holders of Boston Scientific Corporation's 5.50% Senior Notes due 2015.
99.5
        
 
Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 21, 2006 between Boston Scientific Corporation and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee.
99.6
        
 
Notice to Holders of Boston Scientific Corporation's 6.25% Senior Notes due 2035.
99.7
        
 
Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.
99.8
        
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Execution Copy
 
Published CUSIP Number:                    
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
, dated as of April 21, 2006, among (i) , a Delaware corporation (the ""), (ii) , a company incorporated under the laws of Ireland (the ""), (iii) the several banks and other financial institutions or entities from time to time parties hereto (the ""), (iv) , as Syndication Agent (in such capacity, the ""), (v) , as co-documentation agents (collectively, the "") and (vi) , as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder (in such capacity, the "").
CREDIT AGREEMENT
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
Borrower
BSC INTERNATIONAL HOLDING LIMITED
Term Loan Borrower
Lenders
MERRILL LYNCH CAPITAL CORPORATION
Syndication Agent
BEAR STEARNS CORPORATE LENDING INC.,
DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC. AND WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
Documentation Agents
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
Administrative Agent
 
W I T N E S S E T H:
 
, pursuant to the agreement and plan of merger dated as of January 25, 2006 (the "") between the Borrower, Galaxy Merger Sub, Inc. ("") and Guidant Corporation (""), Acquisition Sub has agreed to merge (the "") with and into Target (the ""), with Target surviving the Merger;
WHEREAS
Acquisition Agreement
Acquisition Sub
Target
Merger
Acquisition
 
, the proceeds of the initial borrowing hereunder, the Interim Loans (as defined below) and the Abbott Loan (as defined below) will be used to finance in part the Merger and to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Transactions;
WHEREAS
 
, upon consummation of the Acquisition, Target will be a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower;
WHEREAS
 
, the Borrower has requested that the Lenders make Revolving Credit Loans (as defined below), CAF Advances (as defined below), Multicurrency Loans (as defined below), Swingline Loans (as defined below) and Local Currency Loans (as defined below) to the Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
WHEREAS
 
, the Term Loan Borrower has requested that the Term Lenders make Term Loans to the Term Loan Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth herein; and
WHEREAS
 
, the Lenders have agreed to make the credit facilities available upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein;
WHEREAS
 
, in consideration of the premises, and of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
SECTION 1 DEFINITIONS
 
1.1
         
Defined Terms.
 
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
"":  that $900.0 million aggregate principal amount of subordinated loans made to the Term Loan Borrower pursuant to the Abbott Loan Agreement.
Abbott Loan
 
"":  the promissory note, dated as of April 21, 2006, between the Term Loan Borrower and Abbott Laboratories that provides for the Abbott Loan.
Abbott Loan Agreement
 
"":  for any day, a rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Base CD Rate in effect on such day and (c) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day 1/2 of 1%. For purposes hereof:  "" shall mean the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by the Administrative Agent as its prime rate in effect (the Prime Rate not being intended to be the lowest rate of interest charged by Bank of America, in connection with extensions of credit to debtors); "" shall mean the sum of (a) the product of (i) the Three-Month Secondary CD Rate and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is one minus the C/D Reserve Percentage and (b) the C/D Assessment Rate; "" shall mean, for any day, the secondary market rate for three-month certificates of deposit reported as being in effect on such day (or, if such day shall not be a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day) by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "") through the public information telephone line of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (which rate will, under the current practices of the Board, be published in Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15(519) during the week following such day), or, if such rate shall not be so reported on such day or such next preceding Business Day, the average of the secondary market quotations for three-month certificates of deposit of major money center banks in New York City received at approximately 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on such day (or, if such day shall not be a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day) by the Administrative Agent from three New York City negotiable certificate of deposit dealers of recognized standing selected by it; and "" shall mean, for any day, the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for the day of such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it. Any change in the ABR due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Three-Month Secondary CD Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective as of the opening of business on the effective day of such change in the Prime Rate, the Three-Month Secondary CD Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
ABR
plus 1%
plus
Prime Rate
Base CD Rate
Three-Month Secondary CD Rate
Board
Federal Funds Effective Rate
 
"":  Term Loans, Revolving Credit Loans and Swingline Loans bearing interest based upon the ABR.
ABR Loans
"":  as defined in .
Additional Revolving Credit Commitment
Section 2.20
 
"":  with respect to each Lender, the Aggregate Committed Outstandings of such Lender, the amount of any participating interests purchased by such Lender pursuant to , the amount of any participating interests sold by such Lender pursuant to .
Adjusted Aggregate Committed Outstandings
plus
subsection 13.15
minus
subsection 13.15
 
"":  as defined in the preamble hereto.
Administrative Agent
 
"":  as to any Person, any other Person (other than a Subsidiary) which, directly or indirectly, is in control of, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" of a Person means the power, directly or indirectly, either to (a) vote 10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors of such Person or (b) direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
 
"":  that agency fee letter, dated as of March 23, 2006, between Bank of America, N.A. and the Borrower.
Agency Fee Letter
 
"":  the collective reference to the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, the Documentation Agents, the Arrangers and the Bookrunners.
Agents
 
"": as defined in the definition of "Majority Lenders."
Aggregate Exposure Percentage
 
"":  as at any date of determination with respect to all Multicurrency Lenders, an amount in Dollars equal to the sum of the Available Multicurrency Commitments of all Multicurrency Lenders on such date.
Aggregate Available Multicurrency Commitments
 
"":  as at any date of determination with respect to all Lenders, an amount in Dollars equal to the sum of the Available Revolving Credit Commitments of all Lenders on such date.
Aggregate Available Revolving Credit Commitments
 
"":  as at any date of determination with respect to any Lender, an amount in Dollars equal to the sum of (a) the Aggregate Revolving Credit Outstandings of such Lender on such date, (b) the Dollar Equivalent of the Aggregate Multicurrency Outstandings of such Lender on such date, and (c) the Dollar Equivalent of the Aggregate Local Currency Outstandings of such Lender on such date.
Aggregate Committed Outstandings
 
"":  as at any date of determination with respect to any Lender, an amount in the applicable Local Currencies equal to the aggregate unpaid principal amount of such Lender's Local Currency Loans.
Aggregate Local Currency Outstandings
 
"":  as at any date of determination with respect to any Lender, an amount in the applicable Available Foreign Currencies equal to the aggregate unpaid principal amount of such Lender's Multicurrency Loans.
Aggregate Multicurrency Outstandings
"":  the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments of all of the Lenders.
Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments
 
"":  as at any date of determination with respect to any Lender, an amount in Dollars equal to the sum of (a) the aggregate unpaid principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Loans on such date (b) such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment Percentage of (i) the aggregate outstanding principal of Swingline Loans and (ii) the L/C Obligations.
Aggregate Revolving Credit Outstandings
plus
 
"":  as at any date of determination with respect to any Lender, an amount in Dollars equal to the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of such Lender's Term Loans on such date, (b) the Aggregate Revolving Credit Outstandings of such Lender on such date, (c) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of such Lender's CAF Advances on such date, (d) the Dollar Equivalent of the Aggregate Multicurrency Outstandings of such Lender on such date and (e) the Dollar Equivalent of the Aggregate Local Currency Outstandings of such Lender on such date.
Aggregate Total Outstandings
 
"":  as at any date of determination with respect to any Lender, an amount in Dollars equal to the sum of (a) the Aggregate Revolving Credit Outstandings of such Lender on such date, (b) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of such Lender's CAF Advances on such date, (c) the Dollar Equivalent of the Aggregate Multicurrency Outstandings of such Lender on such date and (d) the Dollar Equivalent of the Aggregate Local Currency Outstandings of such Lender on such date.
Aggregate Total Revolving Outstandings
 
"":  this Credit Agreement, as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Agreement
 
"":  as defined in .
Agreement Currency
subsection 13.16(b)
 
"":  with respect to each day for each Type of Loan, the rate per annum based on the Ratings in effect on such day, as set forth under the relevant column heading below:
Applicable Margin
 
For purposes of the foregoing tables, the Rating Category shall be deemed to be Rating V until each of the Ratings Agencies announces or confirms after the Closing Date its rating applicable to the long-term senior unsecured non-credit enhanced debt of the Borrower.
 
"":  an application, in such form as the Issuing Lender may specify from time to time, requesting the Issuing Lender to issue a Letter of Credit.
Application
 
"":  Banc of America Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Joint Lead Arrangers for this Agreement.
Arrangers
 
"":  as defined in .
Assignee
subsection 13.6(c)
 
"":  euro, Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Pound Sterling, Singapore Dollar, Swiss Franc and any other available and freely convertible non-Dollar currency selected by the Borrower and approved by the Administrative Agent and the Multicurrency Lenders.
Available Foreign Currencies
 
"":  as at any date of determination with respect to any Multicurrency Lender (after giving effect to the making and payment of any Revolving Credit Loans required to be made on such date pursuant to ), an amount in Dollars equal to the lesser of (a) the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of such Multicurrency Lender's Multicurrency Commitment in effect on such date over (ii) the Dollar Equivalent of the Aggregate Multicurrency Outstandings of such Multicurrency Lender on such date, and (b) the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment in effect on such date over (ii) the Aggregate Committed Outstandings of such Lender on such date.
Available Multicurrency Commitment
subsection 2.19
 
"":  as at any date of determination with respect to any Lender (after giving effect to the making and payment of any Revolving Credit Loans required to be made on such date pursuant to ), an amount in Dollars equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment in effect on such date over (b) the Aggregate Committed Outstandings of such Lender on such date.
Available Revolving Credit Commitment
subsection 2.19
 
"":  Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of America
"":  as defined in the definition of ABR.
Base CD Rate
 
"":  as defined in .
benefited Lender
subsection 13.7
 
"":  as defined in the definition of ABR.
Board
 
"":  Banc of America Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Joint Bookrunners for this Agreement.
Bookrunners
 
"":  as defined in the preamble hereto.
Borrower
 
"":  the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower.
Borrowers
 
"":  any Business Day specified in a notice pursuant to , , or as a date on which the Borrowers request the Lenders to make Loans hereunder or, with respect to Local Currency Loans, the date on which a Foreign Subsidiary Borrower requests Local Currency Lenders to make Local Currency Loans to such Foreign Subsidiary Borrower pursuant to the Local Currency Facility to which such Foreign Subsidiary Borrower and Local Currency Lenders are parties.
Borrowing Date
subsection 2.2
2.5
2.12
2.17
 
"":  as defined in .
Business
subsection 6.11(b)
 
"":  a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York are authorized or required by law to close; that when such term is used for the purpose of determining the date on which the Eurocurrency Base Rate is determined under this Agreement for any Loan denominated in euro for any Interest Period therefor and for purposes of determining the first and last day of any such Interest Period, references in this Agreement to Business Days shall be deemed to be references to Target Operating Days; provided, further,
Business Day
provided
 
if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Loan denominated in Dollars, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Dollars in respect of any such Eurocurrency Loan, or any other dealings in Dollars to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Loan, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in Dollars are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market;
(a)
          
 
if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Multicurrency Loan or CAF Advance denominated in a currency other than Dollars or euro, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in the relevant currency are conducted by and between banks in the London or other applicable offshore interbank market for such currency; and
(b)
          
 
if such day relates to any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in a currency other than Dollars or euro in respect of a Multicurrency Loan or a CAF Advance denominated in a currency other than Dollars or euro, or any other dealings in any currency other than Dollars or euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Multicurrency Loan or CAF Advance (other than any interest
(c)
          
rate settings), means any such day on which banks are open for foreign exchange business in the principal financial center of the country of such currency.
 
"":  each competitive advance facility advance made pursuant to .
CAF Advance
subsection 2.11
 
"":  the period from and including the Closing Date to and including the date which is seven days prior to the Termination Date.
CAF Advance Availability Period
 
"":  each confirmation by the Borrower of its acceptance of CAF Advance Offers, which confirmation shall be substantially in the form of and shall be delivered to the Administrative Agent by facsimile transmission.
CAF Advance Confirmation
Exhibit F
 
"":  as to each CAF Advance, each interest payment date specified by the Borrower for such CAF Advance in the related CAF Advance Request.
CAF Advance Interest Payment Date
 
"":  as to any CAF Advance, the date specified by the Borrower pursuant to in its acceptance of the related CAF Advance Offer.
CAF Advance Maturity Date
subsection 2.12(d)(ii) 
 
"":  as defined in .
CAF Advance Note
subsection 3.13(e)
 
"":  each offer by a Lender to make CAF Advances pursuant to a CAF Advance Request, which offer shall contain the information specified in and shall be delivered to the Administrative Agent by telephone, immediately confirmed by facsimile transmission.
CAF Advance Offer
Exhibit E
 
"":  each request by the Borrower for Lenders to submit bids to make CAF Advances, which request shall contain the information in respect of such requested CAF Advances specified in and shall be delivered to the Administrative Agent in writing, by facsimile transmission, or by telephone, immediately confirmed by facsimile transmission.
CAF Advance Request
Exhibit D
 
"":  as to any Person, the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP and, for the purposes of this Agreement, the amount of such obligations at any time shall be the capitalized amount thereof at such time determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
 
"":  any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all warrants or options to purchase any of the foregoing.
Capital Stock
 
"":  for any day as applied to any ABR Loan, the annual assessment rate in effect on such day which is payable by a member of the Bank Insurance Fund maintained by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "") classified as well-capitalized and
C/D Assessment Rate
FDIC
within supervisory subgroup "B" (or a comparable successor assessment risk classification) within the meaning of 12 C.F.R.  327.4 (or any successor provision) to the FDIC (or any successor) for the FDIC's (or such successor's) insuring time deposits at offices of such institution in the United States.
 
"":  for any day as applied to any ABR Loan, that percentage (expressed as a decimal) which is in effect on such day, as prescribed by the Board, for determining the maximum reserve requirement for a Depositary Institution (as defined in Regulation D of the Board) in respect of new non-personal time deposits in Dollars having a maturity of 30 days or more.
C/D Reserve Percentage
 
"":  April 21, 2006.
Closing Date
 
"":  the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
 
"":  the period from and including the Closing Date to but excluding the Termination Date or such earlier date on which the Commitments shall terminate as provided herein.
Commitment Period
 
"":  the collective reference to the Revolving Credit Commitments, Multicurrency Commitments, Swingline Commitments and L/C Commitments.
Commitments
 
"":  on any date with respect to any Lender, the percentage which the Adjusted Aggregate Committed Outstandings of such Lender constitutes of the Adjusted Aggregate Committed Outstandings of all Lenders.
Committed Outstandings Percentage
 
"":  an entity, whether or not incorporated, which is under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 4001 of ERISA or is part of a group which includes the Borrower and which is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
Commonly Controlled Entity
 
"":  any special purpose corporation organized and administered by any Lender for the purpose of making Loans otherwise required to be made by such Lender and designated by such Lender in a written instrument; , that the designation by any Lender of a Conduit Lender shall not relieve the designating Lender of any of its obligations to fund a Loan under this Agreement if, for any reason, its Conduit Lender fails to fund any such Loan, and the designating Lender (and not the Conduit Lender) shall have the sole right and responsibility to deliver all consents and waivers required or requested under this Agreement with respect to its Conduit Lender; and , , that no Conduit Lender shall (a) be entitled to receive any greater amount pursuant to , , or than the designating Lender would have been entitled to receive in respect of the extensions of credit made by such Conduit Lender or (b) be deemed to have any Commitment.
Conduit Lender
provided
provided
further
Section 3.9
3.10
3.11
13.5
 
"":  of any Person for any period, Consolidated Net Income of such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period , without duplication and to the extent reflected as a charge in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) income tax expense, (b) Consolidated Interest Expense of such Person and its Subsidiaries,
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
any non-cash stock compensation expense in accordance with the adoption of FAS123(r), and minus, to the extent included in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) interest income (except to the extent deducted in determining Consolidated Interest Expense) and (b) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring income or gains (to the extent any of the foregoing are non-cash items) (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, gains on the sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business).
amortization or writeoff of debt discount and debt issuance costs and commissions, discounts and other fees and charges associated with Indebtedness, (c) depreciation expense, (d) amortization of intangibles (including, but not limited to, goodwill) and organization costs, (e) any extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring expenses or losses (to the extent any of the foregoing are non-cash items) (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business and including special charges and purchased research and development charges in connection with acquisitions) and (f) 
 
Consolidated EBITDA shall be calculated on a Pro Forma Basis to give effect to the Acquisition as if the Acquisition had been effected on the first day of such period.
 
"":  of any Person for any period, total interest expense of such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period with respect to all outstanding Indebtedness of such Person and its Subsidiaries determined in accordance with GAAP (including, all net costs that are allocable to such period in accordance with GAAP); that interest expense related to payments on the Abbott Loan intended to be paid solely in shares of the Borrower's common stock shall be excluded from this definition of "Consolidated Interest Expense."
Consolidated Interest Expense
provided
 
Consolidated Interest Expense shall be calculated on a Pro Forma Basis to give effect to any Indebtedness incurred, assumed or permanently repaid or extinguished during the relevant period in connection with the Acquisition as if such incurrence, assumption, repayment or extinguishing had been effected on the first day of such period.
 
"":  as at the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for such period to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
 
"":  as at the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Debt on such day to (b) Consolidated EBITDA of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such period.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
 
"":  of any Person for any period, the consolidated net income (or loss) of such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Income
 
"":  at any date, Consolidated Total Assets minus (without duplication) the net book value of all assets which would be treated as intangible assets, as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Tangible Assets
"":  at any date, the net book value of all assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Total Assets
 
"":  at any date, the aggregate principal amount of all Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries at such date, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Total Debt
 
"":  as defined in .
Continuing Directors
Section 10(j)
 
"":  as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
 
"":  any date on which either (a) an Event of Default under has occurred or (b) the Commitments shall have been terminated and/or the Loans shall have been declared immediately due and payable pursuant to .
Conversion Date
subsection 10(g) 
Section 10
 
"":  on any date with respect to any Lender and any Loans of such Lender outstanding in any currency other than Dollars, the percentage of such Loans such that, after giving effect to the conversion of such Loans to Dollars and the purchase and sale by such Lender of participating interests as contemplated by , the Committed Outstandings Percentage of such Lender will equal such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment Percentage on such date (calculated immediately prior to giving effect to any termination or expiration of the Commitments on the Conversion Date).
Conversion Sharing Percentage
subsection 13.15
 
"":  as defined in .
Converted Loans
subsection 13.15(a)
 
"":  any of the events specified in , whether or not any requirement for the giving of notice, the lapse of time, or both, or any other condition, has been satisfied.
Default
Section 10
 
"":  as defined in the preamble hereto.
Documentation Agents
 
"":  with respect to an amount denominated in any currency other than Dollars, the equivalent in Dollars of such amount determined at the Exchange Rate on the date of determination of such equivalent. In making any determination of the Dollar Equivalent for purposes of calculating the amount of Loans to be borrowed from the respective Lenders on any Borrowing Date, the Administrative Agent shall use the relevant Exchange Rate in effect on the date on which the interest rate for such Loans is determined pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
Dollar Equivalent
 
"" and "":  dollars in lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
 
"" means the Credit System Supervision Act 1992 (Wet toezicht kredietwezen 1992).
Dutch Banking Act
 
"":  any and all applicable foreign, Federal, state, local or municipal laws, rules, regulations, statutes, ordinances, codes, decrees or other enforceable requirements or
Environmental Laws
orders of any Governmental Authority or other Requirements of Law regulating, relating to or imposing liability or standards of conduct concerning protection of human health or the environment, as now or may at any time hereafter be in effect.
 
"":  the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
 
"":  the single currency of participating member states of the European Union.
euro
 
"":  (a) with respect to each day during each Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Loan, or a Multicurrency Loan or CAF Advance denominated in any currency other than Pounds Sterling, the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the offered rate for deposits in the applicable currency with a term comparable to such Interest Period that appears on the applicable Reuters page as the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate ("") at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, two Business Days prior to the beginning of such Interest Period; , , that if at any time for any reason such offered rate for any such currency does not appear on a Reuters page, "" shall mean, with respect to each day during each Interest Period pertaining to a Loan denominated in such currency, the rate per annum equal to the average (rounded upward to the nearest 1/16th of 1%) of the respective rates notified to the Administrative Agent by each of the Reference Lenders as the rate at which such Reference Lender offers deposits in such currency at or about 11:00 A.M., London time, two Business Days prior to the beginning of such Interest Period in the London interbank market for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period for the number of days comprised therein; and (b) with respect to each day during each Interest Period pertaining to a Multicurrency Loan or CAF Advance denominated in Pounds Sterling, the rate per annum equal to the average (rounded upward to the nearest 1/16th of 1%) of the respective rates notified to the Administrative Agent by each of the Reference Lenders as the rate at which such Reference Lender is offered deposits in Pounds Sterling at or about 11:00 A.M., London time, two Business Days prior to the beginning of such Interest Period in the London interbank market for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period for the number of days comprised therein.
Eurocurrency Base Rate
BBA LIBOR
provided
however
Eurocurrency Base Rate
 
"":  with respect to each day during each Interest Period pertaining to a Loan, a rate per annum determined for such day in accordance with the following formula (rounded upward to the nearest 1/100th of 1%):
Eurocurrency Rate
 
 "":  for any day as applied to a Loan, the aggregate (without duplication) of the rates (expressed as a decimal) of reserve requirements in effect on such day (including, without limitation, basic, supplemental, marginal and emergency reserves) under any regulations of the Board or other Governmental Authority having jurisdiction with respect thereto dealing with reserve requirements prescribed for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of such Board) maintained by a member bank of such System.
Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements
"":  Term Loans or Revolving Credit Loans, the rate of interest applicable to which is based upon the Eurocurrency Rate for Dollars.
Eurodollar Loans
 
"":  any of the events specified in , that any requirement for the giving of notice, the lapse of time, or both, or any other condition, has been satisfied.
Event of Default
Section 10
provided
 
"" means an examiner appointed under section 2 of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1990 (as amended) of Ireland.
examiner
 
"" means the Exemption Regulation pursuant to the Dutch Banking Act (Vrijstellingsregeling Wtk 1992).
Exemption Regulation
 
"":  any day on which the sum of the Aggregate Total Revolving Outstandings of all Lenders exceeds 50.0% of the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments hereunder (or, in each case, with respect to any day after termination of the Commitments under this Agreement, 50.0% of the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments in effect on the date immediately prior to the date on which the Commitments terminated).
Excess Utilization Day
 
"":  with respect to any non-Dollar currency on any date, the rate at which such currency may be exchanged into Dollars, as set forth on such date on the relevant Reuters currency page at or about 11:00 A.M., local time, on the date that is two Business Days prior to the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made. In the event that such rate does not appear on any Reuters currency page, the "Exchange Rate" with respect to such non-Dollar currency shall be determined by reference to such other publicly available service for displaying exchange rates as may be agreed upon by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower or, in the absence of such agreement, such "Exchange Rate" shall instead be the Administrative Agent's spot rate of exchange in the interbank market where its foreign currency exchange operations in respect of such non-Dollar currency are then being conducted, at or about 10:00 A.M., local time, on such date for the purchase of Dollars with such non-Dollar currency, for delivery two Business Days later; , that if at the time of any such determination, no such spot rate can reasonably be quoted, the Administrative Agent may use any reasonable method as it deems applicable to determine such rate, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Administrative Agent shall determine the Exchange Rate as of each Revaluation Date in accordance with the foregoing.
Exchange Rate
provided
 
"" or "":  the (a) Term Loans made on the Closing Date (the "") and (b) Revolving Credit Commitments and the extensions of credit made thereunder (the "").
Facility
Facilities
Term Facility
Revolving Credit Facility
 
"":  for each day during each calculation period, the rate per annum based on the Ratings in effect on such day, as set forth below:
Facility Fee Rate
 
"":  the Closing Date.
Fee Commencement Date
 
"":  any lease of property, real or personal, the obligations of the lessee in respect of which are required in accordance with GAAP to be capitalized on a balance sheet of the lessee.
Financing Lease
 
"":  Fitch Ratings.
Fitch
 
"":  any CAF Advance made pursuant to a Fixed Rate CAF Advance Request.
Fixed Rate CAF Advance
 
"":  any CAF Advance Request requesting the Lenders to offer to make CAF Advances at a fixed rate (as opposed to a rate composed of the Eurocurrency Rate plus (or minus) a margin).
Fixed Rate CAF Advance Request
 
"":  each Subsidiary of the Borrower organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States that the Borrower designates as a "Foreign Subsidiary Borrower" in a Local Currency Facility Addendum.
Foreign Subsidiary Borrower
 
"":  as at any date of determination (after giving effect to the making and payment of any Loans made on such date pursuant to ), with respect to any Lender, that percentage which the Available Revolving Credit Commitment of such Lender then constitutes of the Aggregate Available Revolving Credit Commitments.
Funding Commitment Percentage
subsection 2.19
 
"":  generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America consistent with those utilized in preparing the audited financial statements referred to in .
GAAP
subsection 6.1
 
"":  any nation or government, any state or other political subdivision thereof and any entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
 
"": a guarantee of the Obligations in the form of or otherwise in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
Guarantee
Exhibit L
 
"":  as to any Person (the ""), any obligation of (a) the guaranteeing person or (b) another Person (including, without limitation, any bank under any letter of credit) to induce the creation of which the guaranteeing person has issued a reimbursement, counterindemnity or similar obligation, in either case guaranteeing or in effect guaranteeing
Guarantee Obligation
guaranteeing person
any Indebtedness, leases, dividends or other obligations (the "") of any other unrelated third Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, including, without limitation, any obligation of the guaranteeing person, whether or not contingent, (i) to purchase any such primary obligation or any property constituting direct or indirect security therefor, (ii) to advance or supply funds (1) for the purchase or payment of any such primary obligation or (2) to maintain working capital or equity capital of the primary obligor or otherwise to maintain the net worth or solvency of the primary obligor, (iii) to purchase property, securities or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of any such primary obligation of the ability of the primary obligor to make payment of such primary obligation or (iv) otherwise to assure or hold harmless the owner of any such primary obligation against loss in respect thereof; , , that the term Guarantee Obligation shall not include endorsements of instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of business. The amount of any Guarantee Obligation of any guaranteeing person shall be deemed to be the lower of (a) an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Guarantee Obligation is made and (b) the maximum amount for which such guaranteeing person may be liable pursuant to the terms of the instrument embodying such Guarantee Obligation, unless such primary obligation and the maximum amount for which such guaranteeing person may be liable are not stated or determinable, in which case the amount of such Guarantee Obligation shall be such guaranteeing person's reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the Borrower in good faith.
primary obligations
primary obligor
provided
however
 
"":  any Person that executes a Guarantee.
Guarantor
 
 "":  all agreements with non-related third parties with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreements involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions; that no employee benefit plan of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall be a "Hedge Agreement".
Hedge Agreements
provided
 
"":  of any Person at any date, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than current trade liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of such Person's business and payable in accordance with customary practices and earn-outs and other similar obligations in respect of acquisition and other similar agreements), (c) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar instruments, (d) all indebtedness created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property), (e) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (f) all obligations of such Person, contingent or otherwise, as an account party or applicant under or in respect of acceptances, letters of credit, surety bonds or similar arrangements, (g) the liquidation value of all redeemable preferred Capital Stock of such Person, (h) all indebtedness of such Person, determined in accordance with GAAP, arising out of a Receivables Transaction, (i) all Guarantee Obligations of such Person in respect of obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (a) through (h) above, (j) all obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (a) through (i) above secured by (or for which the holder of
Indebtedness
such obligation has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, whether or not such Person has assumed or become liable for the payment of such obligation, and (k) for the purposes of only, all obligations of such Person in respect of Hedge Agreements. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness expressly provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
Section 10(f) 
 
"":  with respect to any Multiemployer Plan, the condition that such Plan is insolvent within the meaning of Section 4245 of ERISA.
Insolvency
 
"":  pertaining to a condition of Insolvency.
Insolvent
 
"":  (a) as to any ABR Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December and the Termination Date, (b) as to any Eurodollar Loan or Multicurrency Loan having an Interest Period of three months or less, the last day of such Interest Period, and (c) as to any Eurodollar Loan or Multicurrency Loan having an Interest Period longer than three months, each day which is three months, or a whole multiple thereof, after the first day of such Interest Period and the last day of such Interest Period.
Interest Payment Date
 
"":  (a) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan or Multicurrency Loan:
Interest Period
 
initially, the period commencing on the Borrowing Date or conversion date, as the case may be, with respect to such Eurodollar Loan or Multicurrency Loan and ending one, two, three, six or nine (or, if available to all the applicable Lenders under the relevant Facility, twelve) months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower (in the case of Multicurrency Loans and Revolving Loans) or the Term Loan Borrower (in the case of Term Loans) in its notice of borrowing or notice of conversion, as the case may be, given with respect thereto; and
(i)
           
 
thereafter, each period commencing on the last day of the next preceding Interest Period applicable to such Eurodollar Loan or Multicurrency Loan and ending one, two, three, six or nine (or, if available to all the applicable Lenders under the relevant Facility, twelve) months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower (in the case of Multicurrency Loans and Revolving Loans) or the Term Loan Borrower (in the case of Term Loans) by irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent not less than three Business Days prior to the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto;
(ii)
          
 
that, all of the foregoing provisions relating to Interest Periods are subject to the following:
provided
 
if any Interest Period would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless the result of such extension would be to carry such Interest Period into another calendar
(1)
          
month in which event such Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Business Day;
 
any Interest Period in respect of any Loan made by any Lender that would otherwise extend beyond the Termination Date applicable to such Lender shall end on such Termination Date; and
(2)
          
 
any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of a calendar month; and
(3)
          
 
with respect to any LIBO Rate CAF Advance, the period beginning on the Borrowing Date with respect thereto and ending on the CAF Advance Maturity Date with respect thereto.
(b)
          
 
"" means that certain interim credit agreement, dated as of April 21, 2006 among the Borrower, the Arrangers and the agents and lenders identified therein.
Interim Credit Agreement
 
"":  the $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of loans made to the Borrower pursuant to the Interim Credit Agreement.
Interim Loans
 
"":  Bank of America, N.A., in its capacity as issuer of any Letter of Credit; that with respect to that certain $10,727,000 letter of credit issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank that expires on July 1, 2006 (the ""), "Issuing Lender" shall mean JPMorgan Chase Bank.
Issuing Lender
provided
JPMorgan Letter of Credit
 
"":  as defined in .
Judgment Currency
subsection 13.16(b)
 
"":  $800,000,000.
L/C Commitment
 
"":  the last day of each March, June, September and December and the last day of the Commitment Period.
L/C Fee Payment Date
 
"":  at any time, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the aggregate then undrawn and unexpired amount of the then outstanding Letters of Credit and (b) the aggregate amount of drawings under Letters of Credit that have not then been reimbursed pursuant to .
L/C Obligations
subsection 5.5
 
"":  the collective reference to all the Lenders other than (i) the Issuing Lender and (ii) the Term Lenders.
L/C Participants
 
"":  (a) any Affiliate of any Lender, (b) any Person that is administered or managed by any Lender and that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and (c) with respect to any Lender which is a fund that invests in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit, any other fund that invests in commercial loans and similar extensions of
Lender Affiliate
credit and is managed or advised by the same investment advisor as such Lender or by an Affiliate of such Lender or investment advisor.
 
"":  as defined in the preamble hereto; , that unless the context otherwise requires, each reference herein to the Lenders shall be deemed to include any Conduit Lender.
Lenders
provided
 
"":  as defined in .
Letters of Credit
subsection 5.1(a)
 
"":  any CAF Advance made pursuant to a LIBO Rate CAF Advance Request.
LIBO Rate CAF Advance
 
"":  any CAF Advance Request requesting the Lenders to offer to make CAF Advances at an interest rate equal to the Eurocurrency Rate for the currency of such CAF Advance plus (or minus) a margin.
LIBO Rate CAF Advance Request
 
"":  any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge or other security interest or any preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement and any Financing Lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
 
"":  any Term Loan, Revolving Credit Loan, CAF Advance, Multicurrency Loan, Swingline Loan or Local Currency Loan, as the case may be.
Loan
 
"":  this Agreement, any Notes, the Applications, any Guarantee and any document or instrument evidencing or governing any Local Currency Facility.
Loan Documents
 
"":  as defined in .
Loans to be Converted
subsection 13.15(a)
 
"":  any available and freely convertible non-Dollar currency selected by a Foreign Subsidiary Borrower and approved by the Administrative Agent.
Local Currency
 
"":  any Qualified Credit Facility that the Borrower designates as a "Local Currency Facility" pursuant to a Local Currency Facility Addendum.
Local Currency Facility
 
"":  a Local Currency Facility Addendum received by the Administrative Agent, substantially in the form of , and conforming to the requirements of Section 4.
Local Currency Facility Addendum
Exhibit J
 
"":  with respect to each Local Currency Facility, the Local Currency Lender acting as agent for the Local Currency Lenders parties thereto (and, in the case of any Local Currency Facility to which only one Lender is a party, such Lender).
Local Currency Facility Agent
 
"":  as defined in .
Local Currency Facility Maximum Borrowing Amount
subsection 4.1(b)
 
"":  any Lender (or, if applicable, any Affiliate, branch or agency thereof) party to a Local Currency Facility.
Local Currency Lender
"":  as defined in .
Local Currency Lender Maximum Borrowing Amount
subsection 4.1(b)
 
"":  any loan made pursuant to a Local Currency Facility.
Local Currency Loan
 
"":  Lenders whose Aggregate Exposure Percentage in the aggregate is more than 50%. "":  as at any date of determination with respect to any Lender (a) at any time prior to the termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments and aggregate principal amount of Term Loans outstanding of such Lender the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments and aggregate principal amount of Term Loans outstanding of all Lenders and (b) at any time after the termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, the Aggregate Total Outstandings of such Lender the Aggregate Total Outstandings of all Lenders; that for purposes of this definition, the Aggregate Exposure Percentage of each Lender shall be adjusted upward or downward so as to give effect to any participations or assignments effected pursuant to .
Majority Lenders
Aggregate Exposure Percentage
divided by
divided by
provided
subsection 13.15
 
"":  at any time, Multicurrency Lenders the Multicurrency Commitment Percentages of which aggregate more than 50%.
Majority Multicurrency Lenders
 
"":  Lenders whose Revolving Exposure in the aggregate is more than 50%. "":  as at any date of determination with respect to any Revolving Lender (a) at any time prior to the termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments of such Lender the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments of all Lenders and (b) at any time after the termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, the Aggregate Total Revolving Outstandings of such Lender the Aggregate Total Revolving Outstandings of all Lenders; that such calculation shall be adjusted upward or downward so as to give effect to any participations or assignments effected pursuant to .
Majority Revolving Lenders
Revolving Exposure
divided by
divided by
provided
subsection 13.15
 
"":  a material adverse effect on (a) the business, operations, property or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole or (b) the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or the rights or remedies of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders hereunder or thereunder.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"":  any gasoline or petroleum (including crude oil or any fraction thereof) or petroleum products or any hazardous or toxic substances, materials or wastes, defined or regulated as such in or under any Environmental Law, including, without limitation, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and urea-formaldehyde insulation.
Materials of Environmental Concern
 
"":  Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
 
"":  as to any Multicurrency Lender at any time, its obligation to make Multicurrency Loans to the Borrower in an aggregate amount in Available Foreign Currencies the Dollar Equivalent of which does not exceed at any time outstanding the amount set forth opposite such Multicurrency Lender's name in under the heading "Multicurrency
Multicurrency Commitment
Schedule I
Commitment", as such amount may be reduced from time to time as provided in and the other applicable provisions hereof.
subsection 2.18
 
"":  as to any Multicurrency Lender at any time, the percentage which such Multicurrency Lender's Multicurrency Commitment at such time constitutes of the aggregate Multicurrency Commitments of all Multicurrency Lenders at such time (or, if the Multicurrency Commitments have terminated or expired, the percentage which (a) the Dollar Equivalent of the Aggregate Multicurrency Outstandings of such Multicurrency Lender at such time constitutes of (b) the Dollar Equivalent of the Aggregate Multicurrency Outstandings of all Multicurrency Lenders at such time).
Multicurrency Commitment Percentage
 
"":  each Lender having an amount greater than zero set forth opposite such Lender's name in under the heading "Multicurrency Commitment."
Multicurrency Lender
Schedule I
 
"":  as defined in .
Multicurrency Loans
subsection 2.15
 
"":  as defined in .
Multicurrency Note
subsection 3.13(g)
 
"":  a Plan which is a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
 
"":  as defined in .
Non-Excluded Taxes
subsection 3.10
 
"":  each Revolving Credit Lender which is not a Multicurrency Lender.
Non-Multicurrency Lender
 
"":  the collective reference to any Term Notes, any Revolving Credit Notes, any Multicurrency Notes and any CAF Advance Notes.
Notes
 
"":  with respect to each Local Currency Facility Agreement, a notice from the relevant Local Currency Facility Agent containing the information, delivered to the Administrative Agent and any other Person, in the manner and by the time, specified for a Notice of Local Currency Outstandings in .
Notice of Local Currency Outstandings
Schedule II
 
"":  with respect to a Multicurrency Loan, a notice from the Borrower containing the information in respect of such Loan, delivered to the Administrative Agent and any other Person, in the manner and by the time, specified for a Notice of Multicurrency Loan Borrowing in respect of the currency of such Loan in .
Notice of Multicurrency Loan Borrowing
Schedule II
 
"":  with respect to a Multicurrency Loan, a notice from the Borrower containing the information in respect of such Loan, delivered to the Person, in the manner and by the time, specified for a Notice of Multicurrency Loan Continuation in respect of the currency of such Loan in .
Notice of Multicurrency Loan Continuation
Schedule II
 
"":  collectively, the unpaid principal of and interest on the Loans and all other obligations and liabilities of the Borrower, the Term Loan Borrower and each Foreign Subsidiary Borrower under this Agreement and any Local Currency Facility and other Loan Documents
Obligations
 
to which it is a party (including, without limitation, interest accruing at the then applicable rate provided in this Agreement or any other applicable Loan Document after the maturity of the Loans and interest accruing at the then applicable rate provided in this Agreement or any other applicable Loan Document after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy, or the commencement of any insolvency, reorganization or like proceeding, relating to the Borrower, the Term Loan Borrower or such Foreign Subsidiary Borrower, whether or not a claim for post-filing or post-petition interest is allowed in such proceeding), whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, due or to become due, or now existing or hereafter incurred, which may arise under, out of, or in connection with, this Agreement, the Notes, the other Loan Documents, Hedge Agreements entered into with Lenders or any other document made, delivered or given in connection therewith, in each case whether on account of principal, interest, reimbursement obligations, fees, indemnities, costs, expenses or otherwise (including, without limitation, all fees and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent or to the Lenders that are required to be paid by the Borrower, the Term Loan Borrower or any Foreign Subsidiary Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or any other Loan Document).
 
"":  as defined in .
Participant
subsection 13.6(b)
 
"":  as defined in .
Patriot Act
subsection 13.18
 
"":  the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation established pursuant to Subtitle A of Title IV of ERISA.
PBGC
 
"":  an individual, partnership, corporation, business trust, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, Governmental Authority or other entity of whatever nature.
Person
 
"":  at a particular time, any employee benefit plan which is covered by ERISA and in respect of which the Borrower or a Commonly Controlled Entity is (or, if such plan were terminated at such time, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
 
"":  as defined in .
Platform
subsection 8.2
 
"" means a professional market party (professionele marktpartij) within the meaning of the Exemption Regulation.
PMP
 
"" means on a pro forma basis with such adjustments as the chief financial officer of the Borrower shall reasonably and in good faith determine to be appropriate to give effect to the Acquisition and the incurrence of Indebtedness in connection therewith; that such adjustments are deemed acceptable by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion.
Pro Forma Basis
provided
 
"":  as defined in .
Properties
subsection 6.11
 
"":  a credit facility (a) providing for one or more Local Currency Lenders to make unsecured loans denominated in a Local Currency to a Foreign Subsidiary
Qualified Credit Facility
Borrower, (b) providing for such loans to bear interest at a rate or rates determined by the Borrower and such Local Currency Lender or Local Currency Lenders and (c) otherwise conforming to the requirements of .
Section 4
 
"":  the respective rating of each of the Rating Agencies applicable to the long-term senior unsecured non-credit enhanced debt of the Borrower, as announced by the Rating Agencies from time to time.
Rating
 
"":  collectively, Fitch, Moody's and S&P.
Rating Agencies
 
"":  each of Rating I, Rating II, Rating III, Rating IV, Rating V, Rating VI and Rating VII.
Rating Category
 
"":  the respective Ratings set forth below:
Rating I, Rating II, Rating III, Rating IV, Rating V, Rating VI and Rating VII
 
 
A Rating Category shall apply at any date if, at such date, the Ratings are better than or equal to at least two of the three Ratings in any such Ratings Category, and a higher rating category does not apply.
 
"":  any accounts receivable of any Person, including, without limitation, any thereof constituting or evidenced by chattel paper, instruments or general intangibles (as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code of the State of New York), and all proceeds thereof and rights (contractual and other) and collateral related thereto.
Receivables
 
"":  any special purpose, bankruptcy remote Subsidiary of the Borrower that purchases, on a revolving basis, Receivables generated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
Receivables Subsidiary
 
"":  any transactions or series of related transactions providing for the financing of Receivables of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
Receivables Transaction
 
"":  Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch and Wachovia Bank, National Association.
Reference Lenders
"":  as defined in .
Refunded Swingline Loans
subsection 2.7(b)
 
"":  as defined in .
Refunding Date
subsection 2.7(c)
 
"":  as defined in .
Register
subsection 13.6(d)
 
"":  the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the Issuing Lender pursuant to for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit.
Reimbursement Obligation
subsection 5.5(a) 
 
"":  with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and partners, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
 
"":  with respect to any Multiemployer Plan, the condition that such plan is in reorganization within the meaning of Section 4241 of ERISA.
Reorganization
 
"":  any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than those events as to which the thirty day notice period is waived under subsections .27, .28, .29, .30, .31, ..32, .34 or .35 of PBGC Reg.  4043.
Reportable Event
 
"":  as defined in .
Requested Local Currency Loans
subsection 2.19(b)
 
"":  as defined in .
Requested Multicurrency Loans
subsection 2.19(a)
 
"":  as to any Person, the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws or other organizational or governing documents of such Person, and any law, treaty, rule or regulation or determination of an arbitrator or a court or other Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its property or to which such Person or any of its property is subject.
Requirement of Law
 
"":  with respect to (i) the Borrower, the chief executive officer or the president of the Borrower or, with respect to financial matters, the chief financial officer of the Borrower and (ii) the Term Loan Borrower, the chief financial officer of the Term Loan Borrower.
Responsible Officer
 
"":  (a) with respect to any Loan, each of the following:  (i) each date of a borrowing of a Multicurrency Loan or a Local Currency Loan or the making of a CAF Advance, (ii) each date of a continuation of a Multicurrency Loan pursuant to and (iii) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent shall determine or the Majority Lenders shall require; and (b) with respect to any Letter of Credit, each of the following:  (i) each date of issuance of a Letter of Credit denominated in a currency other than Dollars, (ii) each date of an amendment of any such Letter of Credit having the effect of increasing the amount thereof (solely with respect to the increased amount), (iii) each date of any payment by the Issuing Lender under any Letter of Credit denominated in a currency other than Dollars and (iv) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Lender shall determine or the Majority Lenders shall require.
Revaluation Date
subsection 3.2
"":  as to any Lender, the obligation of such Lender to make Revolving Credit Loans to the Borrower hereunder in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on under the heading "Revolving Credit Commitment," as such amount may be reduced or increased from time to time in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Revolving Credit Commitment
Schedule I
 
"":  as to any Lender at any time, the percentage which such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment at such time constitutes of the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments at such time (or, if the Revolving Credit Commitments have terminated or expired, the percentage which (a) the Aggregate Revolving Credit Outstandings of such Lender at such time then constitutes of (b) the Aggregate Revolving Credit Outstandings of all Lenders at such time).
Revolving Credit Commitment Percentage
 
"":  as defined in .
Revolving Credit Loans
subsection 2.4
 
"":  as defined in .
Revolving Credit Note
subsection 3.13(d)
 
"":  each Lender that has a Revolving Credit Commitment hereunder or that holds Revolving Credit Loans.
Revolving Lender
 
"":  Standard & Poor's Ratings Services.
S&P
 
"":  any Plan that is covered by Title IV of ERISA, but that is not a Multiemployer Plan.
Single Employer Plan
 
"":  as to any Person, a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity of which shares of stock or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power (other than stock or such other ownership interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such corporation, partnership or other entity are at the time owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise qualified, all references to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" in this Agreement shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
 
"":  the obligation of the Swingline Lender to make Swingline Loans pursuant to in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed $150,000,000.
Swingline Commitment
subsection 2.6
 
"":  Bank of America, N.A., in its capacity as the lender of Swingline Loans.
Swingline Lender
 
"":  as defined in . Swingline Loans will only be made available in Dollars.
Swingline Loans
subsection 2.6
 
"":  as defined in .
Swingline Participation Amount
subsection 2.7(c)
 
"":  as defined in the preamble hereto.
Syndication Agent
"":  any day that is not (a) a Saturday or Sunday, (b) Christmas Day or New Year's Day or (c) any other day on which the Trans-European Real-time Gross Settlement Operating System (or any successor settlement system) is not operating (as determined by the Administrative Agent).
Target Operating Day
 
"":  each Lender that holds Term Loans.
Term Lender
 
"":  as defined in the preamble hereto.
Term Loan Borrower
 
"":  as to any Lender, the obligation of such Lender to make Term Loans to the Term Loan Borrower hereunder on the Closing Date in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on under the heading "Term Loan Commitment."
Term Loan Commitment
Schedule I
 
"":  as to any Lender at any time, the percentage which such Lender's Term Loans at such time constitutes of the total Term Loans outstanding at such time.
Term Loan Percentage
 
"":  as defined in .
Term Loan Note
subsection 3.13(f)
 
"":  as defined in .
Term Loans
subsection 2.1
 
"":  April 21, 2011.
Termination Date
 
"":  the collective reference to Eurodollar Loans or Multicurrency Loans the then current Interest Periods with respect to all of which begin on the same date and end on the same later date (whether or not such Loans shall originally have been made on the same day); Tranches may be identified as "Eurodollar Tranches" or "Multicurrency Tranches".
Tranche
 
"":  the consummation of the Merger, the Acquisition and the borrowings of the Abbott Loan, the Interim Loans and the initial Loans hereunder.
Transactions
 
"":  as defined in .
Transferee
subsection 13.6(f)
 
"":  as to any Term Loan or Revolving Credit Loan, its nature as an ABR Loan or a Eurodollar Loan.
Type
 
"":  the United States of America (including the states, commonwealths and territories thereof and the District of Columbia).
United States
 
1.2
         
Other Definitional Provisions.
 
Unless otherwise specified therein, all terms defined in this Agreement shall have the defined meanings when used in any Notes or any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto.
(a)
          
 
As used herein and in any Notes, and any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto, accounting terms relating to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries not
(b)
          
defined in and accounting terms partly defined in , to the extent not defined, shall have the respective meanings given to them under GAAP.
subsection 1.1
subsection 1.1
 
The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and Section, subsection, Schedule and Exhibit references are to this Agreement unless otherwise specified.
(c)
          
 
The meanings given to terms defined herein shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of such terms.
(d)
          
 
SECTION 2 AMOUNT AND TERMS OF COMMITMENTS
 
. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Lender with a Term Loan Commitment severally agrees to make a term loan in Dollars (a "") to the Term Loan Borrower on the Closing Date in an amount not to exceed the amount of the Term Loan Commitment of such Term Loan Lender. The Term Loans may from time to time be Eurodollar Loans or ABR Loans, as determined by the Term Loan Borrower and notified to the Administrative Agent in accordance with and . The Term Loan Commitments shall expire at 5:00 p.m. on the Closing Date. Amounts borrowed under this and repaid or prepaid may not be reborrowed.
2.1
Term Loans
         
Term Loan
Sections 2.2
3.2
Section 2.1
 
. The Term Loan Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent irrevocable notice (which notice must be received by the Administrative Agent prior to 10:00 A.M., New York City time, (a) three Business Days prior to the anticipated Closing Date, if all or any part of the requested Term Loans are to be initially Eurodollar Loans and (b) on the anticipated Closing Date otherwise) requesting that the Term Lenders make the Term Loans on the Closing Date and specifying the amount to be borrowed. Upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Term Lender thereof. Not later than 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on the Closing Date each Term Lender shall make available to the Administrative Agent an amount in immediately available funds equal to the Term Loan or Term Loans to be made by such Lender. The Administrative Agent shall credit the account of the Term Loan Borrower with the aggregate of the amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by the Term Lenders in immediately available funds.
2.2
Procedure for Term Loan Borrowing
         
 
. The principal amount of the Term Loans shall be payable in the amounts and on the dates set forth below:
2.3
Amortization of Term Loans
         
 
. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Revolving Lender severally agrees to make revolving credit loans ("") in Dollars to the Borrower from time to time during the Commitment Period so long as after giving effect thereto (i) the Available Revolving Credit Commitment of each Revolving Lender is greater than or equal to zero and (ii) the Aggregate Total Revolving Outstandings of all Lenders do not exceed the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments. During the Commitment Period, the Borrower may use the Revolving Credit Commitments by borrowing, prepaying the Revolving Credit Loans in whole or in part, and reborrowing, all in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof.
2.4
Revolving Credit Commitments
         
Revolving Credit Loans
 
The Revolving Credit Loans may from time to time be (i) Eurodollar Loans, (ii) ABR Loans or (iii) a combination thereof, as determined by the Borrower and notified to the Administrative Agent in accordance with and , that no Revolving Credit Loan shall be made as a Eurodollar Loan after the day that is one month prior to the Termination Date.
(b)
          
subsections 2.5
3.2
provided
 
. The Borrower may borrow under the Revolving Credit Commitments during the Commitment Period on any Business Day, that the Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent irrevocable notice (which notice must be received by the Administrative Agent prior to 10:00 A.M., New York City time, (a) three Business Days prior to the requested Borrowing Date, if all or any part of the requested Revolving Credit Loans are to be initially Eurodollar Loans or (b) on the requested Borrowing Date, otherwise), in each case specifying (i) the amount to be borrowed, (ii) the requested Borrowing Date, (iii) whether the borrowing is to be of Eurodollar Loans, ABR Loans or a combination thereof and (iv) if the borrowing is to be entirely or partly of Eurodollar Loans, the amount of such Type of Loan and the length of the initial Interest Period therefor. Each borrowing under the Revolving Credit Commitments (other than a borrowing under , and ) shall be in an amount equal to (x) in the case of ABR Loans, $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or, if the Aggregate Available Revolving Credit Commitments are less than $1,000,000, such lesser amount) and (y) in the case of Eurodollar Loans, $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Upon receipt of any such notice from the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Revolving Lender thereof. Prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the Borrowing Date requested by the Borrower, each Revolving Lender will make an amount equal to its Funding Commitment Percentage of the principal amount of the Revolving Credit Loans requested to be made on such Borrowing Date available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Borrower at the office of the Administrative Agent specified in in funds immediately available to the Administrative Agent. Except as otherwise provided in , such borrowing will then be made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent crediting the account of the Borrower with the aggregate of the amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by the Revolving Lenders and in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent.
2.5
Procedure for Revolving Credit Borrowing
         
provided
subsections 2.7
2.19
5.5
subsection 13.2
subsection 2.19
 
. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swingline Lender agrees to make a portion of the credit otherwise available to the Borrower under the Revolving Credit Commitments from time to time during the Commitment Period by making swing line loans ("") to the Borrower; that (i) the aggregate
2.6
Swingline Commitment
         
Swingline Loans
provided
principal amount of Swingline Loans outstanding at any time shall not exceed the Swingline Commitment then in effect (notwithstanding that the Swingline Loans outstanding at any time, when aggregated with the Swingline Lender's other outstanding Revolving Credit Loans, may exceed the Swingline Commitment then in effect) and (ii) the Borrower shall not request, and the Swingline Lender shall not make, any Swingline Loan if, after giving effect to the making of such Swingline Loan, the aggregate amount of the Available Revolving Credit Commitments of the Swingline Lender would be less than zero. During the Commitment Period, the Borrower may use the Swingline Commitment by borrowing, repaying and reborrowing, all in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof. Swingline Loans shall be ABR Loans only.
 
.
2.7
Procedure for Swingline Borrowing; Refunding of Swingline Loans
         
 
Whenever the Borrower desires that the Swingline Lender make Swingline Loans it shall give the Swingline Lender irrevocable telephonic notice confirmed promptly in writing (which telephonic notice must be received by the Swingline Lender not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the proposed Borrowing Date), specifying (i) the amount to be borrowed and (ii) the requested Borrowing Date (which shall be a Business Day during the Revolving Commitment Period). Each borrowing under the Swingline Commitment shall be in an amount equal to $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof. Not later than 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Borrowing Date specified in a notice in respect of Swingline Loans, the Swingline Lender shall make available to the Administrative Agent at its funding office an amount in immediately available funds equal to the amount of the Swingline Loan to be made by the Swingline Lender. The Administrative Agent shall make the proceeds of such Swingline Loan available to the Borrower on such Borrowing Date by depositing such proceeds in the account of the Borrower on such Borrowing Date in immediately available funds.
(a)
          
 
The Swingline Lender, at any time and from time to time in its sole and absolute discretion may, on behalf of the Borrower (which hereby irrevocably directs the Swingline Lender to act on its behalf), on one Business Day's notice given by the Swingline Lender no later than 12:00 Noon, New York City time, request each Revolving Lender (including the Swingline Lender in its capacity as a Revolving Lender having a Revolving Credit Commitment) to make, and each Revolving Lender hereby agrees to make, a Revolving Credit Loan that is an ABR Loan, in an amount equal to such Revolving Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment Percentage of the aggregate amount of the Swingline Loans (the "") outstanding on the date of such notice, to repay the Swingline Lender. Each Revolving Lender shall make the amount of such Revolving Credit Loan available to the Administrative Agent at the office of the Administrative Agent specified in in immediately available funds, not later than 10:00 A.M., New York City time, one Business Day after the date of such notice. The proceeds of such Revolving Credit Loans shall be immediately made available by the Administrative Agent to the Swingline Lender for application by the Swingline Lender to the repayment of the Refunded Swingline Loans. The Borrower irrevocably authorizes the Swingline Lender to charge the Borrower's accounts with the Administrative Agent (up to the amount available in each such account) in order to immediately pay the amount of such Refunded Swingline Loans to the extent amounts received from the Revolving Lenders are not sufficient to repay in full such Refunded Swingline Loans if such deficiency is not otherwise reimbursed by the Borrower
(b)
          
Refunded Swingline Loans
subsection 13.2
on the Business Day following a written request for such reimbursement to the Borrower by the Swingline Lender.
 
If prior to the time a Revolving Credit Loan would have otherwise been made pursuant to , one of the events described in shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to the Borrower or if for any other reason, as determined by the Swingline Lender in its sole discretion, Revolving Credit Loans may not be made as contemplated by , each Revolving Lender shall, on the date such Revolving Credit Loan was to have been made pursuant to the notice referred to in (the ""), purchase for cash an undivided participating interest in the then outstanding Swingline Loans by paying to the Swingline Lender an amount (the "") equal to (i) such Revolving Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment Percentage times (ii) the sum of the aggregate principal amount of Swingline Loans then outstanding that were to have been repaid with such Revolving Loans.
(c)
          
subsection 2.7(b)
subsection 10(g) 
subsection 2.7(b)
subsection 2.7(b) 
Refunding Date
Swingline Participation Amount
 
Whenever, at any time after the Swingline Lender has received from any Revolving Lender such Revolving Lender's Swingline Participation Amount, the Swingline Lender receives any payment on account of the Swingline Loans, the Swingline Lender will distribute to such Revolving Lender its Swingline Participation Amount (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Revolving Lender's participating interest was outstanding and funded and, in the case of principal and interest payments, to reflect such Revolving Lender's portion of such payment if such payment is not sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on all Swingline Loans then due); , , that in the event that such payment received by the Swingline Lender is required to be returned, such Revolving Lender will return to the Swingline Lender any portion thereof previously distributed to it by the Swingline Lender.
(d)
          
pro
rata
provided
however
 
Each Revolving Lender's obligation to make the Loans referred to in and to purchase participating interests pursuant to shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (i) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right that such Revolving Lender or the Borrower may have against the Swingline Lender, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (ii) the occurrence or continuance of a Default or an Event of Default or the failure to satisfy any of the other conditions specified in ; (iii) any adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower; (iv) any breach of this Agreement or any other Loan Document by the Borrower or any other Revolving Lender; or (v) any other circumstance, happening or event whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing.
(e)
          
subsection 2.7(b) 
subsection 2.7(c) 
Section 7
 
.
2.8
Fees
         
 
. The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Revolving Lender a facility fee for the period from and including the Fee Commencement Date to the Termination Date computed at the Facility Fee Rate on the actual daily amount of the Revolving Credit Commitment of such Revolving Lender (regardless of usage) during the period for which payment is made, payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of each March, June, September and December, subject to the provisions of , and on the
(a)
          
Facility Fee
subsection 3.7
Termination Date or such earlier date on which the Revolving Credit Commitments shall terminate as provided herein, commencing on the first of such dates to occur after the date hereof.
 
. The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent the fees in the amounts and on the dates set forth in the Agency Fee Letter.
(b)
          
Agency Fee Letter
 
. The Borrower shall have the right, upon not less than five Business Days' notice to the Administrative Agent, to terminate the Revolving Credit Commitments or, from time to time, to reduce the amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments; that no such termination or reduction shall be permitted if, after giving effect thereto and to any prepayments of the Loans made on the effective date thereof, either (a) the Aggregate Available Revolving Credit Commitments would not be greater than or equal to zero or (b) the Available Revolving Credit Commitments of any Revolving Lender would not be greater than or equal to zero. Any such reduction shall be in an amount equal to $5,000,000 or a whole multiple thereof and shall reduce permanently the Revolving Credit Commitments then in effect. The Administrative Agent shall give each Revolving Lender prompt notice of any notice received from the Borrower pursuant to this .
2.9
Termination or Reduction of Revolving Credit Commitments
         
provided
subsection 2.9
 
2.10
Repayment of Loans.
       
 
The Term Loan Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Term Lender the principal amount of each Term Loan of such Term Lender on the dates and in the amounts set forth in , except to the extent the Term Loan Borrower has prepaid such Term Loans (or such earlier date on which the Term Loans become due and payable pursuant to ). The Term Loan Borrower hereby further agrees to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of the Term Loans from time to time outstanding from the date hereof until payment in full thereof at the rates per annum, and on the dates, set forth in .
(a)
          
subsection 2.3
Section 10
subsection 3.4
 
The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Revolving Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Credit Loan of such Lender on the Termination Date (or such earlier date on which the Revolving Credit Loans become due and payable pursuant to ). The Borrower hereby further agrees to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of the Revolving Credit Loans from time to time outstanding from the date hereof until payment in full thereof at the rates per annum, and on the dates, set forth in . The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay the then unpaid principal amount of each Swingline Loan on the Termination Date (or such earlier date on which the Swingline Loans become due and payable pursuant to ).
(b)
          
Section 10
subsection 3.4
Section 10
 
. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Borrower may borrow CAF Advances from time to time on any Business Day during the CAF Advance Availability Period. LIBO Rate CAF Advances may be denominated in Dollars or any other available and freely-convertible eurocurrency acceptable to the bidding Lender, and Fixed Rate CAF Advances shall be denominated in Dollars. CAF Advances may be borrowed in amounts such that the amount of Aggregate Total Revolving Outstandings of all Lenders at any time shall not exceed the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments at such time. Within the
2.11
CAF Advances
       
limits and on the conditions hereinafter set forth with respect to CAF Advances, the Borrower from time to time may borrow, repay and request new CAF Advances.
 
2.12
Procedure for CAF Advance Borrowing.
       
 
The Borrower shall request CAF Advances by delivering a CAF Advance Request to the Administrative Agent, not later than 12:00 Noon (New York City time) four Business Days prior to the proposed Borrowing Date (in the case of a LIBO Rate CAF Advance Request), and not later than 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) one Business Day prior to the proposed Borrowing Date (in the case of a Fixed Rate CAF Advance Request). Each CAF Advance Request in respect of any Borrowing Date may solicit bids for CAF Advances on such Borrowing Date in an aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or, in the case of CAF Advances to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars, and amount in such currency the Dollar Equivalent of which is equal to $5,000,000 or $1,000,000, as the case may be) and having not more than three alternative CAF Advance Maturity Dates. The CAF Advance Maturity Date for each CAF Advance shall be the date set forth therefor in the relevant CAF Advance Request, which date shall be (i) not less than 7 days nor more than 360 days after the Borrowing Date therefor, in the case of a Fixed Rate CAF Advance, (ii) not less than 30 days nor more than 360 days after the Borrowing Date therefor, in the case of a LIBO Rate CAF Advance and (iii) not later than the Termination Date, in the case of any CAF Advance. The Administrative Agent shall notify each Revolving Lender promptly by facsimile transmission of the contents of each CAF Advance Request received by the Administrative Agent.
(a)
          
 
In the case of a LIBO Rate CAF Advance Request, upon receipt of notice from the Administrative Agent of the contents of such CAF Advance Request, each Revolving Lender may elect, in its sole discretion, to offer irrevocably to make one or more CAF Advances at the applicable Eurocurrency Rate plus (or minus) a margin determined by such Revolving Lender in its sole discretion for each such CAF Advance. Any such irrevocable offer shall be made by delivering a CAF Advance Offer to the Administrative Agent, before 10:30 A.M. (New York City time) on the day that is three Business Days before the proposed Borrowing Date, setting forth:
(b)
          
 
the maximum amount of CAF Advances for each CAF Advance Maturity Date and the aggregate maximum amount of CAF Advances for all CAF Advance Maturity Dates which such Revolving Lender would be willing to make (which amounts may, subject to , exceed such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment); and
(i)
     
subsection 2.11
 
the margin above or below the applicable Eurocurrency Rate at which such Revolving Lender is willing to make each such CAF Advance.
(ii)
    
 
The Administrative Agent shall advise the Borrower before 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date which is three Business Days before the proposed Borrowing Date of the contents of each such CAF Advance Offer received by it. If the Administrative Agent, in its capacity as a Revolving Lender, shall elect, in its sole discretion, to make any such CAF Advance Offer, it shall advise the Borrower of the contents of its CAF Advance Offer before 10:15 A.M. (New York City time) on the date which is three Business Days before the proposed Borrowing Date.
In the case of a Fixed Rate CAF Advance Request, upon receipt of notice from the Administrative Agent of the contents of such CAF Advance Request, each Revolving Lender may elect, in its sole discretion, to offer irrevocably to make one or more CAF Advances at a rate of interest determined by such Revolving Lender in its sole discretion for each such CAF Advance. Any such irrevocable offer shall be made by delivering a CAF Advance Offer to the Administrative Agent before 9:30 A.M. (New York City time) on the Borrowing Date, setting forth:
(c)
          
 
the maximum amount of CAF Advances for each CAF Advance Maturity Date, and the aggregate maximum amount for all CAF Advance Maturity Dates, which such Lender would be willing to make (which amounts may, subject to , exceed such Revolving Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment); and
(i)
     
subsection 2.11
 
the rate of interest at which such Revolving Lender is willing to make each such CAF Advance.
(ii)
    
 
The Administrative Agent shall advise the Borrower before 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the proposed Borrowing Date of the contents of each such CAF Advance Offer received by it. If the Administrative Agent, in its capacity as a Revolving Lender, shall elect, in its sole discretion, to make any such CAF Advance Offer, it shall advise the Borrower of the contents of its CAF Advance Offer before 9:15 A.M. (New York City time) on the proposed Borrowing Date.
 
Before 11:30 A.M. (New York City time) three Business Days before the proposed Borrowing Date (in the case of CAF Advances requested by a LIBO Rate CAF Advance Request) and before 10:30 A.M. (New York City time) on the proposed Borrowing Date (in the case of CAF Advances requested by a Fixed Rate CAF Advance Request), the Borrower, in its absolute discretion, shall:
(d)
          
 
cancel such CAF Advance Request by giving the Administrative Agent telephone notice to that effect, or
(i)
     
 
by giving telephone notice to the Administrative Agent (immediately confirmed by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a CAF Advance Confirmation by facsimile transmission) (A) subject to the provisions of , accept one or more of the offers made by any Revolving Lender or Revolving Lenders pursuant to or , as the case may be, and (B) reject any remaining offers made by Revolving Lenders pursuant to or , as the case may be.
(ii)
    
subsection 2.12(e)
subsection 2.12(b) 
subsection 2.12(c)
subsection 2.12(b) 
subsection 2.12(c)
 
The Borrower's acceptance of CAF Advances in response to any CAF Advance Offers shall be subject to the following limitations:
(e)
          
 
the amount of CAF Advances accepted for each CAF Advance Maturity Date specified by any Revolving Lender in its CAF Advance Offer shall not exceed the maximum amount for such CAF Advance Maturity Date specified in such CAF Advance Offer;
(i)
     
the aggregate amount of CAF Advances accepted for all CAF Advance Maturity Dates specified by any Revolving Lender in its CAF Advance Offer shall not exceed the aggregate maximum amount specified in such CAF Advance Offer for all such CAF Advance Maturity Dates;
(ii)
    
 
the Borrower may not accept offers for CAF Advances for any CAF Advance Maturity Date in an aggregate principal amount in excess of the maximum principal amount requested in the related CAF Advance Request; and
(iii)
   
 
if the Borrower accepts any of such offers, it must accept offers based solely upon pricing for each relevant CAF Advance Maturity Date and upon no other criteria whatsoever, and if two or more Revolving Lenders submit offers for any CAF Advance Maturity Date at identical pricing and the Borrower accepts any of such offers but does not wish to (or, by reason of the limitations set forth in , cannot) borrow the total amount offered by such Revolving Lenders with such identical pricing, the Borrower shall accept offers from all of such Revolving Lenders in amounts allocated among them according to the amounts offered by such Lenders (with appropriate rounding, in the sole discretion of the Borrower, to assure that each accepted CAF Advance is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 or, in the case of CAF Advances to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars, an amount in such currency the Dollar Equivalent of which is approximately equal to $1,000,000); that if the number of Revolving Lenders that submit offers for any CAF Advance Maturity Date at identical pricing is such that, after the Borrower accepts such offers in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, the CAF Advance to be made by any such Revolving Lender would be less than $5,000,000 (or, in the case of CAF Advances to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars, an amount in such currency the Dollar Equivalent of which is approximately equal to $5,000,000) principal amount, the number of such Revolving Lenders shall be reduced by the Administrative Agent by lot until the CAF Advances to be made by each such remaining Revolving Lender would be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or, in the case of CAF Advances to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars, an amount in such currency the Dollar Equivalent of which is approximately equal to $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof).
(iv)
   
subsection 2.11
pro rata
provided
pro rata
 
If the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that a CAF Advance Request is cancelled pursuant to , the Administrative Agent shall give prompt telephone notice thereof to the Revolving Lenders.
(f)
           
subsection 2.12(d)(i)
 
If the Borrower accepts pursuant to one or more of the offers made by any Revolving Lender or Revolving Lenders, the Administrative Agent promptly shall notify each Revolving Lender which has made such an offer of (i) the aggregate amount of such CAF Advances to be made on such Borrowing Date for each CAF Advance Maturity Date and (ii) the acceptance or rejection of any offers to make such CAF Advances made by such Revolving Lender. Before 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the Borrowing Date specified in the applicable CAF Advance Request (in the case of CAF Advances denominated in Dollars) and before the funding time for the relevant currency from time to time specified by the Administrative
(g)
          
subsection 2.12(d)(ii) 
Agent by notice to the Revolving Lenders (in the case of CAF Advances denominated in any currency other than Dollars), each Revolving Lender whose CAF Advance Offer has been accepted shall make available to the Administrative Agent the amount of CAF Advances to be made by such Revolving Lender, in immediately available funds, at the funding office for the relevant currency specified from time to time by the Administrative Agent by notice to the Revolving Lenders. The Administrative Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower as soon as practicable on such date at such office of the Administrative Agent. As soon as practicable after each Borrowing Date, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Revolving Lender of the aggregate amount of CAF Advances advanced on such Borrowing Date and the respective CAF Advance Maturity Dates thereof.
 
. The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Revolving Lender which has made a CAF Advance, on the applicable CAF Advance Maturity Date the then unpaid principal amount of such CAF Advance. The Borrower shall have the right to prepay any principal amount of any CAF Advance only with the consent of the Revolving Lender to which such CAF Advance is owed. The Borrower hereby further agrees to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each CAF Advance from the Borrowing Date to the applicable CAF Advance Maturity Date at the rate of interest specified in the CAF Advance Offer accepted by the Borrower in connection with such CAF Advance (calculated on the basis of a 360-day year for actual days elapsed), payable on each applicable CAF Advance Interest Payment Date.
2.13
Repayment of CAF Advances
       
 
. A CAF Advance Request may request offers for CAF Advances to be made on not more than one Borrowing Date and to mature on not more than three CAF Advance Maturity Dates. No CAF Advance Request may be submitted earlier than five Business Days after submission of any other CAF Advance Request.
2.14
Certain Restrictions with Respect to CAF Advances
       
 
. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Multicurrency Lender severally agrees to make revolving credit loans (each, a "") in any Available Foreign Currency to the Borrower from time to time during the Commitment Period so long as after giving effect thereto (a) the Available Multicurrency Commitment of each Multicurrency Lender is greater than or equal to zero, (b) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Multicurrency Loans, (i) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Local Currency Loans and (ii) the aggregate outstanding amount of L/C Obligations attributable to Letters of Credit denominated in any currency other than Dollars, does not exceed an amount the Dollar Equivalent of which is $800,000,000 and (c) the Aggregate Total Revolving Outstandings of all Lenders do not exceed the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments. During the Commitment Period, the Borrower may use the Multicurrency Commitments by borrowing, repaying the Multicurrency Loans in whole or in part, and reborrowing, all in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof. Any Multicurrency Lender may cause its Multicurrency Loans to be made by any branch, affiliate or international banking facility of such Multicurrency Lender, , that such Multicurrency Lender shall remain responsible for all of its obligations hereunder and no additional taxes, costs or other burdens shall be imposed upon the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as a result thereof.
2.15
Multicurrency Commitments
       
Multicurrency Loan
plus
provided
. The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Multicurrency Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Multicurrency Loan of such Multicurrency Lender on the Termination Date and on such other date(s) and in such other amounts as may be required from time to time pursuant to this Agreement. The Borrower hereby further agrees to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of the Multicurrency Loans advanced to it and from time to time outstanding until payment thereof in full at the rates per annum, and on the dates, set forth in .
2.16
Repayment of Multicurrency Loans
       
subsection 3.4
 
. The Borrower may request the Multicurrency Lenders to make Multicurrency Loans during the Commitment Period on any Business Day by delivering a Notice of Multicurrency Loan Borrowing. Each borrowing under the Multicurrency Commitments shall be in an amount in an Available Foreign Currency the Dollar Equivalent of which is equal to at least $1,000,000 (or, if the then Aggregate Available Multicurrency Commitments are less than $1,000,000, such lesser amount). Upon receipt of any such Notice of Multicurrency Borrowing from the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Multicurrency Lender thereof. Not later than the funding time for the relevant Available Foreign Currency specified from time to time by the Administrative Agent by notice to the Borrower and the Multicurrency Lenders each Multicurrency Lender shall make an amount equal to its Multicurrency Commitment Percentage of the principal amount of Multicurrency Loans requested to be made on such Borrowing Date available to the Administrative Agent at the appropriate funding office for the relevant Available Foreign Currency specified from time to time by the Administrative Agent by notice to the Borrower and the Multicurrency Lenders in the relevant Available Foreign Currency and in immediately available funds; that, unless and until the Administrative Agent shall otherwise direct, any Multicurrency Lender may provide funds in the then applicable Dollar Equivalent (including an exchange fee and other normal and customary fees for providing this service as determined by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion) thereof in lieu of the requested currency, so long as the Multicurrency Lender has given reasonable notice to the Administrative Agent of its desire and intent to so provide funds therefor promptly after (but in any event within one hour of) its receipt of any such notice for a Multicurrency Loan. The amounts made available by each Multicurrency Lender will then be made available to the Borrower at such funding office and in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent; , in the case of Multicurrency Loans for which any Lender has provided funds in Dollars, the Administrative Agent shall provide such funds to the applicable Borrower in the requested currency.
2.17
Procedure for Multicurrency Borrowing
       
provided
provided
 
. The Borrower shall have the right, upon not less than three Business Days' notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall give prompt notice thereof to each Multicurrency Lender), to terminate the Multicurrency Commitments or, from time to time, to reduce the amount of the Multicurrency Commitments; that no such termination or reduction shall be permitted if, after giving effect thereto and to any prepayments of the Loans made on the effective date thereof, the Available Multicurrency Commitment of any Multicurrency Lender would be less than zero. Any such reduction shall be in an amount equal to U.S. $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of U.S. $100,000 in excess thereof and shall reduce permanently the Multicurrency Commitments then in effect.
2.18
Termination or Reduction of Multicurrency Commitments
       
provided
2.19
Borrowings of Revolving Credit Loans and Refunding of Loans.
       
 
If on any Borrowing Date on which the Borrower has requested the Multicurrency Lenders to make Multicurrency Loans (the ""),
(a)
          
Requested Multicurrency Loans
 
the aggregate principal amount of the Requested Multicurrency Loans exceeds the Aggregate Available Multicurrency Commitments on such Borrowing Date (before giving effect to the making and payment of any Loans required to be made pursuant to this on such Borrowing Date) and,
(i)
     
subsection 2.19
 
the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of such excess is less than or equal to the aggregate Available Revolving Credit Commitments of all Non-Multicurrency Lenders (before giving effect to the making and payment of any Loans pursuant to this on such Borrowing Date),
(ii)
    
subsection 2.19
 
each Non-Multicurrency Lender shall make a Revolving Credit Loan to the Borrower on such Borrowing Date, and the proceeds of such Revolving Credit Loans shall be simultaneously applied to repay outstanding Revolving Credit Loans, Local Currency Loans and/or Multicurrency Loans of the Multicurrency Lenders (as directed by the Borrower) in each case in amounts such that, after giving effect to (1) such borrowings and repayments and (2) the borrowing from the Multicurrency Lenders of the Requested Multicurrency Loans, the Committed Outstanding Percentage of each Lender will equal (as nearly as possible) its Revolving Credit Commitment Percentage. To effect such borrowings and repayments, (x) not later than 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on such Borrowing Date, the proceeds of such Revolving Credit Loans shall be made available by each Non-Multicurrency Lender to the Administrative Agent at its office specified in in Dollars and in immediately available funds and the Administrative Agent shall apply the proceeds of such Revolving Credit Loans toward repayment of outstanding Revolving Credit Loans and/or Local Currency Loans of the Multicurrency Lenders (as directed by the Borrower) and (y) concurrently with the repayment of such Loans on such Borrowing Date, (I) the Multicurrency Lenders shall, in accordance with the applicable provisions hereof, make the Requested Multicurrency Loans in an aggregate amount equal to the amount so requested by the Borrower (but not in any event greater than the Aggregate Available Multicurrency Commitments after giving effect to the making of such repayment of any Loans on such Borrowing Date) and (II) the Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders whose Loans to the Borrower are repaid on such Borrowing Date pursuant to this all interest accrued on the amounts repaid to the date of repayment, together with any amounts payable pursuant to in connection with such repayment.
subsection 13.2
subsection 2.19
subsection 3.11
 
Subject to the limitations on borrowings contained in a given Local Currency Facility, if on any Borrowing Date on which a Foreign Subsidiary Borrower has requested Local Currency Lenders to make Local Currency Loans (the "") under a Local Currency Facility to which such Foreign Subsidiary Borrower and Local Currency Lenders are parties, (i) the aggregate principal amount of the Requested Local Currency Loans (A) exceeds the aggregate available amount of the commitments of such Local Currency Lenders under such Local Currency Facility on such Borrowing Date (before giving effect to the making and payment of any Revolving Credit Loans required to be made pursuant to this on such Borrowing Date) or (B) together with the aggregate then outstanding principal amount of
(b)
          
Requested Local Currency Loans
subsection 2.19
Multicurrency Loans and the aggregate outstanding amount of L/C Obligations attributable to Letters of Credit denominated in any currency other than Dollars, would exceed an amount of which the Dollar Equivalent is $800,000,000, (ii) after giving effect to the Requested Local Currency Loans, the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Local Currency Loans of such Foreign Subsidiary Borrower will be less than or equal to the aggregate commitments of such Local Currency Lenders under such Local Currency Facility and (iii) the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of the excess described in clause (i) above is less than or equal to the Aggregate Available Revolving Credit Commitments of all Revolving Lenders other than such Local Currency Lenders (before giving effect to the making and payment of any Revolving Credit Loans pursuant to this on such Borrowing Date), each such other Revolving Lender shall make a Revolving Credit Loan to the Borrower, on such Borrowing Date, and the proceeds of such Revolving Credit Loans shall be simultaneously applied to repay outstanding Revolving Credit Loans, Multicurrency Loans and/or Local Currency Loans of such Local Currency Lenders (as directed by the Borrower) in each case in amounts such that, after giving effect to (1) such borrowings and repayments and (2) the borrowing from such Local Currency Lenders of the Requested Local Currency Loans, the Committed Outstandings Percentage of each Lender will equal (as nearly as possible) its Revolving Credit Commitment Percentage and the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Multicurrency Loans and Local Currency Loans will not exceed $800,000,000. To effect such borrowings and repayments, (x) not later than 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on such Borrowing Date, the proceeds of such Revolving Credit Loans shall be made available by each such other Revolving Lender to the Administrative Agent at its office specified in in Dollars and in immediately available funds and the Administrative Agent shall apply the proceeds of such Revolving Credit Loans toward the repayment of outstanding Revolving Credit Loans, Multicurrency Loans and/or Local Currency Loans of such Local Currency Lenders (as directed by the Borrower) and (y) concurrently with the repayment of such Revolving Credit Loans on such Borrowing Date, (I) such Local Currency Lenders shall, in accordance with the applicable provisions hereof, make the Requested Local Currency Loans in an aggregate amount equal to the amount so requested by such Foreign Subsidiary Borrower and (II) the relevant Foreign Subsidiary Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Revolving Lenders whose Loans to such Borrower are repaid on such Borrowing Date pursuant to this all interest accrued on the amounts repaid to the date of repayment, together with any amounts payable pursuant to in connection with such repayment.
subsection 2.19
subsection 13.2
subsection 2.19
subsection 3.11
 
If any borrowing of Revolving Credit Loans is required pursuant to this , the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent in the manner provided for Revolving Credit Loans in , except that the minimum borrowing amounts set forth in shall not be applicable to the extent that such minimum borrowing amounts exceed the amounts of Revolving Credit Loans required to be made pursuant to this .
(c)
          
subsection 2.19
subsection 2.5
subsection 2.5
subsection 2.19
 
. The Borrower shall have the right to increase the Revolving Credit Commitments from time to time in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $500,000,000 upon prior notice to the Administrative Agent and pursuant to procedures established by the Administrative Agent and acceptable to the Borrower. Each such increase (each, an "") shall be in a principal amount of at least $25,000,000, and no such increase shall become effective if a Default or Event
2.20
Increase of Revolving Credit Commitments
       
Additional Revolving Credit Commitment
of Default then exists or would exist immediately after giving effect thereto. Each bank or other financial institution (other than an existing Lender or Lender Affiliate providing any Additional Revolving Credit Commitments) shall be reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower and shall be a "Lender" for all purposes under this Agreement. No Lender shall have any obligation to provide any such Additional Revolving Credit Commitments unless and until it shall expressly agree under the applicable procedures to do so, at which time such Lender shall be deemed to have made an Additional Revolving Credit Commitment. The Lenders agree that this Agreement and the other Loan Documents may be amended from time to time with the consent of the Administrative Agent and the Borrower to reflect such Additional Revolving Credit Commitments in connection with this .
Section 2.20
 
SECTION 3 CERTAIN PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE LOANS
 
3.1
Optional and Mandatory Prepayments.
         
 
The Borrowers may at any time and from time to time prepay the Loans, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty (other than any amounts payable pursuant to if such prepayment is of Eurodollar Loans and is made on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period with respect thereto), upon at least four Business Days' irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, specifying the date and amount of prepayment and whether the prepayment is of Eurodollar Loans, ABR Loans or a combination thereof, and, if of a combination thereof, the amount allocable to each. Upon receipt of any such notice the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof. If any such notice is given, the amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Partial prepayments of Loans shall be in an aggregate principal amount of at least $1,000,000 or an integral multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof.
(a)
          
subsection 3.11
 
The Borrower may at any time and from time to time prepay, without premium or penalty (other than any amounts payable pursuant to if such prepayment is of Multicurrency Loans and is made on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period with respect thereto), the Multicurrency Loans, in whole or in part, upon at least three Business Days' irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent specifying the date and amount of prepayment. Upon the receipt of any such notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Multicurrency Lender thereof. If any such notice is given, the amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Partial prepayments of Multicurrency Loans shall be in an aggregate principal amount the Dollar Equivalent of which is at least $1,000,000 or an integral multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof.
(b)
          
subsection 3.11
 
If at any time during the Commitment Period, for any reason the Aggregate Total Revolving Outstandings of all Lenders exceed the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments then in effect, the Borrower shall, without notice or demand, immediately prepay the Revolving Credit Loans and/or the Multicurrency Loans in amounts such that the sum of (A) the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Credit Loans so prepaid and (B) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate principal amount of the Multicurrency Loans so prepaid, equals or exceeds the amount of such excess.
(c)
          
If, at any time during the Commitment Period, for any reason either (1) the Aggregate Total Revolving Outstandings of all Multicurrency Lenders exceed the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments of the Multicurrency Lenders, (2) the Aggregate Multicurrency Outstandings exceed the aggregate Multicurrency Commitments, (3) the sum of the Aggregate Multicurrency Outstandings the Dollar Equivalent of (x) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Local Currency Loans and (y) the aggregate outstanding amount of L/C Obligations attributable to Letters of Credit denominated in currencies other than Dollars, exceeds the aggregate Multicurrency Commitments or (4) the Dollar Equivalent of all L/C Obligations attributable to Letters of Credit denominated in currencies other than Dollars exceeds, in the aggregate, $800,000,000, the Borrower shall, without notice or demand, immediately prepay the Revolving Credit Loans and/or the Multicurrency Loans and/or Local Currency Loans and/or cash collateralize the L/C Obligations in amounts such that any such excess is eliminated.
(i)
     
plus
 
Each prepayment of Loans pursuant to this shall be accompanied by any amounts payable under 1 in connection with such prepayment.
(ii)
    
subsection 3.1(c) 
subsection 3.1
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, mandatory prepayments of Revolving Credit Loans or Multicurrency Loans that would otherwise be required pursuant to this solely as a result of fluctuations in Exchange Rates from time to time shall only be required to be made pursuant to this on the last Business Day of each month on the basis of the Exchange Rate in effect on such Business Day.
(iii)
   
subsection 3.1(c) 
subsection 3.1(c) 
 
3.2
Conversion and Continuation Options.
         
 
Each of the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower may elect from time to time to convert Eurodollar Loans to ABR Loans by giving the Administrative Agent at least two Business Days' prior irrevocable notice of such election. Each of the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower may elect from time to time to convert ABR Loans to Eurodollar Loans by giving the Administrative Agent at least three Business Days' prior irrevocable notice of such election. Any such notice of conversion to Eurodollar Loans shall specify the length of the initial Interest Period therefor. Upon receipt of any such notice the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof. All or any part of outstanding Eurodollar Loans and ABR Loans may be converted as provided herein, that (i) no Loan may be converted into a Eurodollar Loan when any Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent has or the Majority Lenders have determined that such a conversion is not appropriate and (ii) no Loan may be converted into a Eurodollar Loan after the date that is one month prior to the Termination Date. No Multicurrency Loan or CAF Advance may be converted into or continued as a Loan denominated in a different currency, but instead must be prepaid in the original currency of such Loan and reborrowed in the other currency.
(a)
          
provided
 
Any Eurodollar Loans may be continued as such upon the expiration of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto by the Borrower (in the case of Revolving Credit Loans) or the Term Loan Borrower (in the case of Term Loans) giving notice to the Administrative Agent, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the term "Interest Period" set forth in , of the length of the next Interest Period to be applicable to such Loans, that no Eurodollar Loan may be continued as such (i) when any Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent has or the Majority Lenders have determined that
(b)
          
subsection 1.1
provided
such a continuation is not appropriate or (ii) after the date that is one month prior to the Termination Date, and , , that if the Borrower or the Term Loan Borrower, as applicable, shall fail to give such notice or if such continuation is not permitted, such Loans shall be automatically converted to ABR Loans on the last day of such then expiring Interest Period.
provided
further
 
Any Multicurrency Loans may be continued as such upon the expiration of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto by the Borrower giving a Notice of Multicurrency Loan Continuation, , that if the Borrower shall fail to give such Notice of Multicurrency Loan Continuation by the deadline specified therefor in , such Multicurrency Loans shall automatically be continued for an Interest Period of one month.
(c)
          
provided
Schedule II
 
. All borrowings, conversions and continuations of Revolving Credit Loans, Term Loans and Multicurrency Loans hereunder and all selections of Interest Periods hereunder shall be in such amounts and be made pursuant to such elections so that, after giving effect thereto, (i) the aggregate principal amount of the Eurodollar Loans comprising each Eurodollar Tranche shall be equal to $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of the Multicurrency Loans comprising each Multicurrency Tranche shall be in an amount the Dollar Equivalent of which is at least $5,000,000. In no event shall there be more than seven Tranches outstanding at any time.
3.3
Minimum Amounts and Maximum Number of Tranches
         
 
3.4
Interest Rates and Payment Dates.
         
 
Each Eurodollar Loan shall bear interest for each day during each Interest Period with respect thereto at a rate per annum equal to the Eurocurrency Rate determined for such Interest Period the Applicable Margin in effect for such day.
(a)
          
plus
 
Each ABR Loan shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the ABR the Applicable Margin.
(b)
          
plus
 
Each Multicurrency Loan shall bear interest for each day that it is outstanding at a rate per annum equal to the Eurocurrency Rate the Applicable Margin in effect for such day.
(c)
          
plus
 
Each CAF Advance shall bear interest at the rate determined in accordance with .
(d)
          
subsection 2.12
 
If all or a portion of (i) any principal of any Loan, (ii) any interest payable thereon, (iii) any facility fee or (iv) any other amount payable hereunder shall not be paid when due (whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise), the principal of the Loans and/or any such overdue interest, commitment fee or other amount shall bear interest at a rate per annum which is (x) in the case of principal, the rate that would otherwise be applicable thereto pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this subsection  2% or (y) in the case of any such overdue interest, facility fee or other amount, the rate described in paragraph (b) of this subsection  2%, in each case from the date of such non-payment until such overdue principal, interest, facility fee or other amount is paid in full (as well after as before judgment).
(e)
          
plus
plus
Interest pursuant to this subsection shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date or CAF Advance Interest Payment Date, as the case may be, that interest accruing pursuant to paragraph (e) of this subsection shall be payable from time to time on demand.
(f)
           
provided
 
3.5
Computation of Interest and Fees.
         
 
All interest and fees hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that (i) interest computed by reference to the ABR at times when the ABR is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year) and (ii) interest computed with respect to Loans denominated in English Pounds Sterling shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable ABR or Eurocurrency Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Administrative Agent shall as soon as practicable notify the Borrowers and the Lenders of each determination of a Eurocurrency Rate. Any change in the interest rate on a Loan resulting from a change in the ABR or the Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements shall become effective as of the opening of business on the day on which such change becomes effective. The Administrative Agent shall as soon as practicable notify the Borrowers and the relevant Lenders of the effective date and the amount of each such change in interest rate.
(a)
          
 
Each determination of an interest rate by the Administrative Agent pursuant to any provision of this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on the Borrowers and the Lenders in the absence of manifest error. The Administrative Agent shall, at the request of either of the Borrowers, deliver to the Borrower or the Term Loan Borrower, as applicable, a statement showing the quotations used by the Administrative Agent in determining any interest rate pursuant to , or .
(b)
          
subsections 3.4(a)
(b) 
(d)
 
If any Reference Lender shall for any reason no longer have a Commitment or any Loans, such Reference Lender shall thereupon cease to be a Reference Lender, and if, as a result, there shall only be one Reference Lender remaining, the Administrative Agent (after consultation with the Lenders and with the consent of the Borrower (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld)) shall, by notice to the Borrower and the Lenders, designate another Lender as a Reference Lender so that there shall at all times be at least two Reference Lenders.
(c)
          
 
Each Reference Lender shall use its best efforts to furnish quotations of rates to the Administrative Agent as contemplated hereby. If any of the Reference Lenders shall be unable or shall otherwise fail to supply such rates to the Administrative Agent upon its request, the rate of interest shall, subject to the provisions of , be determined on the basis of the quotations of the remaining Reference Lenders or Reference Lender.
(d)
          
subsection 3.6
 
. If prior to the first day of any Interest Period:
3.6
Inability to Determine Interest Rate
         
 
the Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive and binding upon the Borrowers) that, by reason of circumstances
(a)
          
affecting the relevant market, adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period, or
 
the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Majority Lenders or the Majority Multicurrency Lenders, as the case may be, that the Eurocurrency Rate determined or to be determined for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (as conclusively certified by such Lenders) of making or maintaining their affected Loans during such Interest Period,
(b)
          
 
the Administrative Agent shall give telecopy or telephonic notice thereof to the Borrowers and the Lenders as soon as practicable thereafter. If such notice is given (w) any Eurodollar Loans or Multicurrency Loans, as the case may be, requested to be made on the first day of such Interest Period shall be made as ABR Loans, , that, notwithstanding the provisions of or , the Borrowers may cancel the request for such Eurodollar Loan or Multicurrency Loan, as the case may be, by written notice to the Administrative Agent one Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period and the Borrowers shall not be subject to any liability pursuant to with respect to such cancelled request, (x) any Loans that were to have been converted on the first day of such Interest Period to Eurodollar Loans shall be continued as ABR Loans, (y) any outstanding Eurodollar Loans shall be converted, on the first day of such Interest Period, to ABR Loans and (z) any Multicurrency Loans to which such Interest Period relates shall be repaid on the first day of such Interest Period. Until such notice has been withdrawn by the Administrative Agent, no further Eurodollar Loans or Multicurrency Loans shall be made or continued as such, nor shall the Borrowers have the right to convert ABR Loans to Eurodollar Loans.
provided
subsection 2.5
2.17
subsection 3.11
 
3.7
Pro Rata Treatment and Payments.
         
 
Each payment (including each prepayment) by the Term Loan Borrower on account of principal of and interest on the Term Loans shall be made according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Term Loans then held by the Term Lenders. The amount of each principal prepayment of the Term Loans shall be applied to reduce the then remaining installments of the Term Loans, based upon the respective then remaining principal amounts thereof. Amounts prepaid on account of the Term Loans may not be reborrowed. Each payment of principal and interest in respect of any optional prepayment of Revolving Credit Loans or Multicurrency Loans shall be made according to the amounts then due and owing to the respective Revolving Lender or Multicurrency Lender, as the case may be.
(a)
          
pro
rata
pro
rata
pro
rata
 
Except as provided in , each borrowing by the Borrower of Revolving Credit Loans from the Revolving Lenders hereunder shall be made according to the Funding Commitment Percentages of the Revolving Lenders in effect on the date of such borrowing. Each payment by the Borrower on account of any facility fee hereunder and any reduction of the Revolving Credit Commitments of the Revolving Lenders shall be allocated by the Administrative Agent among the Revolving Lenders according to the Revolving Credit Commitment Percentages of the Lenders. Except as provided in , each payment (including each prepayment) by the Borrower on account of principal on the Revolving Credit Loans shall be made according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Revolving Credit Loans then due and owing to the Revolving Lenders. Each payment by the
(b)
          
subsection 2.19
pro
rata
pro
rata
subsection 2.19
pro
rata
Borrower of interest in respect of the Revolving Credit Loans shall be applied to the amounts of such obligations owing to the Revolving Lenders according to the respective amounts then due and owing to the Revolving Lenders. All payments (including prepayments) to be made by the Borrower hereunder in respect of amounts denominated in Dollars, whether on account of principal, interest, fees or otherwise, shall be made without set off or counterclaim and shall be made prior to 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on the due date thereof to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the relevant Lenders, at the Administrative Agent's office specified in , in Dollars and in immediately available funds. The Administrative Agent shall distribute such payments to the relevant Lenders promptly upon receipt in like funds as received. If any payment hereunder (other than payments on the Eurodollar Loans or Multicurrency Loans) becomes due and payable on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, with respect to payments of principal, interest thereon shall be payable at the then applicable rate during such extension. If any payment on a Eurodollar Loan or a Multicurrency Loan becomes due and payable on a day other than a Business Day, the maturity of such payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day (and, with respect to payments of principal, interest thereon shall be payable at the then applicable rate during such extension) unless the result of such extension would be to extend such payment into another calendar month, in which event such payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day.
pro
rata
subsection 13.2
 
Each borrowing of Multicurrency Loans by the Borrower shall be made, and any reduction of the Multicurrency Commitments shall be allocated by the Administrative Agent, according to the Multicurrency Commitment Percentages of the Multicurrency Lenders. Each payment (including each prepayment) by the Borrower on account of principal on Multicurrency Loans shall be allocated by the Administrative Agent according to the respective principal amounts of the Multicurrency Loans then due and owing by the Borrower to each Multicurrency Lender. Each payment by the Borrower of interest in respect of the Multicurrency Loans shall be allocated by the Administrative Agent to the amounts of such obligations owing to the Multicurrency Lenders according to the respective amounts then due and owing to the Multicurrency Lenders. All payments (including prepayments) to be made by the Borrower on account of Multicurrency Loans hereunder, whether on account of principal, interest, fees or otherwise, shall be made without set-off or counterclaim and shall be made at or before the payment time for the currency of such Multicurrency Loan from time to time specified by the Administrative Agent by notice to the Multicurrency Lenders and the Borrower, on the due date thereof to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Multicurrency Lenders, at the payment office for the currency of such Multicurrency Loan from time to time specified by the Administrative Agent by notice to the Multicurrency Lenders and the Borrower, in the currency of such Multicurrency Loan and in immediately available funds. The Administrative Agent shall distribute such payments to the Multicurrency Lenders entitled to receive the same promptly upon receipt in like funds as received; that the Administrative Agent will provide funds in the then applicable Dollar Equivalent thereof (including an exchange fee and other normal and customary fees for providing this service as determined by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion) to those Multicurrency Lenders that had funded the Revolving Credit Loans with the Dollar Equivalent as provided in .
(c)
          
pro
rata
pro rata
pro
rata
provided
subsection 2.17
Unless the Administrative Agent shall have been notified in writing by any Lender prior to a borrowing that such Lender will not make the amount that would constitute its share of such borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender is making such amount available to the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. If such amount is not made available to the Administrative Agent by the required time on the Borrowing Date therefor, such Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent, on demand, such amount with interest thereon at a rate equal to (i) the daily average Federal Funds Effective Rate (in the case of a borrowing of Term Loans, Revolving Credit Loans or CAF Advances denominated in Dollars) and (ii) the Administrative Agent's reasonable estimate of its average daily cost of funds (in the case of a borrowing of Multicurrency Loans or CAF Advances denominated in a currency other than Dollars), in each case for the period until such Lender makes such amount immediately available to the Administrative Agent. A certificate of the Administrative Agent submitted to any Lender with respect to any amounts owing under this subsection shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. If such Lender's share of such borrowing is not made available to the Administrative Agent by such Lender within three Business Days of such Borrowing Date, the Administrative Agent shall also be entitled to recover such amount with interest thereon equal to (i) the rate per annum applicable to ABR Loans hereunder (in the case of a borrowing of Term Loans, Revolving Credit Loans or CAF Advances or CAF Advances denominated in Dollars) and (ii) the Administrative Agent's reasonable estimate of its average daily cost of funds the Applicable Margin applicable to Multicurrency Loans (in the case of a borrowing of Multicurrency Loans or CAF Advances denominated in a currency other than Dollars), on demand, from the Borrower.
(d)
          
plus
 
. Notwithstanding any other provision herein, if after the date hereof the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law or in the interpretation or application thereof shall make it unlawful for any Lender to make or maintain Eurodollar Loans or Multicurrency Loans as contemplated by this Agreement, (a) the commitment of such Lender hereunder to make Eurodollar Loans or Multicurrency Loans, continue Eurodollar Loans or Multicurrency Loans as such and convert ABR Loans to Eurodollar Loans shall forthwith be cancelled, (b) such Lender's Loans then outstanding as Eurodollar Loans, if any, shall be converted automatically to ABR Loans on the respective last days of the then current Interest Periods with respect to such Loans or within such earlier period as required by law and (c) such Lender's Multicurrency Loans shall be prepaid on the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto. If any such conversion of a Eurodollar Loan occurs on a day which is not the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto, the Term Loan Borrower (in respect of conversions of Term Loans) or the Borrower (in respect of conversions all other Types of Loans) shall pay to such Lender such amounts, if any, as may be required pursuant to .
3.8
Illegality
         
subsection 3.11
 
3.9
Requirements of Law.
         
 
If the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law or in the interpretation or application thereof or compliance by any Lender with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any central bank or other Governmental Authority made subsequent to the date hereof (or, in the case of LIBO Rate CAF Advances, made subsequent to acceptance by the Borrower of such LIBO Rate CAF Advance):
(a)
          
shall subject any Lender to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Note, any Letter of Credit, any Application, any Eurodollar Loan, Multicurrency Loan or LIBO Rate CAF Advance made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender in respect thereof (except for Non-Excluded Taxes indemnified under and the imposition of, or change in the rate of, any tax other than a Non-Excluded Tax payable by such Lender);
(i)
     
subsection 3.10
 
shall impose, modify or hold applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan or similar requirement against assets held by, deposits or other liabilities in or for the account of, advances, loans or other extensions of credit by, or any other acquisition of funds by, any office of such Lender which is not otherwise included in the determination of the Eurocurrency Rate; or
(ii)
    
 
shall impose on such Lender any other condition;
(iii)
   
 
and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Lender, by an amount which such Lender deems to be material, of making, converting into, continuing or maintaining Eurodollar Loans, Multicurrency Loans, LIBO Rate CAF Advances or issuing or participating in Letters of Credit or to reduce any amount receivable hereunder in respect thereof, then, in any such case, the Borrower shall promptly pay such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such increased cost or reduced amount receivable; , that the Borrower shall not be required to pay to any Lender any amounts under this paragraph for any period prior to the date on which such Lender gives notice to the Borrower that such amounts are payable unless such Lender gives such notice within 180 days after it became aware or should have become aware of the event giving rise to such payment obligation.
provided
 
If any Lender shall have determined that after the date hereof the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law regarding capital adequacy or in the interpretation or application thereof or compliance by such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender with any request or directive regarding capital adequacy (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority made subsequent to the date hereof shall have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or such corporation's capital as a consequence of its obligations hereunder or under any Letter of Credit to a level below that which such Lender or such corporation could have achieved but for such adoption, change or compliance (taking into consideration such Lender's or such corporation's policies with respect to capital adequacy) by an amount deemed by such Lender to be material, then from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such reduction; , that the Borrower shall not be required to pay to any Lender any amounts under this paragraph for any period prior to the date on which such Lender gives notice to the Borrower that such amounts are payable unless such Lender gives such notice within 180 days after it became aware or should have become aware of the event giving rise to such payment obligation.
(b)
          
provided
 
If any Lender becomes entitled to claim any additional amounts pursuant to this subsection, it shall promptly notify the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of the event by reason of which it has become so entitled. A certificate as to any additional amounts payable pursuant to this subsection submitted by such Lender to the Borrower (with a
(c)
          
copy to the Administrative Agent) shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. The agreements in this subsection shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
 
3.10
Taxes.
       
 
All payments made by the Borrowers under any Loan Document shall be made free and clear of, and without deduction or withholding for or on account of, any present or future income, stamp or other taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions or withholdings, now or hereafter imposed, levied, collected, withheld or assessed by any Governmental Authority, excluding (i) all net income taxes, franchise taxes or other taxes (in each case, imposed in lieu of net income taxes (but in no case shall any tax imposed by way of withholding or deduction be considered imposed in lieu of net income taxes)) and branch profits taxes, in each case imposed on the Administrative Agent or any Lender as a result of a present or former connection between the Administrative Agent or such Lender and the jurisdiction of the Governmental Authority imposing such tax or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein (other than any such connection arising solely from the Administrative Agent or such Lender having executed, delivered or performed its obligations or received a payment under, or enforced, any Loan Document), (ii) in the case of a Lender other than an assignee pursuant to a request by a Borrower under , with respect to any Revolving Credit Loan or Swingline Loan, any U.S. federal withholding tax that is imposed under a law in effect at the time such Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new lending office), except to the extent that such Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, immediately prior to the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to this Section and (iii) any U.S. federal withholding tax imposed as a result of a Lender failing to comply with 3.10(c) or (d). If any such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions or withholdings ("") are required to be withheld from any amounts payable to the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder or under any Loan Document, the amounts so payable to the Administrative Agent or such Lender shall be increased to the extent necessary to yield to the Administrative Agent or such Lender (after payment of all Non-Excluded Taxes) interest or any such other amounts payable hereunder at the rates or in the amounts specified in such Loan Document. Whenever any Non-Excluded Taxes are payable by the Borrower or the Term Loan Borrower, as promptly as possible thereafter the Borrower or the Term Loan Borrower, as applicable, shall send to the Administrative Agent for its own account or for the account of such Lender, as the case may be, a certified copy of an original official receipt received by the Borrower or the Term Loan Borrower, as applicable, showing payment thereof or other evidence of such payment satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (in its reasonable discretion). If either of the Borrowers fails to pay any Non-Excluded Taxes when due to the appropriate taxing authority or fails to remit to the Administrative Agent the required receipts or other required documentary evidence, the relevant Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and the Lenders for any incremental taxes, interest or penalties that may become payable by the Administrative Agent or any Lender as a result of any such failure. The agreements in this subsection shall survive the termination of this Agreement and each other Loan Document and the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder and thereunder.
(a)
          
Section 3.12
Section 
Non-Excluded Taxes
 
The Borrower shall indemnify and hold harmless the Administrative Agent and each Lender within 20 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Non-Excluded Taxes (including Non-Excluded Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) payable by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto; that the Borrower shall not be obligated to indemnify the Administrative Agent or any such Lender pursuant to this in respect of penalties, interest or reasonable expenses if such penalties, interest or reasonable expenses are attributable to the gross negligence or wilful misconduct of the person seeking indemnification.
(b)
          
provided
Section 3.10(b)
 
Each Lender (or Transferee) (other than a Lender that is solely a Term Lender or Transferee with respect to a Term Loan) that is not (i) a citizen or resident of the United States of America, (ii) a corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States of America (or any jurisdiction thereof) or (iii) an estate or trust that is subject to federal income taxation regardless of the source of its income (a "") shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (or, in the case of a Participant, to the Lender from which the related participation shall have been purchased and the Lender shall promptly provide the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with a Form W-8IMY and the portion of any Loans retained on the forms otherwise required pursuant to this ) two copies of either U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or Form W-8ECI, or, in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming exemption from U.S. federal withholding tax under Section 871(h) or 881(c) of the Code with respect to payments of "portfolio interest" a statement substantially in the form of and a Form W-8BEN, or any subsequent versions thereof or successors thereto properly completed and duly executed by such Non-U.S. Lender claiming complete exemption from, or a reduced rate of, U.S. federal withholding tax on all payments of interest by the Borrowers under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Such forms shall be delivered by each Non-U.S. Lender on or before the date it becomes a party to any Loan Document (or, in the case of any Participant, on or before the date such Participant purchases the related participation). In addition, each Non-U.S. Lender shall deliver such forms promptly upon the obsolescence or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Non-U.S. Lender. Each Non-U.S. Lender shall promptly notify the Borrower at any time it determines that it is no longer in a position to provide any previously delivered certificate to the Borrower (or any other form of certification adopted by the U.S. taxing authorities for such purpose). Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph, a Non-U.S. Lender shall not be required to deliver any form pursuant to this paragraph that such Non-U.S. Lender is not legally able to deliver.
(c)
          
Non-U.S. Lender
subsection 3.10(c)
Exhibit K
 
A Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of non-U.S. withholding or similar tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which any of the Borrowers are located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Borrower or the Term Loan Borrower, as applicable (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law and as reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Term Loan Borrower, as applicable, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate, that such Lender is legally entitled to complete, execute and deliver such documentation and in such Lender's reasonable judgment such completion, execution or submission would not materially prejudice the legal position of such
(d)
          
provided
Lender or be otherwise materially disadvantageous to such Lender; , , that the Borrower or the Term Loan Borrower, as applicable, shall reimburse such Lender for any material out-of-pocket costs that are incurred by the Lender with respect to providing any such documentation.
provided
further
 
3.11
       
Indemnity.
 
The Borrower agrees to indemnify each Lender (other than a Term Lender) and to hold each such Lender harmless from any loss or expense which such Lender may sustain or incur as a consequence of (a) default by the Borrower in making a borrowing of, conversion into or continuation of Eurodollar Loans, Local Currency Loans, Multicurrency Loans or CAF Advances after the Borrower has given a notice requesting the same in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, (b) default by the Borrower or any Foreign Subsidiary Borrower in making any prepayment after the Borrower or such Foreign Subsidiary Borrower has given a notice thereof in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or (c) the making of a prepayment of Eurodollar Loans, Local Currency Loans, Multicurrency Loans or CAF Advances or the conversion of Eurodollar Loans to ABR Loans on a day which is not the last day of an Interest Period with respect thereto. Such indemnification may include an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the amount so prepaid, or not so borrowed, converted or continued, for the period from the date of such prepayment or of such failure to borrow, convert or continue to the last day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, the Interest Period that would have commenced on the date of such failure) or, in the case of CAF Advances, the applicable CAF Advance Maturity Date (or proposed CAF Advance Maturity Date), in each case at the applicable rate of interest for such Loans provided for herein (excluding, however, the Applicable Margin or any positive margin applicable to CAF Advances included therein, if any) over (ii) the amount of interest (as reasonably determined by such Lender) which would have accrued to such Lender on such amount by placing such amount on deposit for a comparable period with leading banks in the interbank eurodollar market. This covenant shall survive the termination of this Agreement and each other Loan Document and the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder and thereunder.
(a)
          
 
The Term Loan Borrower agrees to indemnify each Term Lender and to hold each Term Lender harmless from any loss or expense which such Term Lender may sustain or incur as a consequence of (a) default by the Term Loan Borrower in making a borrowing of, conversion into or continuation of Eurodollar Loans after the Term Loan Borrower has given a notice requesting the same in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, (b) default by the Term Loan Borrower in making any prepayment after the Term Loan Borrower has given a notice thereof in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or (c) the making by the Term Loan Borrower of a prepayment of Eurodollar Loans or the conversion of Eurodollar Loans to ABR Loans on a day which is not the last day of an Interest Period with respect thereto. Such indemnification may include an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the amount so prepaid, or not so borrowed, converted or continued, for the period from the date of such prepayment or of such failure to borrow, convert or continue to the last day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, the Interest Period that would have commenced on the date of such
(b)
          
failure), in each case at the applicable rate of interest for such Loans provided for herein (excluding, however, the Applicable Margin) over (ii) the amount of interest (as reasonably determined by such Term Lender) which would have accrued to such Term Lender on such amount by placing such amount on deposit for a comparable period with leading banks in the interbank eurodollar market. This covenant shall survive the termination of this Agreement and each other Loan Document and the payment of the Term Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder and thereunder.
 
Each Lender agrees that if it makes any demand for payment under or , or if any adoption or change of the type described in shall occur with respect to it, (i) it will use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions and so long as such efforts would not be disadvantageous to it, as determined in its sole discretion) to designate a different lending office if the making of such a designation would reduce or obviate the need for the Borrowers to make payments under or , or would eliminate or reduce the effect of any adoption or change described in or (ii) it will, upon at least five Business Days' notice from the Borrowers to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, assign, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of and , to one or more Assignees designated by the Borrowers all, but not less than all, of such Lender's rights and obligations hereunder (other than rights in respect of such Lender's outstanding CAF Advance), without recourse to or warranty by, or expense to, such Lender, for a purchase price equal to the outstanding principal amount of each Loan (other than a CAF Advance) then owing to such Lender any accrued but unpaid interest thereon and any accrued but unpaid facility fees and utilization fees owing thereto and, in addition, all additional costs and reimbursements, expense reimbursements and indemnities, if any, owing in respect of such Lender's Commitment hereunder at such time (including any amount that would be payable under if such assignment were, instead, a prepayment in full of all amounts owing to such Lender) shall be paid to such Lender.
3.12
Change of Lending Office; Removal of Lender.
       
subsection 3.9
3.10(a)
subsection 3.8
subsection 3.9
3.10(a)
subsection 3.8
subsection 13.6(c)
13.19
plus
subsection 3.11
 
3.13
Evidence of Debt.
       
 
Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing indebtedness of the Borrowers to such Lender resulting from each Loan of such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time under this Agreement.
(a)
          
 
The Administrative Agent shall maintain the Register pursuant to , and a subaccount therein for each Lender, in which shall be recorded (i) in the case of Term Loans, Revolving Credit Loans and Swingline Loans, the amount of each Term Loan, Revolving Credit Loan or Swingline Loan made hereunder, the Type thereof and each Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) in the case of Multicurrency Loans, the amount and currency of each Multicurrency Loans and each Interest Period applicable thereto, (iii) in the case of CAF Advances, the amount and currency of each CAF Advance made hereunder, the CAF Advance Maturity Date thereof, the interest rate applicable thereto and each CAF Advance Interest Payment Date applicable thereto, (iv) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrowers to each Lender hereunder and (v) both the amount of
(b)
          
subsection 13.6(d)
any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder from the Borrowers and each Lender's share thereof.
 
The entries made in the Register and the accounts of each Lender maintained pursuant to shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations of the Borrowers therein recorded; , , that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain the Register or any such account, or any error therein, shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrowers to repay (with applicable interest) the Loans made to the Borrowers by such Lender in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
(c)
          
subsection 3.13(a)
provided
however
 
The Borrower agrees that, upon the request to the Administrative Agent by any Revolving Lender, the Borrower will execute and deliver to such Revolving Lender a promissory note of the Borrower evidencing the Revolving Credit Loans of such Revolving Lender, substantially in the form of with appropriate insertions as to date and principal amount (a "").
(d)
          
Exhibit A
Revolving Credit Note
 
The Borrower agrees that, upon the request to the Administrative Agent by any Lender, the Borrower will execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note of the Borrower evidencing the CAF Advances of such Lender, substantially in the form of with appropriate insertions (a "").
(e)
          
Exhibit B
CAF Advance Note
 
The Term Loan Borrower agrees that, upon the request to the Administrative Agent by any Term Lender, the Term Loan Borrower will execute and deliver to such Term Lender a promissory note of the Term Loan Borrower evidencing the Term Loans of such Term Lender, substantially in the form of with appropriate insertions as to date and principal amount (a "").
(f)
           
Exhibit C
Term Note
 
The Borrower agrees that, upon the request to the Administrative Agent by any Multicurrency Lender, the Borrower will execute and deliver to such Multicurrency Lender a promissory note of the Borrower evidencing the Multicurrency Loans of such Multicurrency Lender, substantially in the form of with appropriate insertions as to date and principal amount (a "").
(g)
          
Exhibit M
Multicurrency Note
 
SECTION 4 LOCAL CURRENCY FACILITIES
 
Terms of Local Currency Facilities.
4.1
         
 
Subject to the provisions of this , the Borrower may in its discretion from time to time designate any Subsidiary of the Borrower organized under the laws of any jurisdiction outside the United States as a "" and any Qualified Credit Facility to which such Foreign Subsidiary Borrower and any one or more Lenders (or its Affiliates, agencies or branches) is a party as a "", with the consent of each such Lender in its sole discretion, by delivering a Local Currency Facility Addendum to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (through the Administrative Agent) executed by the Borrower, each such Foreign Subsidiary Borrower and each such Lender, , that on the effective
(a)
          
Section 4
Foreign Subsidiary Borrower
Local Currency Facility
provided
date of such designation no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Concurrently with the delivery of a Local Currency Facility Addendum, the Borrower or the relevant Foreign Subsidiary Borrower shall furnish to the Administrative Agent copies of all documentation executed and delivered by such Foreign Subsidiary Borrower in connection therewith, together with, if applicable, an English translation thereof. Except as otherwise provided in this or in the definition of "" in , the terms and conditions of each Local Currency Facility shall be determined by mutual agreement of the relevant Foreign Subsidiary Borrower(s) and Local Currency Lender(s). The documentation governing each Local Currency Facility shall (i) contain an express acknowledgement that such Local Currency Facility shall be subject to the provisions of this , (ii) if more than one Lender is a party thereto, designate a Local Currency Facility Agent for such Local Currency Facility and (iii) include an opinion of counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent from the jurisdiction in which such Local Currency Facility is established that the documentation governing such Local Currency Facility is enforceable in accordance with its terms. Each of the Borrower and, by agreeing to any Local Currency Facility designation as contemplated hereby, each relevant Local Currency Lender (if any) party thereto which is an Affiliate, branch or agency of a Lender, acknowledges and agrees that each reference in this Agreement to any Lender shall, to the extent applicable, be deemed to be a reference to such Local Currency Lender. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of any Local Currency Facility, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section 4
Qualified Credit Facility
subsection 1.1
Section 4
 
The documentation governing each Local Currency Facility shall set forth (i) the maximum amount (expressed in Dollars) available to be borrowed from all Local Currency Lenders under such Local Currency Facility (as the same may be reduced from time to time, a "") and (ii) with respect to each Local Currency Lender party to such Local Currency Facility, the maximum amount (expressed in Dollars) available to be borrowed from such Local Currency Lender thereunder (as the same may be reduced from time to time, a "").
(b)
          
Local Currency Facility Maximum Borrowing Amount
Local Currency Lender Maximum Borrowing Amount
 
Except as otherwise required by applicable law, in no event shall the Local Currency Lenders party to a Local Currency Facility have the right to accelerate the Local Currency Loans outstanding thereunder, or to terminate their commitments (if any) to make such Local Currency Loans prior to the earlier of the stated termination date in respect thereof or the Termination Date, except, in each case, in connection with an acceleration of the Loans or a termination of the Commitments pursuant to hereof, , that nothing in this paragraph (c) shall be deemed to require any Local Currency Lender to make a Local Currency Loan if the applicable conditions precedent to the making of such Local Currency Loan set forth in the documentation governing the relevant Local Currency Facility have not been satisfied. No Local Currency Loan may be made under a Local Currency Facility if (i) after giving effect thereto, the conditions precedent in hereof would not be satisfied or (ii) after giving effect to the making of such Local Currency Loan and the simultaneous application of the proceeds thereof, (A) the Aggregate Total Revolving Outstandings of all Lenders at any time exceeds the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments or (B) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Multicurrency Loans, Local Currency Loans and L/C Obligations attributable to Letters of Credit denominated in any currency other than Dollars would exceed $800,000,000.
(c)
          
Section 10
provided
subsection 7.2
The relevant Foreign Subsidiary Borrower shall furnish to the Administrative Agent copies of any amendment, supplement or other modification (including any change in commitment amounts or in the Local Currency Lenders participating in any Local Currency Facility) to the terms of any Local Currency Facility promptly after the effectiveness thereof (together with, if applicable, an English translation thereof). If any such amendment, supplement or other modification to a Local Currency Facility shall (i) add a Local Currency Lender as a Local Currency Lender thereunder or (ii) change the Local Currency Facility Maximum Borrowing Amount or any Local Currency Lender Maximum Borrowing Amount with respect thereto, the Borrower shall promptly furnish an appropriately revised Local Currency Facility Addendum, executed by the Borrower, the relevant Foreign Subsidiary Borrower and the affected Local Currency Lenders (or any agent acting on their behalf), to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (through the Administrative Agent).
(d)
          
 
The Borrower may terminate its designation of a facility as a Local Currency Facility, with the consent of each Local Currency Lender party thereto in its sole discretion, by written notice to the Administrative Agent, which notice shall be executed by the Borrower, the relevant Foreign Subsidiary Borrower and each Local Currency Lender party to such Local Currency Facility (or any agent acting on their behalf). Once notice of such termination is received by the Administrative Agent, such Local Currency Facility and the loans and other obligations outstanding thereunder shall immediately cease to be subject to the terms of this Agreement.
(e)
          
 
Reporting of Local Currency Outstandings.
4.2
         
 
On the date of the making of any Local Currency Loan having a maturity of 30 or more days to a Foreign Subsidiary Borrower and on the last Business Day of each month on which a Foreign Subsidiary Borrower has any outstanding Local Currency Loans, the Local Currency Facility Agent for such Foreign Subsidiary Borrower, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a Notice of Local Currency Outstandings and the Administrative Agent shall deliver a copy of such Notice of Local Currency Outstandings to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent will, at the request of any Local Currency Facility Agent, advise such Local Currency Facility Agent of the Exchange Rate used by the Administrative Agent in calculating the Dollar Equivalent of Local Currency Loans under the related Local Currency Facility on any date.
(a)
          
 
For purposes of any calculation under this Agreement in which the amount of the Aggregate Local Currency Outstandings of any Lender is a component, the Administrative Agent shall make such calculation on the basis of the Notices of Local Currency Outstanding received by it at least two Business Days prior to the date of such calculation.
(b)
          
 
SECTION 5 LETTERS OF CREDIT
 
L/C Commitment.
5.1
         
 
Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Issuing Lender, in reliance on the agreements of the other Revolving Lenders set forth in , agrees to issue letters of credit ("") for the account of the Borrower on any Business Day during the Commitment Period in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Issuing Lender;
(a)
          
subsection 5.4(a)
Letters of Credit
that the Issuing Lender shall not issue any Letter of Credit if, after giving effect to such issuance, (i) the L/C Obligations would exceed the L/C Commitment, (ii) the aggregate amount of the Available Revolving Credit Commitments would be less than zero or (iii) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Multicurrency Loans, Local Currency Loans and L/C Obligations attributable to Letters of Credit denominated in any currency other than Dollars would exceed $800,000,000. Each Letter of Credit shall (i) be denominated in Dollars or any Available Foreign Currency or any other currency acceptable to the Issuing Lender (, that the Dollar Equivalent of all L/C Obligations attributable to Letters of Credit denominated in currencies other than Dollars shall not exceed, in the aggregate, $800,000,000), (ii) have a face amount of at least $1,000,000 (unless otherwise agreed by the Issuing Lender) and (iii) expire no later than the date that is five Business Days prior to the Termination Date; that the JPMorgan Letter of Credit, as in effect on the date hereof, shall be a "Letter of Credit" hereunder.
provided
provided
provided
 
The Issuing Lender shall not at any time be obligated to issue any Letter of Credit if such issuance would conflict with, or cause the Issuing Lender or any L/C Participant to exceed any limits imposed by, any applicable Requirement of Law.
(b)
          
 
The Borrower may from time to time request that the Issuing Lender issue a Letter of Credit by delivering to the Issuing Lender at its address for notices specified herein an Application therefor, completed to the satisfaction of the Issuing Lender, and such other certificates, documents and other papers and information as the Issuing Lender may request. Upon receipt of any Application, the Issuing Lender will process such Application and the certificates, documents and other papers and information delivered to it in connection therewith in accordance with its customary procedures and shall promptly issue the Letter of Credit requested thereby (but in no event shall the Issuing Lender be required to issue any Letter of Credit earlier than three Business Days after its receipt of the Application therefor and all such other certificates, documents and other papers and information relating thereto) by issuing the original of such Letter of Credit to the beneficiary thereof or as otherwise may be agreed to by the Issuing Lender and the Borrower. The Issuing Lender shall furnish a copy of such Letter of Credit to the Borrower promptly following the issuance thereof. The Issuing Lender shall promptly furnish to the Administrative Agent, which shall in turn promptly furnish to the Lenders, notice of the issuance of each Letter of Credit (including the amount thereof).
5.2
Procedure for Issuance of Letter of Credit.
         
 
5.3
Fees and Other Charges.
         
 
The Borrower will pay a fee on the actual daily undrawn and unexpired amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit at a per annum rate equal to the Applicable Margin then in effect with respect to Eurodollar Loans, shared ratably among the Revolving Lenders and payable quarterly in arrears on each L/C Fee Payment Date after the issuance date; such fee with respect to each Letter of Credit denominated in any currency other than Dollars shall be payable in Dollars, and for purposes of calculating the amount of such fee applicable to each Letter of Credit denominated in any currency other than Dollars, the actual daily undrawn and unexpired amount of such Letter of Credit shall be the Dollar Equivalent of such amount calculated at the Exchange Rate as of the relevant L/C Fee Payment Date. In addition, the Borrower shall pay to the Issuing
(a)
          
Lender for its own account a fronting fee of 0.125% per annum on the actual daily undrawn and unexpired amount of each Letter of Credit, payable quarterly in arrears on each L/C Fee Payment Date after the issuance date; such fee with respect to each Letter of Credit denominated in any currency other than Dollars shall be payable in Dollars, and for purposes of calculating the amount of such fee applicable to each Letter of Credit denominated in any currency other than Dollars, the actual daily undrawn and unexpired amount of such Letter of Credit shall be the Dollar Equivalent of such amount calculated at the Exchange Rate as of the relevant L/C Fee Payment Date.
 
In addition to the foregoing fees, the Borrower shall pay or reimburse the Issuing Lender for such normal and customary costs and expenses as are incurred or charged by the Issuing Lender in issuing, negotiating, effecting payment under, amending or otherwise administering any Letter of Credit.
(b)
          
 
5.4
L/C Participations.
         
 
The Issuing Lender irrevocably agrees to grant and hereby grants to each L/C Participant, and, to induce the Issuing Lender to issue Letters of Credit, each L/C Participant irrevocably agrees to accept and purchase and hereby accepts and purchases from the Issuing Lender, on the terms and conditions set forth below, for such L/C Participant's own account and risk an undivided interest equal to such L/C Participant's Revolving Credit Commitment Percentage in the Issuing Lender's obligations and rights under and in respect of each Letter of Credit and the amount of each draft paid by the Issuing Lender thereunder. Each L/C Participant unconditionally and irrevocably agrees with the Issuing Lender that, if a draft is paid under any Letter of Credit for which the Issuing Lender is not reimbursed in full by the Borrower in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such L/C Participant shall pay to the Issuing Lender through the Administrative Agent upon demand at the Administrative Agent's address for notices specified herein an amount equal to such L/C Participant's Revolving Credit Commitment Percentage of the amount of such draft, or any part thereof, that is not so reimbursed.
(a)
          
 
If any amount required to be paid by any L/C Participant to the Issuing Lender pursuant to in respect of any unreimbursed portion of any payment made by the Issuing Lender under any Letter of Credit is paid to the Issuing Lender within three Business Days after the date such payment is due, such L/C Participant shall pay to the Issuing Lender on demand an amount equal to the product of (i) such amount, times (ii) the daily average Federal Funds Effective Rate during the period from and including the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Issuing Lender, times (iii) a fraction the numerator of which is the number of days that elapse during such period and the denominator of which is 360. If any such amount required to be paid by any L/C Participant pursuant to is not made available to the Issuing Lender by such L/C Participant within three Business Days after the date such payment is due, the Issuing Lender shall be entitled to recover from such L/C Participant, on demand, such amount with interest thereon calculated from such due date at the rate per annum applicable to ABR Loans. A certificate of the Issuing Lender submitted through the Administrative Agent to any L/C Participant with respect to any amounts owing under this Section shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.
(b)
          
subsection 5.4(a)
subsection 5.4(a)
Whenever, at any time after the Issuing Lender has made payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any L/C Participant its share of such payment in accordance with , the Administrative Agent receives any payment related to such Letter of Credit (whether directly from the Borrower or otherwise, including proceeds of collateral applied thereto by the Issuing Lender), or any payment of interest on account thereof, the Administrative Agent will distribute to such L/C Participant its share thereof; , , that in the event that any such payment received by the Issuing Lender shall be required to be returned by the Issuing Lender, such L/C Participant shall return to the Issuing Lender through the Administrative Agent the portion thereof previously distributed by the Issuing Lender to it.
(c)
          
pro rata
subsection 5.4(a)
pro rata
provided
however
 
The Borrower agrees to reimburse the Issuing Lender through the Administrative Agent on the Business Day next succeeding the Business Day on which the Issuing Lender notifies the Borrower and the Administrative Agent of the date and amount of a draft presented under any Letter of Credit and paid by the Issuing Lender for the amount of (a) such draft so paid and (b) any taxes, fees, charges or other costs or expenses incurred by the Issuing Lender in connection with such payment. Each such payment shall be made to the Issuing Lender in Dollars and in immediately available funds. Interest shall be payable on any such amounts from the date on which the relevant draft is paid until payment in full at the rate set forth in (i) until the Business Day next succeeding the date of the relevant notice, and (ii) thereafter, . Each drawing under any Letter of Credit shall (unless an event of the type described in clause (i) or (ii) of shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to the Borrower, in which case the procedures specified in for funding by L/C Participants shall apply) constitute a request by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent for a borrowing pursuant to of ABR Loans in the amount of such drawing (and the minimum borrowing amount in such subsection shall not apply to such borrowing). The Borrowing Date with respect to such borrowing shall be the first date on which a borrowing of Revolving Credit Loans could be made, pursuant to , if the Administrative Agent had received a notice of such borrowing at the time the Administrative Agent receives notice from the relevant Issuing Lender of such drawing under such Letter of Credit.
5.5
Reimbursement Obligation of the Borrower.
         
subsection 3.4(b)
subsection 3.4(e)
Section 10(g)
subsection 5.4
subsection 2.5
subsection 2.5
 
The Borrower's obligations under this shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances and irrespective of any setoff, counterclaim or defense to payment that the Borrower may have or have had against the Issuing Lender, any beneficiary of a Letter of Credit or any other Person. The Borrower also agrees with the Issuing Lender that the Issuing Lender shall not be responsible for, and the Borrower's Reimbursement Obligations under shall not be affected by, among other things, the validity or genuineness of documents or of any endorsements thereon, even though such documents shall in fact prove to be invalid, fraudulent or forged, or any dispute between or among the Borrower and any beneficiary of any Letter of Credit or any other party to which such Letter of Credit may be transferred or any claims whatsoever of the Borrower against any beneficiary of such Letter of Credit or any such transferee. The Issuing Lender shall not be liable for any error, omission, interruption or delay in transmission, dispatch or delivery of any message or advice, however transmitted, in connection with any Letter of Credit, except for errors or omissions found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted
5.6
Obligations Absolute.
         
Section 5
subsection 5.5
from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Issuing Lender. The Borrower agrees that any action taken or omitted by the Issuing Lender under or in connection with any Letter of Credit or the related drafts or documents, if done in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct and in accordance with the standards of care specified in the Uniform Commercial Code of the State of New York, shall be binding on the Borrower and shall not result in any liability of the Issuing Lender to the Borrower.
 
If any draft shall be presented for payment under any Letter of Credit, the Issuing Lender shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent of the date and amount thereof. The responsibility of the Issuing Lender to the Borrower in connection with any draft presented for payment under any Letter of Credit shall, in addition to any payment obligation expressly provided for in such Letter of Credit, be limited to determining that the documents (including each draft) delivered under such Letter of Credit in connection with such presentment are substantially in conformity with such Letter of Credit.
5.7
Letter of Credit Payments.
         
 
To the extent that any provision of any Application related to any Letter of Credit is inconsistent with the provisions of this , the provisions of this Section 5 shall apply.
5.8
Applications.
         
Section 5
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this , in the event that any Letter of Credit is denominated in any currency other than Dollars, the amount of the Reimbursement Obligation of the Borrower pursuant to in respect of such Letter of Credit shall bear interest as provided in with respect to amounts owing in Dollars; , that (i) the interest rate on such amounts shall be the rate reasonably determined by the Issuing Lender to be the equivalent rate, in respect of the relevant non-Dollar currency, to the applicable rate provided in with respect to amounts denominated in Dollars and (ii) if the Borrower fails to pay any such Reimbursement Obligation required by on or prior to the third Business Day following the date of the drawing to which such Reimbursement Obligation relates, then, on the fourth Business Day following such date of drawing, the relevant Issuing Lender, in cooperation with the Administrative Agent, shall determine the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of such Reimbursement Obligation, and the Borrower's obligation in respect of such Reimbursement Obligation shall be converted to such Dollar Equivalent, with interest thereon as provided in (, that if the Application in respect of such Letter of Credit provides for conversion of such amount into Dollars on any earlier date or at any other conversion rate, the provisions hereunder shall control with respect to such conversion).
5.9
Reimbursement Obligations for Certain Letters of Credit Denominated in Currencies Other Than Dollars.
         
Section 5
Section 5.5
Section 5.5
provided
Section 5.5
Section 5.5
Section 5.5
provided
 
SECTION 6 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
 
To induce the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to enter into this Agreement and to make the Loans and issue or participate in the Letters of Credit, each of the Borrower and, with respect to , , and , the Term Loan Borrower, hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and each Lender that:
Sections 6.2
6.3
6.9
6.10
 
The consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 and the related consolidated
6.1
Financial Condition.
         
statements of operations and of cash flows for the fiscal years ended on such dates, reported on by Ernst & Young LLP, copies of which have heretofore been furnished to each Lender, are complete and correct and present fairly the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at such dates, and the consolidated results of their operations and their consolidated cash flows for the fiscal years then ended. The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at the date of the Borrower's most recent publicly available Form 10-Q and the related unaudited consolidated statements of operations and of cash flows for the fiscal period ended on such date, certified by a Responsible Officer, copies of which have heretofore been furnished to each Lender, are complete and materially correct and present fairly (subject to normal year-end audit adjustments) the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at such date, and the consolidated results of their operations and their consolidated cash flows for the fiscal period then ended. All such annual financial statements, including the related schedules and notes thereto, were, as of the date prepared, prepared in accordance with GAAP applied consistently throughout the periods involved (except as approved by such accountants or Responsible Officer, as the case may be, and as disclosed therein). The quarterly financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of 1933. Accordingly, such quarterly statements do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. In the opinion of the Borrower, all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. Neither the Borrower nor any of its consolidated Subsidiaries had, at the date of the most recent balance sheet referred to above, any material Guarantee Obligation, material contingent liability or material liability for taxes, or any material long-term lease or material unusual forward or long-term commitment, including, without limitation, any interest rate or foreign currency swap or exchange transaction, which is not reflected in the foregoing statements or in the notes thereto.
 
Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (a) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing (or, in the case of the Term Loan Borrower, is duly incorporated and no steps have been taken to appoint a receiver, examiner or liquidator over it or for the Term Loan Borrower's liquidation or dissolution) under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, (b) has the corporate power and authority, and the legal right, to own and operate its property, to lease the property it operates as lessee and to conduct the business in which it is currently engaged, (c) is duly qualified as a foreign corporation and in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification and (d) is in compliance with all Requirements of Law, except to the extent that the failure of the foregoing clauses (a) (only with respect to Subsidiaries of the Borrower (other than the Term Loan Borrower)), (c) and (d) to be true and correct could not, in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.2
Corporate Existence; Compliance with Law.
         
 
Each of the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower has the corporate power and authority, and the legal right, to make, deliver and perform the Loan Documents to which it is a party and to borrow hereunder and has taken all necessary corporate action to (i) authorize the borrowings on
6.3
Corporate Power; Consents and Authorization; Enforceable Obligations.
         
the terms and conditions of this Agreement, any Notes and any Applications, (ii) to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents to which it is a party and (iii) in the case of the Borrower, to guarantee all Obligations of the Term Loan Borrower and any Foreign Subsidiary Borrower hereunder. No consent or authorization of, filing with, notice to or other act by or in respect of, any Governmental Authority (including, without limitation, exchange control) or any other Person is required with respect to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the borrowings or guarantee hereunder or with the execution, delivery, performance, validity or enforceability of the Loan Documents to which the Borrowers are party. This Agreement and each other Loan Document to which each of the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower is, or is to become, a party has been or will be, duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower or the Term Loan Borrower, as applicable. This Agreement and each other Loan Document to which each of the Borrowers is, or is to become, a party constitutes or will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower, enforceable against the Borrowers in accordance with its terms, subject to the effects of bankruptcy, examination, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
The execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents, the borrowings hereunder and the use of the proceeds thereof will not violate any Requirement of Law or Contractual Obligation of the Borrower or of any of its Subsidiaries which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and will not result in, or require, the creation or imposition of any Lien on any of its or their respective properties or revenues pursuant to any such Requirement of Law or Contractual Obligation which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.4
No Legal Bar.
         
 
Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is in default under or with respect to any of its Contractual Obligations in any respect which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
6.5
No Default.
         
 
Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has filed or caused to be filed all tax returns which, to the knowledge of the Borrower, are required to be filed and has paid all taxes shown to be due and payable on said returns or on any assessments made against it (other than any the amount or validity of which are currently being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which reserves in conformity with GAAP have been provided on the books of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be), except to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
6.6
Taxes.
         
 
No part of the proceeds of any Loans will be used in any manner that would violate Regulation U of the Board as now and from time to time hereafter in effect.
6.7
Federal Regulations.
         
 
Neither a Reportable Event nor an "accumulated funding deficiency" (within the meaning of Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA) has occurred during the five-year period prior to the date on which this representation is made or deemed made with
6.8
ERISA.
         
respect to any Plan other than a Multiemployer Plan, and each Plan has complied in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code, where the liability could be reasonably expected to result could have a Material Adverse Effect; , , that with respect to any Multiemployer Plan, such representation is made only to the knowledge of the Borrower. No termination of a Single Employer Plan pursuant to Section 4041(c) or 4042 of ERISA has occurred, and no Lien in favor of the PBGC or a Plan has arisen, during such five-year period. The present value of all accrued benefits under each Single Employer Plan (based on those assumptions used to fund such Plans) did not, as of the last annual valuation date prior to the date on which this representation is made or deemed made, exceed the value of the assets of such Plan allocable to such accrued benefits by a material amount. Neither the Borrower nor any Commonly Controlled Entity has had a complete or partial withdrawal from any Multiemployer Plan and to the knowledge of the Borrower, neither the Borrower nor any Commonly Controlled Entity would become subject to any liability under ERISA if the Borrower or any such Commonly Controlled Entity were to withdraw completely from all Multiemployer Plans as of the valuation date most closely preceding the date on which this representation is made or deemed made which liability could be reasonably expected to result could have a Material Adverse Effect. No such Multiemployer Plan is in Reorganization or Insolvent.
provided
however
 
Neither the Borrower nor the Term Loan Borrower is an "investment company", or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Neither the Borrower nor the Term Loan Borrower is subject to regulation under any Federal or State statute or regulation (other than Regulation X of the Board) which limits its ability to incur Indebtedness.
6.9
Investment Company Act; Other Regulations.
         
 
On the Closing Date, (i) the proceeds of the Term Loans shall be used to finance a portion of the cash consideration for the Acquisition and related uses of cash and (ii) up to $600.0 million of the Revolving Credit Loans may be used to finance a portion of the cash consideration for the Acquisition and related uses of cash and for working capital purposes. After the Closing Date, the proceeds of the Loans shall be used to finance the working capital and general corporate needs of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including but not limited to acquisitions.
6.10
Purpose of Loans.
       
 
Except to the extent that the failure of the following statements to be true and correct could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect:
6.11
Environmental Matters.
       
 
The facilities and properties owned, leased or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (the "") do not contain, and have not previously contained, any Materials of Environmental Concern in amounts or concentrations which (i) constitute or constituted a violation of, or (ii) could reasonably be expected to give rise to liability under, any Environmental Law.
(a)
          
Properties
 
The Properties and all operations at the Properties are in compliance, and have in the last five years been in compliance, in all material respects with all applicable Environmental Laws, and there is no contamination at, under or about the Properties or violation of any Environmental Law with respect to the Properties or the business operated
(b)
          
by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (the "") which could reasonably be expected to materially interfere with the continued operation of the Properties or materially impair the fair saleable value thereof.
Business
 
Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries has received any notice of violation, alleged violation, non-compliance, liability or potential liability regarding environmental matters or compliance with Environmental Laws with regard to any of the Properties or the Business, nor does the Borrower have knowledge or reason to believe that any such notice will be received or is being threatened.
(c)
          
 
Materials of Environmental Concern have not been transported or disposed of from the Properties in violation of, or in a manner or to a location which could reasonably be expected to give rise to liability under, any Environmental Law, nor have any Materials of Environmental Concern been generated, treated, stored or disposed of at, on or under any of the Properties in violation of, or in a manner that could reasonably be expected to give rise to liability under, any applicable Environmental Law.
(d)
          
 
No judicial proceeding or governmental or administrative action is pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened, under any Environmental Law to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is or will be named as a party with respect to the Properties or the Business, nor are there any consent decrees or other decrees, consent orders, administrative orders or other orders, or other administrative or judicial requirements outstanding under any Environmental Law with respect to the Properties or the Business.
(e)
          
 
There has been no release or threat of release of Materials of Environmental Concern at or from the Properties, or arising from or related to the operations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in connection with the Properties or otherwise in connection with the Business, in violation of or in amounts or in a manner that could reasonably be expected to give rise to liability under Environmental Laws.
(f)
           
 
The statements and information contained herein and in any of the information provided to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders in writing in connection with this Agreement, taken as a whole, do not contain any untrue statement of any material fact, or omit to state a fact necessary in order to make such statements or information not misleading in any material respect, in each case in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made or information provided as of the date so provided.
6.12
Disclosure.
       
 
SECTION 7 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT
 
The effectiveness of this Agreement is subject to the satisfaction on the Closing Date of the following conditions precedent:
7.1
Conditions to Closing.
         
 
. The Administrative Agent shall have received this Agreement, executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer of each Lender, the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower, with a counterpart for each Lender and original
(a)
          
Credit Agreement
Notes executed by the Borrower (in the case of Revolving Credit Notes, Multicurrency Notes or CAF Advance Notes) or the Term Loan Borrower (in the case of Term Notes), in favor of each Lender requesting a Note.
 
. The Administrative Agent shall have received, with a counterpart for each Lender, a certificate of the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower, dated the Closing Date, substantially in the form of , with appropriate insertions and attachments, satisfactory in form and substance to the Administrative Agent, executed by the President or any Vice President and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower.
(b)
          
Closing Certificate
Exhibit G
 
.
(c)
          
Representations and Warranties
 
The representations and warranties made by the Borrowers in or pursuant to (other than clause (d) thereof), , and shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Closing Date as if made on and as of the Closing Date; and
(i)
           
subsections 6.2
6.3
6.9
6.10
 
Each of the representations and warranties that are material to interests of the Lenders set forth in the Acquisition Agreement shall be true and correct as of the date or dates made or deemed to be made pursuant to the terms thereof; that this condition shall be deemed not to have been satisfied only to the extent the Borrower has a right to terminate its obligations under the Acquisition Agreement as a result of a breach of such representations in the Acquisition Agreement.
(ii)
          
provided
 
. The Administrative Agent shall have received, with a counterpart for each Lender, the executed legal opinion of counsel to the Borrower and counsel to the Term Loan Borrower (each of which may be delivered in part by in-house counsel to the Borrowers), covering the matters set forth in and . Each such legal opinion shall cover such other matters incident to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require.
(d)
          
Legal Opinions
Exhibits H-1
H-2
 
. All accrued fees and expenses (including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Arrangers) of the Arrangers through the Closing Date invoiced with reasonable detail at least one Business Day prior to the Closing Date in connection with the Loan Documents shall have been paid; that the Arrangers shall have provided an estimate and available reasonable detail five business days prior to the Closing Date.
(e)
          
Fees
provided
 
. The Acquisition shall have been consummated in all material respects in accordance with the terms of the Acquisition Agreement and all related agreements (without the waiver or amendment of any material condition unless consented to by the Lenders).
(f)
           
Acquisition
 
. There shall not have occurred any change, effect, event, occurrence, state of facts or development which individually or
(g)
          
No Closing Date Material Adverse Effect
in the aggregate would reasonably be expected to result in any change or effect, that is materially adverse to the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (after giving effect to the Transactions), since September 30, 2005 (a ""); , that none of the following shall be deemed, either alone or in combination, to constitute, and none of the following shall be taken into account in determining whether there has been or will be, a Material Adverse Change:  (A) any change, effect, event, occurrence, state of facts or development (1) in the financial or securities markets or the economy in general, (2) in the industries in which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (after giving effect to the Transactions) operates in general, to the extent that such change, effect, event, occurrence, state of facts or development does not disproportionately impact the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (after giving effect to the Transactions), or (3) resulting from any divestiture required to be effected pursuant to the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, (B) any failure, in and of itself, by the Borrower or Target to meet any internal or published projections, forecasts or revenue or earnings predictions (it being understood that the facts or occurrences giving rise or contributing to such failure may be deemed to constitute, or be taken into account in determining whether there has been or would reasonable be expected to be, a Material Adverse Change or (C) any effect on the Borrower's or Target's business relating to or arising from any product recalls announced by Target prior to January 16, 2006, or any related pending or future litigation, investigations by governmental authorities or other developments.
Material Adverse Change
provided
 
. The Borrower shall repay all existing indebtedness on the Closing Date so that after giving effect to the Transactions, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries shall have outstanding no indebtedness or preferred stock (or direct or indirect guarantee or other credit support in respect thereof or off balance sheet equivalents including, without limitation, off balance sheet receivables financing arrangements) other than the Loans, the Interim Loan, $1,850.0 million in outstanding senior notes maturing between 2011 and 2035 (together with any refinancing thereof and increased to the extent of any and all commercially reasonable fees, expenses and premiums associated with any such refinancing), the Abbott Loan, approximately $350.0 million of short-term debt of the type currently at Target and such other indebtedness (including, without limitation, up to the full amount in respect of the Borrower's receivables securitization program substantially as in effect on January 16, 2006) as is reasonably acceptable to the Lenders.
(h)
          
Indebtedness
 
. No law or regulation shall be applicable in the reasonable judgment of the Lenders that restrains, prevents or imposes material adverse conditions upon the Transactions or the financing thereof, including this Agreement. All requisite governmental authorities and third parties shall have approved or consented to the Transactions and the other transactions contemplated hereby to the extent required (without the imposition of any materially burdensome condition or qualification in the reasonable judgment of the Lenders) and all such approvals shall be in full force and effect, all applicable waiting periods shall have expired and there shall be no governmental or judicial action, actual or threatened, that has or could have a reasonable likelihood of restraining, preventing or imposing materially burdensome or materially adverse conditions on any of the Transactions or the other transactions contemplated hereby, other than any such approvals
(i)
           
No conflicts
or consents the absence of which could not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, financial condition, liabilities (contingent or otherwise) or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole (after giving effect to the Transactions). The Transactions and the financing therefor shall be in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lenders (1) consent to any Divestitures (as defined in the Acquisition Agreement) contemplated by Section 5.03 to the Acquisition Agreement and such other immaterial divestitures as may be required by applicable governmental or judicial authorities, and (2) agree that any such Divestitures shall not be deemed to violate the conditions set forth in this paragraph.
 
. No Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on such date or after giving effect to the Loans requested to be made, or Letters of Credit requested to be issued.
(j)
           
No Default
 
. Evidence that all principal amounts, interest, fees and other amounts owed under each of (i) the Borrower's existing $1,500,000,000 Amended and Restated Multi-Year Revolving Credit Agreement and (ii) the Borrower's existing $500,000,000 Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement shall have been paid in full on or before the Closing Date and all commitments and agreements with respect thereto shall have been terminated.
(k)
          
Termination of Existing Credit Facilities
 
. After giving effect to the Term Loans made on the Closing Date to the Term Loan Borrower, the Term Loan Borrower shall be in compliance with the Dutch Banking Act.
(l)
           
Compliance with Dutch Banking Act
 
The agreement of each Lender to make any Loan requested to be made by it on any date following the Closing Date, or to issue any Letter of Credit, is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
7.2
Conditions to Each Loan and Letter of Credit.
         
 
. Each of the representations and warranties made by the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower in or pursuant to the Loan Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of such date as if made on and as of such date.
(a)
          
Representations and Warranties
 
. No Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on such date or after giving effect to the Loans requested to be made, or Letters of Credit requested to be issued.
(b)
          
No Default
 
Each borrowing by each of the Borrowers hereunder, and each request by the Borrower for the issuance of a Letter of Credit shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Term Loan Borrower (in respect of requests for a Term Loan) and/or the Borrower (in respect of requests for all other types of borrowings and Letters of Credit) as of the date thereof that the conditions contained in this subsection have been satisfied.
(c)
          
SECTION 8 AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS
 
The Borrower hereby agrees that, so long as the Commitments (or any of them) remain in effect, any Letter of Credit is outstanding or any amount is owing to any Lender or the Administrative Agent hereunder or under any other Loan Documents, the Borrower shall and (except in the case of delivery of financial information, reports and notices) shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to:
 
Furnish to each Lender:
8.1
Financial Statements.
         
 
as soon as available, but in any event not later than 20 days after required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such year and the related consolidated statements of operations and stockholders' equity and of cash flows for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous year, reported on without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception, or qualification arising out of the scope of the audit, by Ernst & Young LLP or other independent certified public accountants of nationally recognized standing;
(a)
          
 
as soon as available, but in any event not later than 15 days after required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the end of each of the first three quarterly periods of each fiscal year of the Borrower, the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter and the related unaudited consolidated statements of operations for such quarter and the portion of the fiscal year through the end of such quarter and of cash flows of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the portion of the fiscal year through the end of such quarter, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous year, certified by a Responsible Officer as being fairly stated in all material respects (subject to normal year-end audit adjustments); and
(b)
          
 
all such financial statements shall be complete and correct in all material respects and shall be prepared in reasonable detail and in accordance with GAAP applied consistently throughout the periods reflected therein and with prior periods (except as approved by such accountants or officer, as the case may be, and disclosed therein); , that it is hereby acknowledged that the quarterly financial statements delivered pursuant to paragraph (b) above may not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete annual financial statements.
(c)
          
provided
 
Any financial statement required to be furnished pursuant to this shall be deemed to have been furnished on the date on which the Lenders receive notice that the Borrower has posted such financial statement on the Intralinks website on the Internet at www.intralinks.com; that the Borrower shall give notice of any such posting to the Administrative Agent (who shall then give notice of any such posting to the Lenders). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of any financial statement referred to in this to the Administrative Agent if the Administrative Agent or any Lender requests the Borrower
subsection 8.1
provided
subsection 8.1
to furnish such paper copies until written notice to cease delivering such paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent.
 
Furnish to the Administrative Agent with sufficient copies for the Lenders:
8.2
Certificates; Other Information.
         
 
concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and , a certificate of a Responsible Officer stating that such Officer has obtained no knowledge of any Default or Event of Default that has occurred and is continuing except as specified in such certificate, and including calculations demonstrating compliance with ;
(a)
          
subsections 8.1(a)
8.1(b)
subsection 9.1
 
within ten days after the same are sent, copies of all financial statements and reports which the Borrower sends to its stockholders, and within five days after the same are filed, copies of all financial statements and reports which the Borrower may make to, or file with, the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor or analogous Governmental Authority, and promptly after the same are issued, copies of all press releases issued by the Borrower; and
(b)
          
 
promptly, such additional financial and other information as any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
          
 
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available information and projections to the Lenders and the Issuing Lender materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders ( Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to any Borrower or its securities) (each, a ""). The Borrower hereby agrees that (a) it will use commercially reasonable efforts to identify that portion of the Borrower Materials that may be distributed to the Public Lenders and include a reasonably detailed term sheet in such information and that all of the foregoing that is to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC"; (b) by marking materials "PUBLIC," the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Issuing Lender and the Lenders to treat such materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower for purposes of United States federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information (as defined in Section 13.14), they shall be treated as set forth in Section ); (c) all materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor;" and (d) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor."
Borrower Materials
Platform
i.e.,
Public Lender
provided
however
13.14
 
Pay, discharge or otherwise satisfy at or before maturity or before they become delinquent, as the case may be, all its material obligations of whatever nature, except where the amount or validity thereof is currently being contested in good faith by
8.3
Payment of Obligations.
         
appropriate proceedings and reserves in conformity with GAAP with respect thereto have been provided on the books of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be.
 
Continue to engage in business of the same general type as conducted by it on the Closing Date; (b) preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence (except as could not in the aggregate be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect); (c) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business except as otherwise permitted pursuant to ; and (d) comply with all Contractual Obligations and Requirements of Law except to the extent that failure to comply therewith could not, in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
8.4
Conduct of Business and Maintenance of Existence.
         
subsection 9.4
 
Keep all property necessary in its business in good working order and condition except to the extent that failure to do so could not, in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies insurance on all its property in at least such amounts and against at least such risks as are adequate for conducting its business; and furnish to each Lender, upon written request, full information as to the insurance carried.
8.5
Maintenance of Property; Insurance.
         
 
Keep proper books of records and account in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP and all Requirements of Law shall be made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities; and permit representatives of any Lender (upon reasonable advance notice coordinated through the Administrative Agent) to visit and inspect any of its properties and examine and make abstracts from any of its books and records at any reasonable time and as often as may reasonably be desired and to discuss the business, operations, properties and financial and other condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries with officers and employees of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and with its independent certified public accountants.
8.6
Inspection of Property; Books and Records; Discussions.
         
 
Promptly give notice (unless available in the public filings or releases of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries) to the Administrative Agent and each Lender of:
8.7
Notices.
         
 
the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default;
(a)
          
 
any (i) default or event of default under any Contractual Obligation of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or (ii) litigation, investigation or proceeding which may exist at any time involving the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, which in either case, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and
(b)
          
 
the following events, as soon as possible and in any event within 30 days after the Borrower knows or has reason to know thereof:  (i) the occurrence or expected occurrence of any Reportable Event with respect to any Plan, a failure to make any required contribution to a Plan, the creation of any Lien in favor of the PBGC or a Plan or any withdrawal from, or the termination, Reorganization or Insolvency of, any Multiemployer Plan or (ii) the institution of proceedings or the taking of any other action by the PBGC or the Borrower or any Commonly Controlled Entity or any Multiemployer Plan with respect to the withdrawal from, or the terminating, Reorganization or Insolvency of,
(c)
          
any Plan, other than the termination of any Single Employer Plan pursuant to Section 4041(b) of ERISA where, in connection with any of the foregoing, the amount of liability the Borrower or any Commonly Controlled Entity could reasonably be expected to incur would be material.
 
Each notice pursuant to this subsection shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
8.8
         
Registration.
Within fourteen days after the Closing Date, which period may be extended by the Administrative Agent (for a period not to exceed fourteen days), the Term Loan Borrower shall file the information required pursuant to article 4 of the Exemption Regulation with the Dutch Central Bank (De Nederlandsche Bank).
 
SECTION 9 NEGATIVE COVENANTS
 
The Borrower hereby agrees that, so long as the Commitments (or any of them) remain in effect, any Letter of Credit remains outstanding, or any amount is owing to any Lender or the Administrative Agent hereunder or under any other Loan Documents, the Borrower shall not, and (except with respect to ) shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly:
subsection 9.1
 
9.1
Financial Covenants.
         
 
. Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as at the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower to exceed (i) 4.5 to 1.0 on or prior to December 31, 2007 and (ii) 3.5 to 1.0 thereafter.
(a)
          
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
 
. Permit the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio as at the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower to be less than 3.0 to 1.0.
(b)
          
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
 
Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except for:
9.2
Limitation on Liens.
         
 
Liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, that adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, in conformity with GAAP;
(a)
          
provided
 
carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 60 days or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
(b)
          
pledges or deposits in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation and deposits securing liability to insurance carriers under insurance or self-insurance arrangements;
(c)
          
 
deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(d)
          
 
easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary;
(e)
          
 
Liens in existence on the date hereof listed on , that no such Lien is spread to cover any additional property after the Closing Date and that the amount of Indebtedness secured thereby is not increased;
(f)
           
Schedule 9.2
provided
 
Liens securing Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries incurred to finance the acquisition of fixed or capital assets, that (i) such Liens shall be created substantially simultaneously with the acquisition of such fixed or capital assets, (ii) such Liens do not at any time encumber any property other than the property financed by such Indebtedness and (iii) the amount of Indebtedness secured thereby is not increased;
(g)
          
provided
 
Liens on the property or assets of a corporation which becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof, that (i) such Liens existed at the time such corporation became a Subsidiary and were not created in anticipation thereof, (ii) any such Lien is not spread to cover any property or assets of such corporation after the time such corporation becomes a Subsidiary, and (iii) the amount of Indebtedness secured thereby is not increased;
(h)
          
provided
 
Liens created pursuant to any Receivables Transaction permitted pursuant to ; and
(i)
           
subsection 9.3
 
Liens (not otherwise permitted hereunder) which secure obligations not exceeding (as to the Borrower and all Subsidiaries) $100,000,000 in aggregate amount at any time.
(j)
           
 
Create, issue, incur, assume, become liable in respect of or suffer to exist any Indebtedness pursuant to any Receivables Transaction, except for Indebtedness pursuant to all Receivables Transactions in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding 20% of Consolidated Tangible Assets.
9.3
Limitation on Indebtedness pursuant to Receivables Transactions.
         
 
Enter into any merger, consolidation or amalgamation, or liquidate, wind up or dissolve itself (or suffer any liquidation or dissolution),
9.4
Limitation on Fundamental Changes.
         
or convey, sell, lease, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of, all or substantially all of its property, business or assets, except:
 
any Subsidiary of the Borrower may be merged or consolidated with or into the Borrower ( that the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving corporation) or with or into any one or more wholly owned Subsidiaries of the Borrower ( that the wholly owned Subsidiary or Subsidiaries shall be the continuing or surviving corporation); that upon any such merger or consolidation of the Term Loan Borrower, the Borrower or the relevant Subsidiary or Subsidiaries shall assume, by documentation reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, all of the Obligations of the Term Loan Borrower.
(a)
          
provided
provided
provided
 
the Borrower or any wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower may sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any or all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Borrower or any other wholly owned Subsidiary, and, so long as no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would occur as a result thereof, the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower may sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any or all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to any non-wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower for fair market value;
(b)
          
 
any non-wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower may sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any or all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Borrower or any wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower for fair market value or may sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any or all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to any other non-wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower; and
(c)
          
 
the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower may be merged or consolidated with or into another Person; that the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving corporation and no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would occur as a result thereof (and, in the case of any such transaction involving a Subsidiary, such Subsidiary shall continue to be a Subsidiary or the Borrower shall have received fair market value therefor as determined by the Board of Directors of the Borrower); and that the Borrower may not be merged or consolidated with or into any Subsidiary.
(d)
          
provided
provided
further
 
Permit any Subsidiaries which are not Guarantors to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, assume or guaranty, or otherwise become or remain directly or indirectly liable with respect to, any Indebtedness (other than, with respect to the Term Loan Borrower, the Term Loans) in excess of 20% of Consolidated Tangible Assets in the aggregate at any time for all such Subsidiaries that are not Guarantors, except for (i) Indebtedness permitted by hereof and (ii) any Indebtedness of any Subsidiary of the Borrower owing to the Borrower or to any other Subsidiary of the Borrower.
9.5
Limitation on Indebtedness of Subsidiaries.
         
subsection 9.3
SECTION 10 EVENTS OF DEFAULT
 
If any of the following events shall occur and be continuing:
 
Either of the Borrowers shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan or any Reimbursement Obligation when due in accordance with the terms thereof or hereof; or the Borrowers shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan, or any fee or other amount payable hereunder, within five days after any such interest or other amount becomes due in accordance with the terms thereof or hereof; or
(a)
          
 
Any representation or warranty made or deemed made by either of the Borrowers herein or in any other Loan Document or which is contained in any certificate, document or financial or other statement furnished by it at any time under or in connection with this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect on or as of the date made or deemed made; or
(b)
          
 
The Borrower shall default in the observance or performance of any covenant contained in , or in ; or
(c)
          
subsections 8.4(b)
8.7(a)
Section 9
 
The Borrower shall default in the observance or performance of any agreement contained in ; or
(d)
          
Section 12
 
Either of the Borrowers or any Guarantor shall default in the observance or performance of any other agreement contained in this Agreement (other than as provided above in this Section) or any Guarantee, and such default described in this clause (e) shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days; or
(e)
          
 
The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall:  (i) default in any payment of principal of or interest of any Indebtedness (other than the Loans) or in the payment of any Guarantee Obligation, beyond the period of grace, if any, provided in the instrument or agreement under which such Indebtedness or Guarantee Obligation was created; or (ii) default in the observance or performance of any other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness or Guarantee Obligation or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event shall occur or condition exist, the effect of which default or other event or condition is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee Obligation (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity or such Guarantee Obligation to become payable; , , that no Default or Event of Default shall exist under this paragraph unless the aggregate amount of Indebtedness and/or Guarantee Obligations in respect of which any default or other event or condition referred to in this paragraph shall have occurred shall be equal to at least $100,000,000; or
(f)
           
provided
however
 
(i) The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall commence any case, proceeding or other action (A) under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, domestic
(g)
          
or foreign, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, examinership, court protection, reorganization or relief of debtors, seeking to have an order for relief entered with respect to it, or seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, winding-up, liquidation, dissolution, composition, examinership, court protection or other relief with respect to it or its debts, or (B) seeking appointment of an examiner, receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator or other similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its assets, or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (ii) there shall be commenced against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries any case, proceeding or other action of a nature referred to in clause (i) above which (A) results in the entry of an order for relief or any such adjudication or appointment or (B) remains undismissed, undischarged or unbonded for a period of 60 days; or (iii) there shall be commenced against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries any case, proceeding or other action seeking issuance of a warrant of attachment, execution, distraint or similar process against all or any substantial part of its assets which results in the entry of an order for any such relief which shall not have been vacated, discharged, or stayed or bonded pending appeal within 60 days from the entry thereof; or (iv) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall take any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any of the acts set forth in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) above; or (v) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall generally not or shall admit in writing its inability to, pay its debts as they become due; or
 
(i) Any Person shall engage in any "prohibited transaction" (as defined in Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code) involving any Plan, (ii) any "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived, shall exist with respect to any Plan or any Lien in favor of the PBGC or a Plan shall arise on the assets of the Borrower or any Commonly Controlled Entity, (iii) a Reportable Event shall occur with respect to, or proceedings shall commence to have a trustee appointed, or a trustee shall be appointed, to administer or to terminate, any Single Employer Plan, which Reportable Event or commencement of proceedings or appointment of a trustee is likely to result in the termination of such Plan for purposes of Title IV of ERISA, (iv) any Single Employer Plan shall terminate for purposes of Title IV of ERISA, (v) the Borrower or any Commonly Controlled Entity shall incur any liability in connection with a withdrawal from, or the Insolvency or Reorganization of, a Multiemployer Plan or (vi) any other event or condition shall occur or exist with respect to a Plan; and in each case in clauses (i) through (vi) above, such event or condition, together with all other such events or conditions, if any, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; or
(h)
          
 
Any one judgment or decree shall be entered against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries involving in the aggregate a liability (not paid or in excess of the amount recoverable by insurance) of $75,000,000 (net of any related tax benefit) or more, and such judgment or decree shall not have been vacated, discharged, stayed or bonded pending appeal within 60 days from the entry thereof; or
(i)
           
(i) Any Person or "group" (within the meaning of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) (A) shall have acquired beneficial ownership of 30% or more of any outstanding class of Capital Stock having ordinary voting power in the election of directors of the Borrower (other than Peter M. Nicholas and John E. Abele or any of their affiliated trust holdings) or (B) shall obtain the power (whether or not exercised) to elect a majority of the Borrower's directors; or (ii) the Board of Directors of the Borrower shall not consist of a majority of Continuing Directors; "" shall mean the directors of the Borrower on the Closing Date and each other director, if such other director's nomination for election to the Board of Directors of the Borrower is recommended by a majority of the then Continuing Directors;
(j)
           
Continuing Directors
 
then, and in any such event, (A) if such event is an Event of Default specified in clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (g) above with respect to the Borrowers, automatically the Commitments shall immediately terminate and the Loans hereunder (with accrued interest thereon) and all other amounts owing under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including, without limitation, all amounts of L/C Obligations, whether or not the beneficiaries of the then outstanding Letters of Credit shall have presented the documents required thereunder) shall immediately become due and payable, and (B) if such event is any other Event of Default, either or both of the following actions may be taken:  (i) with the consent of the Majority Lenders, the Administrative Agent may, or upon the request of the Majority Lenders, the Administrative Agent shall, by notice to the Borrower declare the Commitments to be terminated forthwith, whereupon the Commitments shall immediately terminate; and (ii) with the consent of the Majority Lenders, the Administrative Agent may, or upon the request of the Majority Lenders, the Administrative Agent shall, by notice to the Borrowers, declare the Loans hereunder (with accrued interest thereon) and all other amounts owing under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including, without limitation, all amounts of L/C Obligations, whether or not the beneficiaries of the then outstanding Letters of Credit shall have presented the documents required thereunder) to be due and payable forthwith, whereupon the same shall immediately become due and payable. In the case of each Letter of Credit with respect to which presentment for honor shall not have occurred at the time of an acceleration pursuant to this paragraph, the Borrower shall at such time deposit in cash collateral accounts opened by the Administrative Agent an amount (in the currency in which such Letter of Credit is denominated) equal to the then undrawn and unexpired amount of such Letter of Credit. Amounts held in such cash collateral account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to the payment of drafts drawn under such Letters of Credit, and the unused portion thereof after all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon, if any, shall be applied to repay other obligations of the Borrowers hereunder and under the other Loan Documents. After all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon, all Reimbursement Obligations shall have been satisfied and all other obligations of the Borrowers hereunder and under the other Loan Documents shall have been paid in full (or in the event that the acceleration that required the funding of such cash collateral account is rescinded by the Lenders), the balance, if any, in such cash collateral account shall be returned to the Borrower (or such other Person as may be lawfully entitled thereto).
SECTION 11 THE AGENTS
 
Each Lender hereby irrevocably designates and appoints the Administrative Agent as the agent of such Lender under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and each Lender irrevocably authorizes the Administrative Agent, in such capacity, to take such action on its behalf under the provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and to exercise such powers and perform such duties as are expressly delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, together with such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary elsewhere in this Agreement, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or responsibilities, except those expressly set forth herein, or any fiduciary relationship with any Lender, and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into this Agreement or any other Loan Document or otherwise exist against the Administrative Agent.
11.1
Appointment.
       
 
The Administrative Agent may execute any of its duties under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents by or through agents or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to advice of counsel concerning all matters pertaining to such duties. The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agents or attorneys in-fact selected by it with reasonable care.
11.2
Delegation of Duties.
       
 
Neither any Agent nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates shall be (i) liable for any action lawfully taken or omitted to be taken by it or such Person under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document (except for its or such Person's own gross negligence or willful misconduct) or (ii) responsible in any manner to any of the Lenders for any recitals, statements, representations or warranties made by the Borrowers or any officer thereof contained in this Agreement or any other Loan Document or in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by such Agent under or in connection with, this Agreement or any other Loan Document or for the value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or for any failure of the Borrowers to perform their obligations hereunder or thereunder. No Agent shall be under any obligation to any Lender to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or performance of any of the agreements contained in, or conditions of, this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or to inspect the properties, books or records of the Borrowers.
11.3
Exculpatory Provisions.
       
 
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any Note, writing, resolution, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, telecopy, telex or teletype message, statement, order or other document or conversation believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons and upon advice and statements of legal counsel (including, without limitation, counsel to the Borrowers), independent accountants and other experts selected by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent may deem and treat the payee of any Note as the owner thereof for all purposes unless a written notice of assignment, negotiation or transfer thereof shall have been filed with the Administrative Agent. The Administrative
11.4
Reliance by Administrative Agent.
       
Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under this Agreement or any other Loan Document unless it shall first receive such advice or concurrence of the Majority Lenders as it deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Lenders against any and all liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action. The Administrative Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents in accordance with a request of the Majority Lenders, and such request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the Lenders and all future holders of the Loans.
 
The Administrative Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default hereunder unless the Administrative Agent has received notice from a Lender, the Borrower or the Term Loan Borrower referring to this Agreement, describing such Default or Event of Default and stating that such notice is a "notice of default". In the event that the Administrative Agent receives such a notice, the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall take such action with respect to such Default or Event of Default as shall be reasonably directed by the Majority Lenders; that unless and until the Administrative Agent shall have received such directions, the Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Default or Event of Default as it shall deem advisable in the best interests of the Lenders.
11.5
Notice of Default.
                       
provided
 
Each Lender expressly acknowledges that neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates has made any representations or warranties to it and that no act by the Administrative Agent hereinafter taken, including any review of the affairs of the Borrower, shall be deemed to constitute any representation or warranty by the Administrative Agent to any Lender. Each Lender represents to the Administrative Agent that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Borrowers and made its own decision to make its Loans hereunder and enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also represents that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and to make such investigation as it deems necessary to inform itself as to the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Borrowers. Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly required to be furnished to the Lenders by the Administrative Agent hereunder, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty or responsibility to provide any Lender with any credit or other information concerning the business, operations, property, condition (financial or otherwise), prospects or creditworthiness of the Borrowers which may come into the possession of the Administrative Agent or any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates.
11.6
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders.
                       
The Lenders agree to indemnify the Administrative Agent (or sub-agent), in its capacity, any Issuing Lender, in its capacity, and any Related Party acting for the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent) or any Issuing Lender in connection with such capacity (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrowers and without limiting the obligation of the Borrowers to do so), ratably according to their respective Aggregate Exposure Percentages in effect on the date on which indemnification is sought (or, if indemnification is sought after the date upon which the Commitments shall have terminated and the Loans shall have been paid in full, ratably in accordance with such Aggregate Exposure Percentages immediately prior to such date), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind whatsoever which may at any time (including, without limitation, at any time following the payment of the Loans) be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent), any Issuing Lender or such Related Party in any way relating to or arising out of, the Commitments, this Agreement, any of the other Loan Documents or any documents contemplated by or referred to herein or therein or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or any action taken or omitted by the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent), any Issuing Lender or such Related Party under or in connection with any of the foregoing; that no Lender shall be liable for the payment of any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements which are found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrative Agent (or sub-agent), any Issuing Lender or any Related Party acting for the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent) or any Issuing Lender in connection with such capacity. The agreements in this subsection shall survive the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
11.7
Indemnification.
                       
provided
 
The Administrative Agent and its Affiliates may make loans to, accept deposits from and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrowers as though the Administrative Agent were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents. With respect to the Loans made by it and with respect to any Letter of Credit issued or participated in by it, the Administrative Agent shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents as any Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and the terms "Lender" and "Lenders" shall include the Administrative Agent in its individual capacity.
11.8
Administrative Agent in Its Individual Capacity.
                       
 
The Administrative Agent may resign as Administrative Agent upon 10 days' notice to the Lenders. If the Administrative Agent shall resign as Administrative Agent under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, then the Majority Lenders shall appoint from among the Lenders a successor agent for the Lenders, which successor agent ( that it shall have been approved by the Borrower), shall succeed to the rights, powers and duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder. Upon the earlier of (i) the 10 day period following the Administrative Agent's notice of resignation to the Lenders and (ii) the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The term "Administrative Agent" shall
11.9
Successor Administrative Agent.
                       
provided
mean such successor agent, and the former Administrative Agent's rights, powers and duties as Administrative Agent shall be terminated, without any other or further act or deed on the part of such former Administrative Agent or any of the parties to this Agreement or any holders of the Loans. After any retiring Administrative Agent's resignation as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
Section 11
 
Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this section shall also constitute its resignation as Issuing Lender and Swingline Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Issuing Lender and Swingline Lender, (b) the retiring Issuing Lender and Swingline Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (c) the successor Issuing Lender shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to the retiring Issuing Lender to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring Issuing Lender with respect to such Letters of Credit.
 
None of the Arrangers, the Bookrunners, the Syndication Agent or the Documentation Agents shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement other than those applicable to all Lenders as such. Without limiting the foregoing, none of the Arrangers, the Bookrunners, the Syndication Agent or the Documentation Agents shall have or be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship with any Lender. Each Lender acknowledges that it has not relied, and will not rely, on the Arrangers, the Bookrunners, the Syndication Agent or the Documentation Agents in deciding to enter into this Agreement or in taking or not taking any action hereunder.
11.10
The Arrangers, the Bookrunners, the Syndication Agent and the Documentation Agents.
                
 
SECTION 12 GUARANTEE
 
12.1
Guarantee.
                       
 
The Borrower hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and their respective successors, endorsees, transferees and assigns, the prompt and complete payment and performance by the Term Loan Borrower and the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers when due (whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) of the Obligations.
(a)
                                 
 
No payment or payments made by the Borrower or any other Person or received or collected by the Administrative Agent or any Lender from the Borrower or any other Person by virtue of any action or proceeding or any set-off or appropriation or application, at any time or from time to time, in reduction of or in payment of the Obligations shall be deemed to modify, reduce, release or otherwise affect the liability of the Borrower hereunder which shall, notwithstanding any such payment or payments, remain liable hereunder for the Obligations until the Obligations are paid in full and the Commitments are terminated.
(b)
                                
The Borrower agrees that whenever, at any time, or from time to time, it shall make any payment to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on account of its liability hereunder, it will notify the Administrative Agent and such Lender in writing that such payment is made under this Section for such purpose.
(c)
                                 
 
Notwithstanding any payment or payments made by the Borrower hereunder, or any set-off or application of funds of the Borrower by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, the Borrower shall not be entitled to be subrogated to any of the rights of the Administrative Agent or any Lender against the Term Loan Borrower or the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers or against any collateral security or guarantee or right of offset held by the Administrative Agent or any Lender for the payment of the Obligations, nor shall the Borrower seek or be entitled to seek any contribution or reimbursement from the Term Loan Borrower or the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers in respect of payments made by the Borrower hereunder, until all amounts owing to the Administrative Agent and the Local Currency Lenders by the Term Loan Borrower and the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers on account of the Obligations are paid in full and the Commitments are terminated. If any amount shall be paid to the Borrower on account of such subrogation rights at any time when all of the Obligations shall not have been paid in full, such amount shall be held by the Borrower in trust for the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, segregated from other funds of the Borrower, and shall, forthwith upon receipt by the Borrower, be turned over to the Administrative Agent in the exact form received by the Borrower (duly indorsed by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent, if required), to be applied against the Obligations, whether matured or unmatured, in such order as Administrative Agent may determine. The provisions of this paragraph shall continue to be effective after the termination of this Agreement, the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of the Commitments.
12.2
No Subrogation.
                       
 
The Borrower shall remain obligated hereunder notwithstanding that, without any reservation of rights against the Borrower, and without notice to or further assent by the Borrower, any demand for payment of any of the Obligations made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender may be rescinded by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, and any of the Obligations continued, and the Obligations, or the liability of any other party upon or for any part thereof, or any collateral security or guarantee therefor or right of offset with respect thereto, may, from time to time, in whole or in part, be renewed, extended, amended, modified, accelerated, compromised, waived, surrendered or released by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, and any Loan Documents and any other documents executed and delivered in connection therewith may be amended, modified, supplemented or terminated, in whole or in part, in accordance with the provisions thereof as the Administrative Agent (or the requisite Lenders, as the case may be) may deem advisable from time to time, and any collateral security, guarantee or right of offset at any time held by the Administrative Agent or any Lender for the payment of the Obligations may be sold, exchanged, waived, surrendered or released. None of the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall have any obligation to protect, secure, perfect or insure any Lien at any time held by it as security for the Obligations or for this Agreement or any property subject thereto. When making any demand hereunder against the Borrower, the Administrative Agent or any Lender may, but shall be under no obligation to, make a similar demand on the Term Loan Borrower, the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers or any other guarantor, and any failure by the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make any such demand or to collect any payments from the Term Loan Borrower, a
12.3
Amendments, etc with respect to the Obligations; Waiver of Rights.
                       
Foreign Subsidiary Borrower or any such other guarantor or any release of the Term Loan Borrower, a Foreign Subsidiary Borrower or such other guarantor shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligations or liabilities hereunder, and shall not impair or affect the rights and remedies, express or implied, or as a matter of law, of the Administrative Agent or any Lender against the Borrower. For the purposes hereof "demand" shall include the commencement and continuance of any legal proceedings.
 
The Borrower waives any and all notice of the creation, renewal, extension or accrual of any of the Obligations and notice of or proof of reliance by the Administrative Agent or any Lender upon this Agreement or acceptance of this Agreement; the Obligations, and any of them, shall conclusively be deemed to have been created, contracted or incurred, or renewed, extended, amended or waived, in reliance upon this Agreement; and all dealings between the Term Loan Borrower or the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers and the Borrower, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, on the other, shall likewise be conclusively presumed to have been had or consummated in reliance upon this Agreement. The Borrower waives diligence, presentment, protest, demand for payment and notice of default or nonpayment to or upon the Term Loan Borrower or the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers and the Borrower with respect to the Obligations. This shall be construed as a continuing, absolute and unconditional guarantee of payment without regard to (a) the validity, regularity or enforceability of this Agreement, any other Loan Document, any of the Obligations or any other collateral security therefor or guarantee or right of offset with respect thereto at any time or from time to time held by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, (b) any defense, set-off or counterclaim (other than a defense of payment or performance) which may at any time be available to or be asserted by the Term Loan Borrower or the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers against the Administrative Agent or any Lender, (c) any law, regulation, decree or order of any jurisdiction, or any other event, affecting the Obligations or any Lender's rights with respect thereto, including, without limitation:  (i) the application of any such law, regulation, decree or order, including any prior approval, that would prevent the exchange of a non-Dollar currency for Dollars or the remittance of funds outside of such jurisdiction or the unavailability of Dollars in any legal exchange market in such jurisdiction in accordance with normal commercial practice; or (ii) a declaration of banking moratorium or any suspension of payments by banks in such jurisdiction or the imposition by such jurisdiction or any governmental authority thereof of any moratorium on the required rescheduling or restructuring of, or required approval of payments on, any indebtedness in such jurisdiction; or (iii) any expropriation, confiscation, nationalization or requisition by such country or any governmental authority that directly or indirectly deprives the companies in such jurisdiction of any payment obligation under the Obligations; or (iv) any war (whether or not declared), insurrection, revolution, hostile act, civil strife or similar events occurring in such jurisdiction that has the same effect as the events described in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above (in each of the cases contemplated in clauses (i) through (iv) above, to the extent occurring or existing on or at any time after the date of this Agreement), or (d) any other circumstance whatsoever (with or without notice to or knowledge of the Term Loan Borrower or the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers or the Borrower) which constitutes, or might be construed to constitute, an equitable or legal discharge of the Term Loan Borrower or the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers for the Obligations, or of the Borrower under this , in bankruptcy or in any other instance. When pursuing its rights and remedies hereunder against the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and any Lender may, but shall be under no obligation to,
12.4
Guarantee Absolute and Unconditional.
                       
Section 12
Section 12
pursue such rights and remedies as it may have against the Term Loan Borrower or the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers or any other Person or against any collateral security or guarantee for the Obligations or any right of offset with respect thereto, and any failure by the Administrative Agent or any Lender to pursue such other rights or remedies or to collect any payments from the Borrower or any such other Person or to realize upon any such collateral security or guarantee or to exercise any such right of offset, or any release of the Term Loan Borrower or the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers or any such other Person or of any such collateral security, guarantee or right of offset, shall not relieve the Borrower of any liability hereunder, and shall not impair or affect the rights and remedies, whether express, implied or available as a matter of law, of the Administrative Agent or any Lender against the Borrower. This shall remain in full force and effect and be binding in accordance with and to the extent of its terms upon the Borrower and its successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and their respective successors, endorsees, transferees and assigns, until all the Obligations and the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement shall have been satisfied by payment in full and the Commitments shall be terminated, notwithstanding that from time to time during the term of this Agreement the Term Loan Borrower or the Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers may be free from any Obligations.
Section 12
 
This shall continue to be effective, or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of any of the Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored or returned by the Administrative Agent or any Lender upon the insolvency, bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization of the Borrower or upon or as a result of the appointment of a receiver, intervenor or conservator of, or trustee or similar officer for, the Borrower or any substantial part of its property, or otherwise, all as though such payments had not been made.
12.5
Reinstatement.
                       
Section 12
 
The Borrower hereby agrees that all payments required to be made by it hereunder will be made to the Administrative Agent without set-off or counterclaim in accordance with the terms of the Obligations, including, without limitation, in the currency in which payment is due, that if a payment is due in a currency other than Dollars and/or at a place other than the United States, and such payment is not made as and when agreed, the Borrower will, upon the Administrative Agent's request, either (i) make payment in such non- Dollar currency and at the place where such payment is payable or (ii) pay the Administrative Agent in Dollars at the Administrative Agent's office referred in . In the event of a payment pursuant to clause (ii) above, the Borrower will pay the Administrative Agent the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of such payment on the date the Borrower makes such payment.
12.6
Payments.
                       
provided
Subsection 13.2
 
For all purposes of this , the term "Lenders" shall be deemed to include Local Currency Lenders.
12.7
"Lenders".
                       
Section 12
 
SECTION 13 MISCELLANEOUS
 
13.1
Amendments and Waivers.
                       
 
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this , neither this Agreement nor any other Loan Document, nor any terms hereof or thereof may be amended,
(a)
                                 
subsection 13.1
supplemented or modified except in accordance with the provisions of this subsection. The Majority Lenders may, or, with the written consent of the Majority Lenders, the Administrative Agent may, from time to time, (a) enter into with the Borrowers written amendments, supplements or modifications hereto and to the other Loan Documents for the purpose of adding any provisions to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or changing in any manner the rights of the Lenders or of the Borrowers hereunder or thereunder or (b) waive, on such terms and conditions as the Majority Lenders or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, may specify in such instrument, any of the requirements of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or any Default or Event of Default and its consequences; , , that no such waiver and no such amendment, supplement or modification shall (i) reduce the amount or extend the scheduled date of maturity of any Loan, extend the scheduled date, or reduce the amount, of any amortization payment in respect of any Term Loan or reduce the stated rate or amount of any interest or fee payable hereunder or extend the scheduled date of any payment thereof or increase the amount or extend the expiration date of any Lender's Term Loan Commitment, Multicurrency Commitment, Revolving Credit Commitment, Swingline Commitment or L/C Commitment or modify the pro rata distribution of payments, proceeds or fees payable to the Lenders, in each case without the consent of each Lender affected thereby, (ii) amend, modify or waive any provision of this subsection or reduce the percentages specified in the definitions, of Majority Lenders or Majority Multicurrency Lenders, or consent to the assignment or transfer by the Term Loan Borrower or the Borrower of any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or release, subordinate or otherwise materially limit the Borrower's liability with respect to the guarantee set forth in , in each case without the written consent of all the Lenders, (iii) amend, modify or waive any provision of without the written consent of the then Administrative Agent or (iv) waive any condition in without the written consent of the Majority Revolving Lenders. Any such waiver and any such amendment, supplement or modification shall apply equally to each of the Lenders and shall be binding upon the Borrowers, the Lenders, the Administrative Agent and all future holders of the Loans. In the case of any waiver, the Borrowers, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, and any Default or Event of Default waived shall be deemed to be cured and not continuing; no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
provided
however
Section 12
Section 11
subsection 7.2
 
In addition to amendments effected pursuant to the foregoing paragraph (a), (i) may be amended to change administrative information contained therein with the approval of the Majority Multicurrency Lenders, upon execution and delivery by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent of a written amendment providing for such amendment, (ii) additional freely-convertible euro currencies may be added as Available Foreign Currencies, upon execution and delivery by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Majority Multicurrency Lenders of an amendment providing for such addition and (iii) this Agreement may be amended by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent to implement increases in the Revolving Credit Commitments pursuant to .
(b)
                                
Schedule II
Section 2.20
 
The Administrative Agent shall give prompt written notice to each Lender of any amendment effected pursuant to .
(c)
                                 
subsection 13.1(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of this , any Local Currency Facility may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified in accordance with its terms so long as after giving effect thereto either (x) such Local Currency Facility ceases to be an "Local Currency Facility" and the Borrower so notifies the Administrative Agent or (y) the Local Currency Facility continues to meet the requirements of a Local Currency Facility set forth herein.
(d)
                                
subsection 13.1
 
13.2
Notices.
                       
 
. All notices, requests and demands to or upon the respective parties hereto to be effective shall be in writing (including by facsimile transmission) and, unless otherwise expressly provided herein, shall be deemed to have been duly given or made (a) in the case of delivery by hand, when delivered, (b) in the case of delivery by mail, three days after being deposited in the mails, postage prepaid, or (c) in the case of delivery by facsimile transmission, when sent and receipt has been confirmed, addressed as follows in the case of the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent, and as set forth in in the case of the other parties hereto, or to such other address as may be hereafter notified by the respective parties hereto:
(a)
                                 
General
Schedule I
 
If to the Borrower:
 
Boston Scientific Corporation
One Boston Scientific Place
Natick, Massachusetts  01760
Attention:   Lawrence C. Best
Executive Vice President, Finance & Administration
and Chief Financial Officer
Fax:  508-650-8951
 
with a copy to:
 
Paul Sandman
Executive Vice President, General Counsel
Fax:  508-650-8960
 
If to the Term Loan Borrower:
 
BSC International Holdings Limited
Gaetano Martinolaan 50
6229 GS
Maastricht, The Netherlands
with a copy to:
 
Boston Scientific Corporation
One Boston Scientific Place
Natick, Massachusetts  01760
Attention:   Paul Sandman
Executive Vice President, General Counsel
Fax:  508-650-8960
 
If to the Administrative Agent (for payments and notices of borrowings, etc.):
 
Bank of America, N.A.
2001 Clayton Road
CA4-702-02-25
Concord, CA  94520
Attn:  Jesse Phalen
Phone:  925-675-8395
Fax:  888-969-9228
Email:  jesse.c.phalen@bankofamerica.com
 
Wiring Instructions: 
 
Bank of America, N.A.
Attn:  Credit Services/Jesse Phalen
Ref:  Boston Scientific Corp
 
(for U.S. Dollar)
Bank of America, N.A., New York
ABA# 026-009-593
Acct# 3750836479
 
(for euro)
Bank of America, London
Acct# 65280019
Swift Address:  BOFAGB22
 
(for Pound Sterling)
Bank of America, London
Acct# 65280027
London Sort Code:  16-50-50
Swift Address:  BOFAGB22
 
(for Japanese Yen)
Bank of America, Tokyo
Acct# 606490661046
Swift Address:  BOFAJPJX
 
(for Australian Dollar)
Bank of America Australia Ltd., Sydney
Acct# 520190661017
Swift Address:  BOFAAUSX
 
(for Canadian Dollar)
Bank of America Canada, Toronto
Acct# 65003220
Swift Address:  BOFACATT
 
(for Singapore Dollar)
Bank of America, Singapore
Acct# 621290661054
Swift Address:  BOFASG2X
 
(for Swiss Franc)
Bank of America, Geneva
Acct# 601490661012
Swift Address:  BOFACH2X
 
If to the Administrative Agent (for other notices):
 
Bank of America, N.A.
1455 Market Street
Mail Code:  CA5-701-05-19
San Francisco, CA  94103
Attn:  Kevin Ahart
Phone:  415-436-2750
Fax:  415-503-5000
Email:  kevin.ahart@bankofamerica.com
 
If to the Swing Line Lender Agent:
Bank of America, N.A.
2001 Clayton Road
CA4-702-02-25
Concord, CA  94520
Attn:  Jesse Phalen
Phone:  925-675-8395
Fax:  888-969-9228
Email:  jesse.c.phalen@bankofamerica.com
For Letters of Credit, if to the Issuing Lender:
 
Bank of America, N.A.
1 Fleet Way
PA6-580-02-30
Scranton, PA 18507
Attn:  Brian Gibbons
Phone:  570-330-4319
Fax:  570-330-4187
Email:  brian.j.gibbons@bankofamerica.com
 
with a copy to:
 
Bank of America, N.A.
2001 Clayton Road
CA4-702-02-25
Concord, CA  94520
Attn:  Jesse Phalen
Phone:  925-675-8395
Fax:  888-969-9228
Email:  jesse.c.phalen@bankofamerica.com
 
that any notice, request or demand to or upon the Administrative Agent or the Lenders pursuant to , , , , , or shall not be effective until received.
provided
subsection 2.5
2.9
2.12
2.17
2.18
3.2
 
Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the Issuing Lender hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or the Issuing Lender pursuant to , , and if such Lender or the Issuing Lender, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Section by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
(b)
                                
provided
Section 2
3
4
5
provided
 
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
. THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE."  THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates (collectively, the "") have any liability to either of the Borrowers, any Lender, the Issuing Lender or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's, the Term Loan Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrowers, any Lender, the Issuing Lender or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
(c)
                                 
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
 
No failure to exercise and no delay in exercising, on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Lender, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
13.3
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies.
                       
 
All representations and warranties made hereunder, in the other Loan Documents and in any document, certificate or statement delivered pursuant hereto or in connection herewith shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of the Loans hereunder.
13.4
Survival of Representations and Warranties.
                       
 
The Borrower agrees (a) to pay or reimburse each of the Arrangers and the Administrative Agent for all their reasonable and documented out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with the development, preparation and execution of, and any amendment, supplement or modification to, this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and any other documents prepared in connection herewith or therewith, and the consummation and administration of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, including, without limitation, the reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of outside counsel (including local counsel) to the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, (b) to pay or reimburse each Lender, the Arrangers and the Administrative Agent for all its costs and expenses incurred in connection with the enforcement or preservation of any rights under this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and any such other documents, including, without limitation, the documented fees and disbursements of counsel (including the allocated fees and expenses of in-house
13.5
Payment of Expenses and Taxes.
                       
counsel) to each Lender and of counsel to the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, , that in connection with any workout or restructuring, the Borrower shall pay the fees and disbursements of (i) one U.S., one Irish and one Dutch counsel for the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders pursuant to this clause (b) and (ii) one counsel to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in the jurisdiction of each Foreign Subsidiary Borrower pursuant to this clause (b), (c) to pay, indemnify, and hold each Lender and the Administrative Agent and each of their affiliates and their respective officer, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an "") harmless from, any and all recording and filing fees and any and all liabilities with respect to, or resulting from any delay in paying, stamp, excise and other similar taxes, if any, which may be payable or determined to be payable in connection with the execution and delivery of, or consummation or administration of any of the transactions contemplated by, or any amendment, supplement or modification of, or any waiver or consent under or in respect of, this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and any such other documents, and (d) to pay, indemnify, and hold each indemnified party harmless from and against any and all other liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever with respect to the Transactions (or any transactions related thereto), and the execution, delivery, enforcement, performance and administration of this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and such other documents, including, without limitation, any of the foregoing relating to the violation of, noncompliance with or liability under, any Environmental Law applicable to the operations of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any of the Properties (all the foregoing in this clause (d), collectively, the ""), that the Borrower shall have no obligation hereunder to any indemnified party with respect to indemnified liabilities arising from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such indemnified party determined in a court of competent jurisdiction in a final non-appealable judgment. The agreements in this subsection shall survive repayment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
provided
indemnified party
indemnified liabilities
provided
 
13.6
Successors and Assigns; Participations and Assignments.
                       
 
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrowers, the Lenders, the Administrative Agent and their respective successors and assigns, except that neither the Borrower nor the Term Loan Borrower may assign or transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of each Lender.
(a)
                                 
 
Any Lender, other than a Conduit Lender, may, in the ordinary course of its commercial banking business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time sell to one or more banks or other entities ("") participating interests in any Loan owing to such Lender, any Commitment of such Lender or any other interest of such Lender hereunder and under the other Loan Documents. In the event of any such sale by a Lender of a participating interest to a Participant, such Lender's obligations under this Agreement to the other parties to this Agreement shall remain unchanged, such Lender shall remain solely responsible for the performance thereof, such Lender shall remain the holder of any such Loan for all purposes under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. No Lender shall be entitled to create in favor of any Participant, in the participation agreement pursuant to which
(b)
                                
Participants
such Participant's participating interest shall be created or otherwise, any right to vote on, consent to or approve any matter relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document except for those specified in clauses (i) and (ii) of the proviso to . The Borrowers agree that if amounts outstanding under this Agreement are due or unpaid, or shall have been declared or shall have become due and payable upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, each Participant shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, be deemed to have the right of setoff in respect of its participating interest in amounts owing under this Agreement to the same extent as if the amount of its participating interest were owing directly to it as a Lender under this Agreement, that, in purchasing such participating interest, such Participant shall be deemed to have agreed to share with the Lenders the proceeds thereof as provided in as fully as if it were a Lender hereunder. The Borrowers also agree that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and with respect to its participation in the Commitments and the Loans outstanding from time to time as if it was a Lender; that, in the case of , such Participant shall have complied with the requirements of said subsection, and , , that no Participant shall be entitled to receive any greater amount pursuant to any such subsection than the transferor Lender would have been entitled to receive in respect of the amount of the participation transferred by such transferor Lender to such Participant had no such transfer occurred.
subsection 13.1(a)
provided
subsection 13.7(a)
subsections 3.9
3.10
3.11
provided
subsection 3.10
provided
further
 
Any Lender, other than a Conduit Lender, may, in the ordinary course of its commercial banking business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time and from time to time, assign (i) to any Lender or any Lender Affiliate with the consent (in each case, not to be unreasonably withheld) of the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Lender (in the case of assignments of Revolving Commitments) or (ii) with the consent of the Borrowers (unless a Default or an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing), the Administrative Agent and Issuing Lender (in the case of assignments of Revolving Commitments) (which consent in each case shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned), to an additional bank, financial institution, or other entity (an "") all or any part of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance, substantially in the form of , executed by such Assignee, such assigning Lender (and, in the case of an Assignee that is not a Lender or a Lender Affiliate, by the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Lender (in the case of assignments of Loans other than Term Loans)) and delivered to the Administrative Agent for its acceptance and recording in the Register, that, except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or a Lender Affiliate or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitments or Loans under any Facility, the amount of the Commitments or Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 with respect to any Facility (or such lesser amount as may be agreed to by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent). Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date determined pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the Assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder with Commitments as set forth therein, and (y) the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lender's rights and obligations under
(c)
                                 
Assignee
Exhibit I
provided
this Agreement, such assigning Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the indemnity and expense reimbursement provisions in the Loan Documents arising out of the period prior to the assignment). Each assignment by a Lender of any portion of its Revolving Credit Commitment shall be accompanied by assignment by such Lender to the same Assignee of the same percentage of such Lender's Multicurrency Commitment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Conduit Lender may assign at any time to its designating Lender hereunder without the consent of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent any or all of the Loans it may have funded hereunder and pursuant to its designation agreement and without regard to the limitations set forth in the first sentence of this .
subsection 13.6(c)
 
The Administrative Agent, on behalf of the Borrowers, shall maintain at the address of the Administrative Agent referred to in a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register (the "") for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitments of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender from time to time. The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, in the absence of manifest error, and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as the owner of a Loan or other obligation hereunder as the owner thereof for all purposes of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, notwithstanding any notice to the contrary. Any assignment of any Loan or other obligation hereunder not evidenced by a Note shall be effective only upon appropriate entries with respect thereto being made in the Register. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrowers or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
(d)
                                
subsection 13.2
Register
 
Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an Assignee (and, in the case of an Assignee that is not then a Lender or a Lender Affiliate, by the Term Loan Borrower (if required) (in the case of assignments of Term Loans) or the Borrower (if required) (in the case of all other Types of Loans) and the Administrative Agent) together with payment to the Administrative Agent of a registration and processing fee of $4,000, the Administrative Agent shall (i) promptly accept such Assignment and Acceptance and (ii) on the effective date determined pursuant thereto record the information contained therein in the Register and give notice of such acceptance and recordation to the Lenders and the Borrowers.
(e)
                                 
 
The Borrowers authorize each Lender to disclose to any Participant or Assignee (each, a "") and any prospective Transferee, subject to the provisions of , any and all financial information in such Lender's possession concerning the Borrower and its Affiliates which has been delivered to such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or which has been delivered to such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower in connection with such Lender's credit evaluation of such Borrower and its Affiliates prior to becoming a party to this Agreement.
(f)
                                   
Transferee
subsection 13.14
 
For avoidance of doubt, the parties to this Agreement acknowledge that the provisions of this subsection concerning assignments of Loans and Notes relate only to absolute assignments and that such provisions do not prohibit assignments creating security interests, including, without limitation, any pledge or assignment by a Lender of any Loan or Note to any Federal Reserve Bank in accordance with applicable law.
(g)
                                
13.7
Adjustments; Set-off.
                       
 
If any Lender (a "") shall at any time receive any payment of all or part of its Loans or the Reimbursement Obligations owing to it (or any participation therein arising pursuant to ) then due and owing, or interest thereon, or receive any collateral in respect thereof (whether voluntarily or involuntarily, by set-off, pursuant to events or proceedings of the nature referred to in , or otherwise), in a greater proportion than any such payment to or collateral received by any other Lender (other than to the extent expressly provided herein), if any, in respect of such other Lender's Loans or the Reimbursement Obligations owing to it (or any participation therein arising pursuant to ) then due and owing, or interest thereon, such benefited Lender shall purchase for cash from the other Lenders a participating interest in such portion of each such other Lender's Loan or the Reimbursement Obligations owing to it, or shall provide such other Lenders with the benefits of any such collateral, or the proceeds thereof, as shall be necessary to cause such benefited Lender to share the excess payment or benefits of such collateral or proceeds ratably with each of the Lenders; , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment or benefits is thereafter recovered from such benefited Lender, such purchase shall be rescinded, and the purchase price and benefits returned, to the extent of such recovery, but without interest.
(a)
                                 
benefited Lender
subsection 13.15
subsection 10(g)
subsection 13.15
provided
however
 
In addition to any rights and remedies of the Lenders provided by law, each Lender shall have the right, without prior notice to the Borrowers, any such notice being expressly waived by the Borrowers to the extent permitted by applicable law, upon any amount becoming due and payable by the Borrowers hereunder (whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) to set-off and appropriate and apply against such amount any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final), in any currency, and any other credits, indebtedness or claims, in any currency, in each case whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, at any time held or owing by such Lender or any Affiliate, branch or agency thereof to or for the credit or the account of the Borrowers. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent after any such set-off and application made by such Lender, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application.
(b)
                                
provided
 
This Agreement may be executed by one or more of the parties to this Agreement on any number of separate counterparts (including by facsimile transmission), and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument. A set of the copies of this Agreement signed by all the parties shall be lodged with the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent.
13.8
Counterparts.
                       
 
Any provision of this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
13.9
Severability.
                       
 
This Agreement and the other Loan Documents represent the agreement of the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders with respect to the subject matter hereof, and there are no promises, undertakings, representations or warranties by the
13.10
Integration.
                
Administrative Agent or any Lender relative to subject matter hereof not expressly set forth or referred to herein or in the other Loan Documents.
 
13.11
GOVERNING LAW. THIS AGREEMENT AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
                
 
13.12
Submission To Jurisdiction; Waivers; Agent and Attorney in Fact for Term Loan Borrower.
                
 
Each of the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally:
(a)
                                 
 
submits for itself and its property in any legal action or proceeding relating to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which it is a party, or for recognition and enforcement of any judgment in respect thereof, to the non-exclusive general jurisdiction of the Courts of the State of New York, the courts of the United States of America for the Southern District of New York, and appellate courts from any thereof;
(i)
                                    
 
consents that any such action or proceeding may be brought in such courts and waives any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the venue of any such action or proceeding in any such court or that such action or proceeding was brought in an inconvenient court and agrees not to plead or claim the same;
(ii)
                                 
 
agrees that service of process in any such action or proceeding may be effected by mailing a copy thereof by registered or certified mail (or any substantially similar form of mail), postage prepaid, to the Borrower at its address set forth in or at such other address of which the Administrative Agent shall have been notified pursuant thereto;
(iii)
                              
subsection 13.2
 
agrees that nothing herein shall affect the right to effect service of process in any other manner permitted by law or shall limit the right to sue in any other jurisdiction; and
(iv)
                             
 
waives, to the maximum extent not prohibited by law, any right it may have to claim or recover in any legal action or proceeding referred to in this subsection any special, exemplary, punitive or consequential damages.
(v)
                                
 
The Term Loan Borrower hereby appoints the Borrower (and the Borrower hereby consents to such appointment) as the agent of the Term Loan Borrower to receive for and on behalf of the Term Loan Borrower service of process in any action or proceeding described in clause (a) above and authorizes and directs the Borrower to accept such process on the Term Loan Borrower's behalf, and, as an alternative to such service on the Borrower, agrees that service of process in any such action or proceeding may be effected by mailing a copy thereof by registered or certified mail (or any substantially similar form of mail), postage prepaid, to the
(b)
                                
Term Loan Borrower at its address set forth in or at such other address of which the Administrative Agent shall have been notified pursuant thereto.
Section 13.2
 
The Term Loan Borrower hereby appoints the Borrower (and the Borrower hereby consents to such appointment) as the Term Loan Borrower's attorney in fact, with full authority in the place and stead of the Term Loan Borrower and in the name of the Term Loan Borrower or otherwise, from time to time in the Borrower's discretion, to take any action and to execute any instrument that the Borrower may deem necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes of this Agreement, including, without limitation, executing and delivering notices of continuation; provided, however, that upon written notice from the Term Loan Borrower to the Borrower, the foregoing power of attorney may be terminated at any time.
(c)
                                 
 
Each of the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower hereby acknowledges that:
13.13
Acknowledgements.
                
 
it has been advised by counsel in the negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents;
(a)
                                 
 
neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender has any fiduciary relationship with or duty to the Borrowers arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, and the relationship between the Administrative Agent and Lenders, on the one hand, and the Borrowers, on the other hand, in connection herewith or therewith is solely that of debtor and creditor; and
(b)
                                
 
no joint venture is created hereby or by the other Loan Documents or otherwise exists by virtue of the transactions contemplated hereby among the Lenders or among the Borrowers and the Lenders.
(c)
                                 
 
Each Lender agrees to keep confidential any Information (a) provided to it by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or (b) obtained by such Lender based on a review of the books and records of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; that nothing herein shall prevent any Lender from disclosing any such Information (i) to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lender or any other Lender, (ii) to any Transferee or prospective Transferee which receives such Information having been made aware of the confidential nature thereof and having agreed to abide by the provisions of this , (iii) to its employees, directors, agents, attorneys, accountants and other professional advisors, and to employees and officers of its Affiliates who agree to be bound by the provisions of this and who have a need for such Information in connection with this Agreement or other transactions or proposed transactions with the Borrowers, (iv) upon the request or demand of any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over such Lender, (v) in response to any order of any court or other Governmental Authority or as may otherwise be required pursuant to any Requirement of Law, (vi) subject to an agreement to comply with the provisions of this subsection, to any actual or prospective counter-party (or its advisors) to any Hedge Agreement, (vii) which has been publicly disclosed other than in breach of this Agreement, or (viii) in connection with the exercise of any remedy hereunder.
13.14
Confidentiality.
                
provided
subsection 13.14
subsection 13.14
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from either Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to either Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Issuing Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
 
Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Issuing Lender acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
 
13.15
Loan Conversion/Participations.
                
 
(i) On any Conversion Date, to the extent not otherwise prohibited by a Requirement of Law or otherwise, all Loans (other than CAF Advances) outstanding in any currency other than Dollars ("") shall be converted into Revolving Credit Loans denominated in Dollars (calculated on the basis of the relevant Exchange Rates as of the Business Day immediately preceding the Conversion Date) ("") and (ii) on the Conversion Date (with respect to Loans described in the foregoing clause (i)) (A) each Lender (other than Term Lenders) severally, unconditionally and irrevocably agrees that it shall purchase in Dollars a participating interest in such Converted Loans in an amount equal to its Conversion Sharing Percentage of the outstanding principal amount of the Converted Loans and (B) to the extent necessary to cause the Committed Outstandings Percentage of each Lender (other than Term Lenders) to equal its Revolving Credit Commitment Percentage (calculated immediately prior to the termination or expiration of the Revolving Credit Commitments), each Lender (other than Term Lenders) severally, unconditionally and irrevocably agrees that it shall purchase or sell a participating interest in Revolving Credit Loans then outstanding. Each Lender (other than Term Lenders) will immediately transfer to the Administrative Agent, in immediately available funds, the amounts of its participation(s), and the proceeds of such participation(s) shall be distributed by the Administrative Agent to each Lender (other than Term Lenders) from which a participating interest is being purchased in the amount(s) provided for in the preceding sentence. All Converted Loans shall bear interest at the rate which would otherwise be applicable to ABR Loans.
(a)
                                 
Loans to be Converted
Converted Loans
 
If, for any reason, the Loans to be Converted may not be converted into Dollars in the manner contemplated by paragraph (a) of this , (i) effective on such Conversion Date, each Lender (other than the Term Lenders) severally, unconditionally and irrevocably agrees that it shall purchase a participating interest in such Loans to be Converted, as the case may be, in an amount equal to its Conversion Sharing Percentage of such Loans to be Converted, and (ii) each Lender (other than the Term Lenders) shall purchase or sell participating interests
(b)
                                
subsection 13.15
as provided in paragraph (a)(ii)(B) of this . Each such Lender will immediately transfer to the appropriate Administrative Agent, in immediately available funds, the amount(s) of its participation(s), and the proceeds of such participation(s) shall be distributed by the Administrative Agent to each relevant Lender in the amount(s) provided for in the preceding sentence.
subsection 13.15
 
To the extent any Non-Excluded Taxes are required to be withheld from any amounts payable by a Lender to another Lender in connection with its participating interest in any Converted Loan, the Borrower shall be required to pay increased amounts to the Lender receiving such payments to the same extent they would be required under if the Borrower were making payments directly to such Lender.
(c)
                                 
subsection 3.10
 
Any time after the actions contemplated by paragraph (a) or (b) of this have been taken, upon the notice of any Lender to the Borrower the following shall occur:  (i) the Borrower (through the guarantee contained in ) shall automatically be deemed to have assumed the Local Currency Loans which are Converted Loans in which such Lender holds a participation, and (ii) such Local Currency Loans shall be assigned by the relevant Lender holding such Local Currency Loans or obligations to the Lender who gave the notice requesting such assumption by the Borrower.
(d)
                                
subsection 13.15
Section 12
 
13.16
Judgment.
                
 
If for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in one currency into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency in the city in which it normally conducts its foreign exchange operation for the first currency on the Business Day preceding the day on which final judgment is given.
(a)
                                 
 
The obligation of each of the Borrowers in respect of any sum due from it to any Lender hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Lender of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency such Lender may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency; if the amount of Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to such Lender in the Agreement Currency, the Borrowers agree notwithstanding any such judgment to indemnify such Lender against such loss, and if the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased exceeds the sum originally due to any Lender, such Lender agrees to remit to the Borrowers such excess.
(b)
                                
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
 
. THE BORROWERS, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND THE LENDERS HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVE TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AND FOR ANY COUNTERCLAIM THEREIN.
13.17
                
WAIVERS OF JURY TRIAL
Each Lender and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrowers that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each of the Borrowers, which information includes the name and address of each of the Borrowers and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify each of the Borrowers in accordance with the Patriot Act.
13.18
USA Patriot Act Notice.
                
Patriot Act
 
13.19
Professional Market Party.
                
Each Term Lender which is a party to this Agreement represents and warrants that it (i) is a PMP, (ii) is aware that it does not benefit from creditor protection under the Dutch Banking Act and (iii) has made its own assessment of the Loan to the Term Loan Borrower. Each Term Lender or Person giving any representation pursuant to this acknowledges that each of the Borrowers, the Agents and the Lenders have relied upon such representation and warranty.
subsection 13.19
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered by their proper and duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
SCHEDULE II
 
INFORMATION CONCERNING LOCAL CURRENCY LOANS
 
I.
                                        
MULTICURRENCY LOANS
 
Bank of America, N.A. 2001 Clayton Road CA4-702-02-25 Concord, CA  94520 Attn:  Jesse Phalen Phone:  925-675-8395 Fax:  888-969-9228 Email:  jesse.c.phalen@bankofamerica.com
1.
                                                                                      
 
Time: Not later than 11:00 a.m., New York Time, four Business Days prior to such Borrowing Date or the date of such continuation or three Business Days prior to such prepayment.
2.
                                      
 
Information Required: Borrowings - Currency, Amount to be borrowed, and Interest Periods.
3.
                                      
 
Continuations or Prepayments - Amount to be continued or prepaid, as the case may be, and Interest Periods.
 
II.
                                    
NOTICE OF LOCAL CURRENCY OUTSTANDINGS
 
Deliver to:Bank of America, N.A.
1.
                                      
                                        
2001 Clayton Road CA4-702-02-25 Concord, CA  94520 Attn:  Jesse Phalen Phone:  925-675-8395 Fax:  888-969-9228 Email:  jesse.c.phalen@bankofamerica.com
 
Delivery time: By close of business in New York on the date of making of each Local Currency Loan and on the last Business Day of each month on which the applicable Foreign Subsidiary Borrower has outstanding any Local Currency Loans.
2.
                                      
 
Information Required: Name of Foreign Subsidiary Borrower, amount and currency of outstanding Local Currency Loans.
3.
                                      

Exhibit 99.2
 
Execution Copy
 
 
, dated as of April 21, 2006, among (i) , a Delaware corporation (the ""), (ii) the several banks and other financial institutions or entities from time to time parties hereto (the ""), (iii) , as Syndication Agent (in such capacity, the ""), (iv) , as co-documentation agents (collectively, the "") and (v) , as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder (in such capacity, the "").
INTERIM LOAN AGREEMENT
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
Borrower
Lenders
MERRILL LYNCH CAPITAL CORPORATION
Syndication Agent
BEAR STEARNS CORPORATE LENDING INC.,
DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC. AND WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
Documentation Agents
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
Administrative Agent
 
, pursuant to the agreement and plan of merger dated as of January 25, 2006 (the "") between the Borrower, Galaxy Merger Sub, Inc. ("") and Guidant Corporation (""), Acquisition Sub has agreed to merge (the "") with and into Target (the ""), with Target surviving the Merger;
WHEREAS
Acquisition Agreement
Acquisition Sub
Target
Merger
Acquisition
 
, the proceeds of the borrowing hereunder, the initial borrowings under the Credit Agreement (as defined below) and the Abbott Loan (as defined below) will be used to finance in part the Merger and to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Transactions;
WHEREAS
 
, upon consummation of the Acquisition, Target will be a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower;
WHEREAS
 
, the Borrower has requested that the Lenders make the Interim Loans (as defined below) to the Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth herein; and
WHEREAS
 
, the Lenders have agreed to make the Interim Loans available upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein;
WHEREAS
 
, in consideration of the premises, and of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
1.1          Defined Terms.
 
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
"":  that $900.0 million aggregate principal amount of subordinated loans made to BSC International Holding Limited pursuant to the Abbott Loan Agreement.
Abbott Loan
 
"":  the promissory note, dated as of April 21, 2006, between BSC International Holding Limited and Abbott Laboratories that provides for the Abbott Loan.
Abbott Loan Agreement
"": that transaction agreement between the Borrower and Abbott Laboratories, dated as of January 8, 2006, as amended.
Abbott Transaction Agreement
 
"":  for any day, a rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Base CD Rate in effect on such day and (c) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day 1/2 of 1%. For purposes hereof: "" shall mean the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by the Administrative Agent as its prime rate in effect (the Prime Rate not being intended to be the lowest rate of interest charged by Bank of America, in connection with extensions of credit to debtors); "" shall mean the sum of (a) the product of (i) the Three-Month Secondary CD Rate and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is one minus the C/D Reserve Percentage and (b) the C/D Assessment Rate; "" shall mean, for any day, the secondary market rate for three-month certificates of deposit reported as being in effect on such day (or, if such day shall not be a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day) by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "") through the public information telephone line of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (which rate will, under the current practices of the Board, be published in Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15(519) during the week following such day), or, if such rate shall not be so reported on such day or such next preceding Business Day, the average of the secondary market quotations for three-month certificates of deposit of major money center banks in New York City received at approximately 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on such day (or, if such day shall not be a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day) by the Administrative Agent from three New York City negotiable certificate of deposit dealers of recognized standing selected by it; and "" shall mean, for any day, the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for the day of such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it. Any change in the ABR due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Three-Month Secondary CD Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective as of the opening of business on the effective day of such change in the Prime Rate, the Three-Month Secondary CD Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
ABR
plus 1%
plus
Prime Rate
Base CD Rate
Three-Month Secondary CD Rate
Board
Federal Funds Effective Rate
 
"":  Interim Loans bearing interest based upon the ABR.
ABR Loans
 
"":  as defined in the preamble hereto.
Administrative Agent
 
"":  as to any Person, any other Person (other than a Subsidiary) which, directly or indirectly, is in control of, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" of a Person means the power, directly or indirectly, either to (a) vote 10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors of such Person or (b) direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
 
"":  the collective reference to the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, the Documentation Agents, the Arrangers and the Bookrunners.
Agents
"":  this Interim Loan Agreement, as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Agreement
 
"":  with respect to each day for each Type of Interim Loan, the rate per annum based on the Ratings in effect on such day, as set forth under the relevant column heading below:
Applicable Margin
 
 
For purposes of the foregoing table, the Rating Category shall be deemed to be Rating V until each of the Ratings Agencies announces or confirms after the Closing Date its rating applicable to the long-term senior unsecured non-credit enhanced debt of the Borrower.
 
"":  Banc of America Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Joint Lead Arrangers for this Agreement.
Arrangers
 
"" means the sale by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to any Person other than the Borrower or any of its wholly-owned Subsidiaries of (i) any of the stock of any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries, (ii) substantially all of the assets of any division or line of business of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or (iii) any other assets (whether tangible or intangible) of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (other than (a) inventory sold in the ordinary course of business and (b) any such other assets to the extent that the aggregate value of such assets sold in any single transaction or related series of transactions is equal to $50,000,000 or less); , that, with respect to any sale that would be otherwise deemed an Asset Sale pursuant to the foregoing, if the Borrower shall deliver an officers' certificate to the Administrative Agent at or prior to receipt of proceeds of such sale setting forth the Borrower's intent to use such proceeds to replace assets that are the subject of such sale with other assets necessary or desirable for the conduct of its business, or to exchange assets for other assets used in the conduct of its business, or to purchase 100% of the stock of a company engaged in the same or a similar business within 365 days of such receipt and no Event of Default has or shall have occurred and shall be continuing at such time, such sale shall not be deemed to constitute an Asset Sale, except to the extent such replacement assets or proceeds thereof are not so used within such 365-day period, after which time such sale, to such extent, shall be deemed an Asset Sale.
Asset Sale
provided
 
"":  as defined in .
Assignee
subsection 10.6(c)
 
"":  Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of America
 
"":  as defined in the definition of ABR.
Base CD Rate
"":  as defined in .
benefited Lender
subsection 10.7
 
"":  as defined in the definition of ABR.
Board
 
"":  Banc of America Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Joint Bookrunners for this Agreement.
Bookrunners
 
"":  as defined in the preamble hereto.
Borrower
 
"":  a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York are authorized or required by law to close; that (i) when such term is used for the purpose of determining the date on which the Eurocurrency Base Rate is determined under this Agreement for any Interim Loan for any Interest Period therefor and for purposes of determining the first and last day of any such Interest Period and (ii) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Loan, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in respect of any such Eurocurrency Loan, or any other dealings to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Loan, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in Dollars are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
provided
 
"":  as to any Person, the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP and, for the purposes of this Agreement, the amount of such obligations at any time shall be the capitalized amount thereof at such time determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
 
"":  any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all warrants or options to purchase any of the foregoing.
Capital Stock
 
"":  for any day as applied to any ABR Loan, the annual assessment rate in effect on such day which is payable by a member of the Bank Insurance Fund maintained by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "") classified as well-capitalized and within supervisory subgroup "B" (or a comparable successor assessment risk classification) within the meaning of 12 C.F.R.  327.4 (or any successor provision) to the FDIC (or any successor) for the FDIC's (or such successor's) insuring time deposits at offices of such institution in the United States.
C/D Assessment Rate
FDIC
 
"":  for any day as applied to any ABR Loan, that percentage (expressed as a decimal) which is in effect on such day, as prescribed by the Board, for determining the maximum reserve requirement for a Depositary Institution (as defined in Regulation D of the Board) in respect of new non-personal time deposits in Dollars having a maturity of 30 days or more.
C/D Reserve Percentage
 
"":  April 21, 2006.
Closing Date
"":  the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
 
"":  an entity, whether or not incorporated, which is under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 4001 of ERISA or is part of a group which includes the Borrower and which is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
Commonly Controlled Entity
 
"":  any special purpose corporation organized and administered by any Lender for the purpose of making Interim Loans otherwise required to be made by such Lender and designated by such Lender in a written instrument; , that the designation by any Lender of a Conduit Lender shall not relieve the designating Lender of any of its obligations to fund an Interim Loan under this Agreement if, for any reason, its Conduit Lender fails to fund any such Interim Loan, and the designating Lender (and not the Conduit Lender) shall have the sole right and responsibility to deliver all consents and waivers required or requested under this Agreement with respect to its Conduit Lender; and , , that no Conduit Lender shall (a) be entitled to receive any greater amount pursuant to , , or than the designating Lender would have been entitled to receive in respect of the extensions of credit made by such Conduit Lender or (b) be deemed to have any Commitment.
Conduit Lender
provided
provided
further
Section 3.8
3.9
3.10
10.5
 
"":  of any Person for any period, Consolidated Net Income of such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period , without duplication and to the extent reflected as a charge in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) income tax expense, (b) Consolidated Interest Expense of such Person and its Subsidiaries, amortization or writeoff of debt discount and debt issuance costs and commissions, discounts and other fees and charges associated with Indebtedness, (c) depreciation expense, (d) amortization of intangibles (including, but not limited to, goodwill) and organization costs, (e) any extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring expenses or losses (to the extent any of the foregoing are non-cash items) (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business and including special charges and purchased research and development charges in connection with acquisitions) and (f) any non-cash stock compensation expense in accordance with the adoption of FAS123(r), and minus, to the extent included in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) interest income (except to the extent deducted in determining Consolidated Interest Expense) and (b) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring income or gains (to the extent any of the foregoing are non-cash items) (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, gains on the sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business).
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
 
Consolidated EBITDA shall be calculated on a Pro Forma Basis to give effect to the Acquisition as if the Acquisition had been effected on the first day of such period.
 
 "":  of any Person for any period, total interest expense of such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period with respect to all outstanding Indebtedness of such Person and its Subsidiaries determined in accordance with GAAP (including, all net costs that are allocable to such period in accordance with GAAP); that interest expense related to payments on the Abbott Loan intended to be paid solely in shares of the Borrower's common stock shall be excluded from this definition of "Consolidated Interest Expense."
Consolidated Interest Expense
provided
Consolidated Interest Expense shall be calculated on a Pro Forma Basis to give effect to any Indebtedness incurred, assumed or permanently repaid or extinguished during the relevant period in connection with the Acquisition as if such incurrence, assumption, repayment or extinguishing had been effected on the first day of such period.
 
"":  as at the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for such period to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
 
"":  as at the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Debt on such day to (b) Consolidated EBITDA of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such period.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
 
"":  of any Person for any period, the consolidated net income (or loss) of such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Income
 
"":  at any date, Consolidated Total Assets minus (without duplication) the net book value of all assets which would be treated as intangible assets, as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Tangible Assets
 
"":  at any date, the net book value of all assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Total Assets
 
"":  at any date, the aggregate principal amount of all Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries at such date, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Total Debt
 
"":  as defined in .
Continuing Directors
Section 8(i)
 
"":  as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
 
"":  any date on which either (a) an Event of Default under has occurred or (b) the Interim Loans shall have been declared immediately due and payable pursuant to .
Conversion Date
subsection 8(f)
Section 8
 
"": that certain credit agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the Borrower, BSC International Holding Limited, the other banks and financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation, as Syndication Agent, Bear Stearns Corporate Lending Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Documentation Agents, Banc of America Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Credit Agreement
 
"":  as defined in
Debt Offering
subsection 6.8.
"":  any of the events specified in , whether or not any requirement for the giving of notice, the lapse of time, or both, or any other condition, has been satisfied.
Default
Section 8
 
"":  as defined in the preamble hereto.
Documentation Agents
 
"" and "": dollars in lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
 
"": that amended and restated fee letter, dated as of January 16, 2006 among Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC and the Borrower.
Engagement Letter
 
"":  any and all applicable foreign, Federal, state, local or municipal laws, rules, regulations, statutes, ordinances, codes, decrees or other enforceable requirements or orders of any Governmental Authority or other Requirements of Law regulating, relating to or imposing liability or standards of conduct concerning protection of human health or the environment, as now or may at any time hereafter be in effect.
Environmental Laws
 
"":  the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
 
"": with respect to each day during each Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Loan, the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the offered rate for deposits in the applicable currency with a term comparable to such Interest Period that appears on the applicable Reuters page as the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate ("") at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, two Business Days prior to the beginning of such Interest Period; , , that if at any time for any reason such offered rate for any such currency does not appear on a Reuters page, "" shall mean, with respect to each day during each Interest Period pertaining to an Interim Loan denominated in such currency, the rate per annum equal to the average (rounded upward to the nearest 1/16th of 1%) of the respective rates notified to the Administrative Agent by each of the Reference Lenders as the rate at which such Reference Lender offers deposits in such currency at or about 11:00 A.M., London time, two Business Days prior to the beginning of such Interest Period in the London interbank market for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period for the number of days comprised therein.
Eurocurrency Base Rate
BBA LIBOR
provided
however
Eurocurrency Base Rate
 
"":  with respect to each day during each Interest Period pertaining to an Interim Loan, a rate per annum determined for such day in accordance with the following formula (rounded upward to the nearest 1/100th of 1%):
Eurocurrency Rate
 
 "":  for any day as applied to an Interim Loan, the aggregate (without duplication) of the rates (expressed as a decimal) of reserve requirements in effect on such day (including, without limitation, basic, supplemental, marginal and emergency reserves) under any regulations of the Board or other Governmental Authority having jurisdiction with respect thereto dealing with reserve requirements prescribed for eurocurrency funding
Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements
(currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of such Board) maintained by a member bank of such System.
 
"":  Interim Loans, the rate of interest applicable to which is based upon the Eurocurrency Rate for Dollars.
Eurodollar Loans
 
"":  any of the events specified in , that any requirement for the giving of notice, the lapse of time, or both, or any other condition, has been satisfied.
Event of Default
Section 8
provided
 
"":  the Closing Date.
Fee Commencement Date
 
"":  that amended and restated fee letter, dated as of January 16, 2006, among Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation, Banc of America Securities LLC, Bank of America, N.A. and the Borrower.
Fee Letter
 
"":  any lease of property, real or personal, the obligations of the lessee in respect of which are required in accordance with GAAP to be capitalized on a balance sheet of the lessee.
Financing Lease
 
"":  Fitch Ratings.
Fitch
 
"":  generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America consistent with those utilized in preparing the audited financial statements referred to in .
GAAP
subsection 4.1
 
"":  any nation or government, any state or other political subdivision thereof and any entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
 
"": a guarantee of the Obligations in the form of or otherwise in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
Guarantee
Exhibit F
 
"":  as to any Person (the ""), any obligation of (a) the guaranteeing person or (b) another Person (including, without limitation, any bank under any letter of credit) to induce the creation of which the guaranteeing person has issued a reimbursement, counterindemnity or similar obligation, in either case guaranteeing or in effect guaranteeing any Indebtedness, leases, dividends or other obligations (the "") of any other unrelated third Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, including, without limitation, any obligation of the guaranteeing person, whether or not contingent, (i) to purchase any such primary obligation or any property constituting direct or indirect security therefor, (ii) to advance or supply funds (1) for the purchase or payment of any such primary obligation or (2) to maintain working capital or equity capital of the primary obligor or otherwise to maintain the net worth or solvency of the primary obligor, (iii) to purchase property, securities or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of any such primary obligation of the ability of the primary obligor to make payment of such primary obligation or (iv) otherwise to assure or hold harmless the owner of any such primary obligation against
Guarantee Obligation
guaranteeing person
primary obligations
primary obligor
loss in respect thereof; , , that the term Guarantee Obligation shall not include endorsements of instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of business. The amount of any Guarantee Obligation of any guaranteeing person shall be deemed to be the lower of (a) an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Guarantee Obligation is made and (b) the maximum amount for which such guaranteeing person may be liable pursuant to the terms of the instrument embodying such Guarantee Obligation, unless such primary obligation and the maximum amount for which such guaranteeing person may be liable are not stated or determinable, in which case the amount of such Guarantee Obligation shall be such guaranteeing person's reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the Borrower in good faith.
provided
however
 
"":  any Person that executes a Guarantee.
Guarantor
 
 "":  all agreements with non-related third parties with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreements involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions; that no employee benefit plan of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall be a "Hedge Agreement".
Hedge Agreements
provided
 
"":  of any Person at any date, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than current trade liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of such Person's business and payable in accordance with customary practices and earn-outs and other similar obligations in respect of acquisition and other similar agreements), (c) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar instruments, (d) all indebtedness created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property), (e) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (f) all obligations of such Person, contingent or otherwise, as an account party or applicant under or in respect of acceptances, letters of credit, surety bonds or similar arrangements, (g) the liquidation value of all redeemable preferred Capital Stock of such Person, (h) all indebtedness of such Person, determined in accordance with GAAP, arising out of a Receivables Transaction, (i) all Guarantee Obligations of such Person in respect of obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (a) through (h) above, (j) all obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (a) through (i) above secured by (or for which the holder of such obligation has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, whether or not such Person has assumed or become liable for the payment of such obligation, and (k) for the purposes of only, all obligations of such Person in respect of Hedge Agreements. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness expressly provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
Indebtedness
Section 8(e)
"":  with respect to any Multiemployer Plan, the condition that such Plan is insolvent within the meaning of Section 4245 of ERISA.
Insolvency
 
"":  pertaining to a condition of Insolvency.
Insolvent
 
"":  (a) as to any ABR Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December and the Termination Date, (b) as to any Eurodollar Loan having an Interest Period of three months or less, the last day of such Interest Period, and (c) as to any Eurodollar Loan having an Interest Period longer than three months, each day which is three months, or a whole multiple thereof, after the first day of such Interest Period and the last day of such Interest Period.
Interest Payment Date
 
"":  with respect to any Eurodollar Loan:
Interest Period
 
(i)            initially, the period commencing on the Closing Date or conversion date, as the case may be, with respect to such Eurodollar Loan and ending one, two, three, six or nine (or, if available to all Lenders, twelve) months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its notice of borrowing or notice of conversion, as the case may be, given with respect thereto; and
 
(ii)           thereafter, each period commencing on the last day of the next preceding Interest Period applicable to such Eurodollar Loan and ending one, two, three, six or nine months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower by irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent not less than three Business Days prior to the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto;
 
that, all of the foregoing provisions relating to Interest Periods are subject to the following:
provided
 
(1)           if any Interest Period would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless the result of such extension would be to carry such Interest Period into another calendar month in which event such Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Business Day;
 
(2)           any Interest Period in respect of any Interim Loan made by any Lender that would otherwise extend beyond the Termination Date applicable to such Lender shall end on such Termination Date; and
 
(3)           any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of a calendar month.
 
"":  as defined in .
Interim Loan
subsection 2.1
"": $7,000,000,000 the net cash proceeds (including, without limitation, after giving effect to any tax related liabilities) received in the United States by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries on or prior to the Closing Date from Abbott Laboratories pursuant to the Abbott Transaction Agreement from (i) the sale of the Business (as defined in the Abbott Transaction Agreement), (ii) the Abbott Loan and (iii) the sale to Abbott Laboratories of the Shares (as defined in the Abbott Transaction Agreement).
Interim Loan Availability
less
 
"":  as to any Lender, the obligation of such Lender to make Interim Loans to the Borrower hereunder on the Closing Date in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on under the heading "Interim Loan Commitment."
Interim Loan Commitment
Schedule I
 
"": as to any Lender, the product of (x) the percentage which such Lender's Interim Loan Commitment at such time constitutes of the total Interim Loan Commitments of all Lenders and (y) the lesser of (i) the Interim Loan Availability and (ii) the principal amount of the Interim Loans requested by the Borrower.
Interim Loan Exposure
 
"":  (a) any Affiliate of any Lender, (b) any Person that is administered or managed by any Lender and that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and (c) with respect to any Lender which is a fund that invests in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit, any other fund that invests in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit and is managed or advised by the same investment advisor as such Lender or by an Affiliate of such Lender or investment advisor.
Lender Affiliate
 
"":  as defined in the preamble hereto; , that unless the context otherwise requires, each reference herein to the Lenders shall be deemed to include any Conduit Lender.
Lenders
provided
 
"":  any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge or other security interest or any preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement and any Financing Lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
 
"":  this Agreement, any Notes and any Guarantee.
Loan Documents
 
"":  Lenders having more than 50% of all Interim Loans outstanding.
Majority Lenders
 
"":  a material adverse effect on (a) the business, operations, property or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole or (b) the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or the rights or remedies of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders hereunder or thereunder.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"":  any gasoline or petroleum (including crude oil or any fraction thereof) or petroleum products or any hazardous or toxic substances, materials or wastes, defined or regulated as such in or under any Environmental Law, including, without limitation, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and urea-formaldehyde insulation.
Materials of Environmental Concern
"":  Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
 
"":  a Plan which is a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
 
"" means:
Net Cash Proceeds
 
(a)           with respect to any Asset Sale by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, the excess, if any, of (i) the sum of cash and cash equivalents received in connection with such transaction (including any cash or cash equivalents received by way of deferred payment pursuant to, or by monetization of, a note receivable or otherwise, but only as and when so received) over (ii) the sum of (A) the principal amount of any Indebtedness that is secured by the applicable asset and that is required to be repaid in connection with such transaction (other than Indebtedness under the Loan Documents), (B) the reasonable and customary out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Borrower or such Subsidiary in connection with such transaction and (C) income taxes reasonably estimated to be actually payable within two years of the date of the relevant transaction as a result of any gain recognized in connection therewith;
 
(b)           with respect to the sale or issuance of any equity interest by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or the incurrence or issuance of any Indebtedness by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, the excess of (i) the sum of the cash and cash equivalents received in connection with such transaction over (ii) the underwriting discounts and commissions, and other reasonable and customary out-of-pocket expenses, incurred by the Borrower or such Subsidiary in connection therewith.
 
"":  as defined in .
Non-Excluded Taxes
subsection 3.10
 
": as defined in .
Note
subsection 3.13(d)
 
"":  collectively, the unpaid principal of and interest on the Interim Loans and all other obligations and liabilities of the Borrower under this Agreement (including, without limitation, interest accruing at the then applicable rate provided in this Agreement or any other applicable Loan Document after the maturity of the Interim Loans and interest accruing at the then applicable rate provided in this Agreement or any other applicable Loan Document after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy, or the commencement of any insolvency, reorganization or like proceeding, whether or not a claim for post-filing or post-petition interest is allowed in such proceeding), whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, due or to become due, or now existing or hereafter incurred, which may arise under, out of, or in connection with, this Agreement, the Notes, the other Loan Documents, Hedge Agreements entered into with Lenders or any other document made, delivered or given in connection therewith, in each case whether on account of principal, interest, reimbursement obligations, fees, indemnities, costs, expenses or otherwise.
Obligations
 
"":  as defined in .
Participant
subsection 10.6(b)
 
"":  as defined in .
Patriot Act
subsection 10.16
"":  the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation established pursuant to Subtitle A of Title IV of ERISA.
PBGC
 
"":  an individual, partnership, corporation, business trust, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, Governmental Authority or other entity of whatever nature.
Person
 
"":  at a particular time, any employee benefit plan which is covered by ERISA and in respect of which the Borrower or a Commonly Controlled Entity is (or, if such plan were terminated at such time, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
 
"": as defined in .
Platform
subsection 6.2
 
"" means on a pro forma basis with such adjustments as the chief financial officer of the Borrower shall reasonably and in good faith determine to be appropriate to give effect to the Acquisition and the incurrence of Indebtedness in connection therewith; that such adjustments are deemed acceptable by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion.
Pro Forma Basis
provided
 
"":  the facilities and properties owned, leased or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
Properties
 
"":  the respective rating of each of the Rating Agencies applicable to the long-term senior unsecured non-credit enhanced debt of the Borrower, as announced by the Rating Agencies from time to time.
Rating
 
"":  collectively, Fitch, Moody's and S&P.
Rating Agencies
 
"":  each of Rating I, Rating II, Rating III, Rating IV, Rating V, Rating VI and Rating VII.
Rating Category
 
"":  the respective Ratings set forth below:
Rating I, Rating II, Rating III, Rating IV, Rating V, Rating VI and Rating VII
 
A Rating Category shall apply at any date if, at such date, the Ratings are better than or equal to at least two of the three Ratings in any such Ratings Category, and a higher rating category does not apply.
 
"":  any accounts receivable of any Person, including, without limitation, any thereof constituting or evidenced by chattel paper, instruments or general intangibles (as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code of the State of New York), and all proceeds thereof and rights (contractual and other) and collateral related thereto.
Receivables
 
"":  any special purpose, bankruptcy remote Subsidiary of the Borrower that purchases, on a revolving basis, Receivables generated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
Receivables Subsidiary
 
"":  any transactions or series of related transactions providing for the financing of Receivables of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
Receivables Transaction
 
"":  Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch and Wachovia Bank, National Association.
Reference Lenders
 
"":  as defined in
Register
subsection 10.6(d)
.
 
"":  with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and partners, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
 
"":  with respect to any Multiemployer Plan, the condition that such plan is in reorganization within the meaning of Section 4241 of ERISA.
Reorganization
 
"":  any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than those events as to which the thirty day notice period is waived under subsections .27, .28, .29, .30, .31, .32, .34 or ..35 of PBGC Reg.  4043.
Reportable Event
 
"":  as to any Person, the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws or other organizational or governing documents of such Person, and any law, treaty, rule or regulation or determination of an arbitrator or a court or other Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its property or to which such Person or any of its property is subject.
Requirement of Law
 
"":  with respect to the Borrower, the chief executive officer or the president of the Borrower or, with respect to financial matters, the chief financial officer of the Borrower.
Responsible Officer
 
"":  Standard & Poor's Ratings Services.
S&P
 
"":  any Plan that is covered by Title IV of ERISA, but that is not a Multiemployer Plan.
Single Employer Plan
 
"":  as to any Person, a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity of which shares of stock or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power
Subsidiary
(other than stock or such other ownership interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such corporation, partnership or other entity are at the time owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise qualified, all references to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" in this Agreement shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
 
"":  as defined in the preamble hereto.
Syndication Agent
 
"":  as defined in .
Take-out Banks
subsection 6.8
 
"":  April 21, 2007.
Termination Date
 
"":  the collective reference to Eurodollar Loans the then current Interest Periods with respect to all of which begin on the same date and end on the same later date.
Tranche
 
"":  the consummation of the Merger, the Acquisition and the borrowings of the Abbott Loan, the initial loans under the Credit Agreement and the Interim Loans hereunder.
Transactions
 
"":  as defined in .
Transferee
subsection 10.6(f)
 
"":  as to any Interim Loan, its nature as an ABR Loan or a Eurodollar Loan.
Type
 
"":  the United States of America (including the states, commonwealths and territories thereof and the District of Columbia).
United States
 
1.2          Other Definitional Provisions.
 
(a)           Unless otherwise specified therein, all terms defined in this Agreement shall have the defined meanings when used in any Notes or any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto.
 
(b)           As used herein and in any Notes, and any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto, accounting terms relating to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries not defined in and accounting terms partly defined in , to the extent not defined, shall have the respective meanings given to them under GAAP.
subsection 1.1
subsection 1.1
 
(c)           The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and Section, subsection, Schedule and Exhibit references are to this Agreement unless otherwise specified.
 
(d)           The meanings given to terms defined herein shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of such terms.
Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Lender severally agrees to make an interim loan in Dollars (an "") to the Borrower on the Closing Date in an amount not to exceed the amount of the Interim Loan Exposure of such Lender. The Interim Loans may from time to time be Eurodollar Loans or ABR Loans, as determined by the Borrower and notified to the Administrative Agent in accordance with and . The Interim Loan Commitments shall expire at 5:00 p.m. on the Closing Date. Amounts borrowed under this and repaid or prepaid may not be reborrowed.
2.1          Interim Loans.
Interim Loan
Sections 2.2
3.2
Section 2.1
 
The Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent irrevocable notice (which notice must be received by the Administrative Agent prior to 10:00 A.M., New York City time, (a) three Business Days prior to the anticipated Closing Date, if all or any part of the requested Interim Loans are to be initially Eurodollar Loans and (b) on the anticipated Closing Date otherwise) requesting that the Lenders make the Interim Loans on the Closing Date and specifying the amount to be borrowed. Upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof. Not later than 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on the Closing Date each Lender shall make available to the Administrative Agent an amount in immediately available funds equal to the Interim Loan or Interim Loans to be made by such Lender. The Administrative Agent shall credit the account of the Borrower with the aggregate of the amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by the Lenders in immediately available funds.
2.2          Procedure for Interim Loan Borrowing.
 
The Borrower agrees to pay to the Arrangers the fees in the amounts and on the dates set forth in the Fee Letter.
2.3          Fees.
 
The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Interim Loan of such Lender on the Termination Date (or such earlier date on which prepayments are required pursuant to or on which the Interim Loans become due and payable pursuant to ). The Borrower hereby further agrees to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of the Interim Loans from time to time outstanding from the date hereof until payment in full thereof at the rates per annum, and on the dates, set forth in .
2.4          Repayment of Interim Loans.
Section 3.1(b)
Section 8
subsection 3.4
 
SECTION 3
 
3.1          Optional and Mandatory Prepayments.
 
(a)           . The Borrower may at any time and from time to time prepay the Interim Loans, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty (other than any amounts payable pursuant to if such prepayment is of Eurodollar Loans and is made on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period with respect thereto), upon at least three Business Days' irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, specifying the date and amount of prepayment and whether the prepayment is of Eurodollar Loans, ABR Loans or a combination thereof, and, if of a combination thereof, the amount allocable to each. Upon receipt of any such
Optional
subsection 3.10
notice the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof. If any such notice is given, the amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Partial prepayments of Interim Loans shall be in an aggregate principal amount of at least $1,000,000 or an integral multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof.
 
(b)           .
Mandatory
 
(i)      promptly (but in any event not to exceed ten Business Days) following the receipt in the United States of any Net Cash Proceeds of any Asset Sale after the Closing Date, the Borrower shall prepay the Interim Loans in an aggregate amount equal to 100% of such Net Cash Proceeds; , that no such prepayment shall be required with respect to Asset Sales for fair market value resulting in no more than $100.0 million in Net Cash Proceeds;
provided
 
(ii)     promptly (but in any event not to exceed ten Business Days) following the receipt of any Net Cash Proceeds of any incurrence or issuance of any Indebtedness after the Closing Date, the Borrower shall prepay the Interim Loans in an aggregate amount equal to 100% of such Net Cash Proceeds; , that no such prepayment shall be required with respect to:
provided
 
(A)          Indebtedness of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries owed to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
 
(B)           Indebtedness incurred pursuant to the Credit Agreement; and
 
(C)           the Abbott Loan;  and
 
(iii)    promptly (but in any event not to exceed ten Business Days) following the receipt of any Net Cash Proceeds (from a Person other than the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries) of any sale or issuance by Borrower and its Subsidiaries of any Capital Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for Capital Stock or any warrants, rights or options to acquire Capital Stock after the Closing Date, the Borrower shall prepay Interim Loans in an aggregate amount equal to 100% of such Net Cash Proceeds.
 
3.2          Conversion and Continuation Options.
 
(a)           The Borrower may elect from time to time to convert Eurodollar Loans to ABR Loans by giving the Administrative Agent at least two Business Days' prior irrevocable notice of such election. The Borrower may elect from time to time to convert ABR Loans to Eurodollar Loans by giving the Administrative Agent at least three Business Days' prior irrevocable notice of such election. Any such notice of conversion to Eurodollar Loans shall specify the length of the initial Interest Period therefor. Upon receipt of any such notice the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof. All or any part of outstanding Eurodollar Loans and ABR Loans may be converted as provided herein, that (i) no Interim Loan may be converted into a Eurodollar Loan when any Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent has or the Majority Lenders have determined that such a conversion is not
provided
appropriate and (ii) no Interim Loan may be converted into a Eurodollar Loan after the date that is one month prior to the Termination Date.
 
(b)           Any Eurodollar Loans may be continued as such upon the expiration of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto by the Borrower, giving notice to the Administrative Agent, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the term "Interest Period" set forth in , of the length of the next Interest Period to be applicable to such Interim Loans, that no Eurodollar Loan may be continued as such (i) when any Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent has or the Majority Lenders have determined that such a continuation is not appropriate or (ii) after the date that is one month prior to the Termination Date, and , , that if the Borrower shall fail to give such notice or if such continuation is not permitted, such Interim Loans shall be automatically converted to ABR Loans on the last day of such then expiring Interest Period.
subsection 1.1
provided
provided
further
 
. All borrowings, conversions and continuations of Interim Loans hereunder and all selections of Interest Periods hereunder shall be in such amounts and be made pursuant to such elections so that, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate principal amount of the Eurodollar Loans comprising each Tranche shall be equal to $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
3.3          Minimum Amounts
 
3.4          Interest Rates and Payment Dates.
 
(a)           Each Eurodollar Loan shall bear interest for each day during each Interest Period with respect thereto at a rate per annum equal to the Eurocurrency Rate determined for such Interest Period the Applicable Margin in effect for such day.
plus
 
(b)           Each ABR Loan shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the ABR the Applicable Margin.
plus
 
(c)           If all or a portion of (i) any principal of any Interim Loan, (ii) any interest payable thereon, (iii) any facility fee or (iv) any other amount payable hereunder shall not be paid when due (whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise), the principal of the Interim Loans and/or any such overdue interest, commitment fee or other amount shall bear interest at a rate per annum which is (x) in the case of principal, the rate that would otherwise be applicable thereto pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this subsection 2% or (y) in the case of any such overdue interest, facility fee or other amount, the rate described in paragraph (b) of this subsection 2%, in each case from the date of such non-payment until such overdue principal, interest, facility fee or other amount is paid in full (as well after as before judgment).
plus
plus
 
(d)           Interest pursuant to this subsection shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, that interest accruing pursuant to paragraph (c) of this subsection shall be payable from time to time on demand.
provided
 
3.5          Computation of Interest and Fees.
 
(a)           All interest and fees hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the ABR at times when the ABR is based on
the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year) and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable ABR or Eurocurrency Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Administrative Agent shall as soon as practicable notify the Borrower and the Lenders of each determination of a Eurocurrency Rate. Any change in the interest rate on an Interim Loan resulting from a change in the ABR or the Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements shall become effective as of the opening of business on the day on which such change becomes effective. The Administrative Agent shall as soon as practicable notify the Borrower and the relevant Lenders of the effective date and the amount of each such change in interest rate.
 
(b)           Each determination of an interest rate by the Administrative Agent pursuant to any provision of this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on the Borrower and the Lenders in the absence of manifest error. The Administrative Agent shall, at the request of the Borrower, deliver to the Borrower a statement showing the quotations used by the Administrative Agent in determining any interest rate pursuant to or .
subsections 3.5(a)
(b)
 
(c)           If any Reference Lender shall for any reason no longer have a Commitment or any Interim Loans, such Reference Lender shall thereupon cease to be a Reference Lender, and if, as a result, there shall only be one Reference Lender remaining, the Administrative Agent (after consultation with the Lenders and with the consent of the Borrower (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld)) shall, by notice to the Borrower and the Lenders, designate another Lender as a Reference Lender so that there shall at all times be at least two Reference Lenders.
 
(d)           Each Reference Lender shall use its best efforts to furnish quotations of rates to the Administrative Agent as contemplated hereby. If any of the Reference Lenders shall be unable or shall otherwise fail to supply such rates to the Administrative Agent upon its request, the rate of interest shall, subject to the provisions of , be determined on the basis of the quotations of the remaining Reference Lenders or Reference Lender.
subsection 3.5
 
If prior to the first day of any Interest Period:
3.6          Inability to Determine Interest Rate.
 
(a)           the Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive and binding upon the Borrower) that, by reason of circumstances affecting the relevant market, adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period, or
 
(b)           the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Majority Lenders that the Eurocurrency Rate determined or to be determined for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (as conclusively certified by such Lenders) of making or maintaining their affected Interim Loans during such Interest Period,
 
the Administrative Agent shall give telecopy or telephonic notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders as soon as practicable thereafter. If such notice is given (x) any Eurodollar Loans, as the case may be, requested to be made on the first day of such Interest Period shall be made as ABR Loans, , that the Borrower may cancel the request for such Eurodollar Loan by written
provided
notice to the Administrative Agent one Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period and the Borrower shall not be subject to any liability pursuant to with respect to such cancelled request, (y) any Interim Loans that were to have been converted on the first day of such Interest Period to Eurodollar Loans shall be continued as ABR Loans and (z) any outstanding Eurodollar Loans shall be converted, on the first day of such Interest Period, to ABR Loans. Until such notice has been withdrawn by the Administrative Agent, no further Eurodollar Loans shall be made or continued as such, nor shall the Borrower have the right to convert ABR Loans to Eurodollar Loans.
subsection 3.11
 
3.7          Pro Rata Treatment and Payments.
 
(a)           Each payment (including each prepayment) by the Borrower on account of principal of and interest on the Interim Loans shall be made according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Interim Loans then held by the Lenders. Amounts prepaid on account of the Interim Loans may not be reborrowed.
pro
rata
 
(b)           Unless the Administrative Agent shall have been notified in writing by any Lender prior to a borrowing that such Lender will not make the amount that would constitute its share of such borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender is making such amount available to the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. If such amount is not made available to the Administrative Agent by the required time on the Borrowing Date therefor, such Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent, on demand, such amount with interest thereon at a rate equal to the daily average Federal Funds Effective Rate for the period until such Lender makes such amount immediately available to the Administrative Agent. A certificate of the Administrative Agent submitted to any Lender with respect to any amounts owing under this subsection shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. If such Lender's share of such borrowing is not made available to the Administrative Agent by such Lender within three Business Days of such Borrowing Date, the Administrative Agent shall also be entitled to recover such amount with interest thereon equal to the rate per annum applicable to ABR Loans hereunder.
 
 Notwithstanding any other provision herein, if after the date hereof the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law or in the interpretation or application thereof shall make it unlawful for any Lender to make or maintain Eurodollar Loans as contemplated by this Agreement, (a) the commitment of such Lender hereunder to make Eurodollar Loans, continue Eurodollar Loans and convert ABR Loans to Eurodollar Loans shall forthwith be cancelled and (b) such Lender's Interim Loans then outstanding as Eurodollar Loans, if any, shall be converted automatically to ABR Loans on the respective last days of the then current Interest Periods with respect to such Interim Loans or within such earlier period as required by law. If any such conversion of a Eurodollar Loan occurs on a day which is not the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto, the Borrower shall pay to such Lender such amounts, if any, as may be required pursuant to .
3.8          Illegality.
subsection 3.11
3.9          Requirements of Law.
 
(a)           If the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law or in the interpretation or application thereof or compliance by any Lender with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any central bank or other Governmental Authority made subsequent to the date hereof:
 
(i)      shall subject any Lender to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Note, or any Eurodollar Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender in respect thereof (except for Non-Excluded Taxes indemnified under and the imposition of, or change in the rate of, any tax other than a Non-Excluded Tax payable by such Lender);
subsection 3.10
 
(ii)     shall impose, modify or hold applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan or similar requirement against assets held by, deposits or other liabilities in or for the account of, advances, loans or other extensions of credit by, or any other acquisition of funds by, any office of such Lender which is not otherwise included in the determination of the Eurocurrency Rate; or
 
(iii)    shall impose on such Lender any other condition;
 
and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Lender, by an amount which such Lender deems to be material, of making, converting into, continuing or maintaining Eurodollar Loans or to reduce any amount receivable hereunder in respect thereof, then, in any such case, the Borrower shall promptly pay such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such increased cost or reduced amount receivable; , that the Borrower shall not be required to pay to any Lender any amounts under this paragraph for any period prior to the date on which such Lender gives notice to the Borrower that such amounts are payable unless such Lender gives such notice within 180 days after it became aware or should have become aware of the event giving rise to such payment obligation.
provided
 
(b)           If any Lender shall have determined that after the date hereof the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law regarding capital adequacy or in the interpretation or application thereof or compliance by such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender with any request or directive regarding capital adequacy (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority made subsequent to the date hereof shall have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or such corporation's capital as a consequence of its obligations hereunder to a level below that which such Lender or such corporation could have achieved but for such adoption, change or compliance (taking into consideration such Lender's or such corporation's policies with respect to capital adequacy) by an amount deemed by such Lender to be material, then from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such reduction; , that the Borrower shall not be required to pay to any Lender any amounts under this paragraph for any period prior to the date on which such Lender gives notice to the Borrower that such amounts are payable unless such Lender gives such notice within 180 days after it became aware or should have become aware of the event giving rise to such payment obligation.
provided
(c)           If any Lender becomes entitled to claim any additional amounts pursuant to this subsection, it shall promptly notify the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of the event by reason of which it has become so entitled. A certificate as to any additional amounts payable pursuant to this subsection submitted by such Lender to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. The agreements in this subsection shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Interim Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
 
3.10        Taxes.
 
(a)           All payments made by the Borrower under any Loan Document shall be made free and clear of, and without deduction or withholding for or on account of, any present or future income, stamp or other taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions or withholdings, now or hereafter imposed, levied, collected, withheld or assessed by any Governmental Authority, excluding (i) all net income taxes, franchise taxes or other taxes (in each case, imposed in lieu of net income taxes) and branch profits taxes, in each case imposed on the Administrative Agent or any Lender as a result of a present or former connection between the Administrative Agent or such Lender and the jurisdiction of the Governmental Authority imposing such tax or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein (other than any such connection arising solely from the Administrative Agent or such Lender having executed, delivered or performed its obligations or received a payment under, or enforced, any Loan Document), (ii) in the case of a Lender other than an assignee pursuant to a request by a Borrower under , any U.S. federal withholding tax that is imposed under a law in effect at the time such Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new lending office), except to the extent that such Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, immediately prior to the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to this Section and (iii) any U.S. federal withholding tax imposed as a result of a Lender failing to comply with or . If any such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions or withholdings ("") are required to be withheld from any amounts payable to the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder or under any Loan Document, the amounts so payable to the Administrative Agent or such Lender shall be increased to the extent necessary to yield to the Administrative Agent or such Lender (after payment of all Non-Excluded Taxes) interest or any such other amounts payable hereunder at the rates or in the amounts specified in such Loan Document. Whenever any Non-Excluded Taxes are payable by the Borrower, as promptly as possible thereafter the Borrower shall send to the Administrative Agent for its own account or for the account of such Lender, as the case may be, a certified copy of an original official receipt received by the Borrower showing payment thereof or other evidence of such payment satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (in its reasonable discretion). If the Borrower fails to pay any Non-Excluded Taxes when due to the appropriate taxing authority or fails to remit to the Administrative Agent the required receipts or other required documentary evidence, the Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and the Lenders for any incremental taxes, interest or penalties that may become payable by the Administrative Agent or any Lender as a result of any such failure. The agreements in this subsection shall survive the termination of this Agreement and each other Loan Document and the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder and thereunder.
subsection 3.12
subsection 3.10(c)
(d)
Non-Excluded Taxes
(b)           The Borrower shall indemnify and hold harmless the Administrative Agent and each Lender within 20 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Non-Excluded Taxes (including Non-Excluded Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) payable by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto; that the Borrower shall not be obligated to indemnify the Administrative Agent or any such Lender pursuant to this in respect of penalties, interest or reasonable expenses if such penalties, interest or reasonable expenses are attributable to the gross negligence or wilful misconduct of the person seeking indemnification.
provided
Section 3.10(b)
 
(c)           Each Lender (or Transferee) that is not (i) a citizen or resident of the United States of America, (ii) a corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States of America (or any jurisdiction thereof) or (iii) an estate or trust that is subject to federal income taxation regardless of the source of its income (a "") shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (or, in the case of a Participant, to the Lender from which the related participation shall have been purchased and the Lender shall promptly provide the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with a Form W-8IMY and the portion of any Loans retained on the forms otherwise required pursuant to this ) two copies of either U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or Form W-8ECI, or, in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming exemption from U.S. federal withholding tax under Section 871(h) or 881(c) of the Code with respect to payments of "portfolio interest" a statement substantially in the form of and a Form W-8BEN, or any subsequent versions thereof or successors thereto properly completed and duly executed by such Non-U.S. Lender claiming complete exemption from, or a reduced rate of, U.S. federal withholding tax on all payments of interest by the Borrowers under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Such forms shall be delivered by each Non-U.S. Lender on or before the date it becomes a party to any Loan Document (or, in the case of any Participant, on or before the date such Participant purchases the related participation). In addition, each Non-U.S. Lender shall deliver such forms promptly upon the obsolescence or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Non-U.S. Lender. Each Non-U.S. Lender shall promptly notify the Borrower at any time it determines that it is no longer in a position to provide any previously delivered certificate to the Borrower (or any other form of certification adopted by the U.S. taxing authorities for such purpose). Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph, a Non-U.S. Lender shall not be required to deliver any form pursuant to this paragraph that such Non-U.S. Lender is not legally able to deliver.
Non-U.S. Lender
subsection 3.10(c)
Exhibit E
 
(d)           A Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of non-U.S. withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law and as reasonably requested by the Borrower, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate, that such Lender is legally entitled to complete, execute and deliver such documentation and in such Lender's reasonable judgment such completion, execution or submission would not materially prejudice the legal position of such Lender or be otherwise materially disadvantageous to such Lender; , , that the Borrower shall
provided
provided
further
reimburse such Lender for any material out-of-pocket costs that are incurred by the Lender with respect to providing any such documentation.
 
The Borrower agrees to indemnify each Lender and to hold each such Lender harmless from any loss or expense which such Lender may sustain or incur as a consequence of (a) default by the Borrower in making a borrowing of, conversion into or continuation of Eurodollar Loans after the Borrower has given a notice requesting the same in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, (b) default by the Borrower in making any prepayment after the Borrower has given a notice thereof in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or (c) the making of a prepayment of Eurodollar Loans or the conversion of Eurodollar Loans to ABR Loans on a day which is not the last day of an Interest Period with respect thereto. Such indemnification may include an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the amount so prepaid, or not so borrowed, converted or continued, for the period from the date of such prepayment or of such failure to borrow, convert or continue to the last day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, the Interest Period that would have commenced on the date of such failure) at the applicable rate of interest for such Interim Loans provided for herein over (ii) the amount of interest (as reasonably determined by such Lender) which would have accrued to such Lender on such amount by placing such amount on deposit for a comparable period with leading banks in the interbank eurodollar market. This covenant shall survive the termination of this Agreement and each other Loan Document and the payment of the Interim Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder and thereunder.
3.11        Indemnity.
 
Each Lender agrees that if it makes any demand for payment under or , or if any adoption or change of the type described in shall occur with respect to it, it will use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions and so long as such efforts would not be disadvantageous to it, as determined in its sole discretion) to designate a different lending office if the making of such a designation would reduce or obviate the need for the Borrower to make payments under or , or would eliminate or reduce the effect of any adoption or change described in .
3.12        Change of Lending Office; Removal of Lender.
subsection 3.9
3.10(a)
subsection 3.8
subsection 3.9
3.10(a)
subsection 3.8
 
3.13        Evidence of Debt.
 
(a)           Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Interim Loan of such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time under this Agreement.
 
(b)           The Administrative Agent shall maintain the Register pursuant to , and a subaccount therein for each Lender, in which shall be recorded (i) the amount of each Interim Loan made hereunder, the Type thereof and each Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) both the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder from the Borrower and each Lender's share thereof.
subsection 10.6(d)
 
(c)           The entries made in the Register and the accounts of each Lender maintained pursuant to shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations of the Borrower therein recorded; , , that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain the Register or any such account, or any error therein, shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay (with applicable interest) the Interim Loans made to the Borrower by such Lender in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
subsection 3.13(a)
provided
however
 
(d)           The Borrower agrees that, upon the request to the Administrative Agent by any Lender, the Borrower will execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note of the Borrower evidencing the Interim Loans of such Lender, substantially in the form of with appropriate insertions as to date and principal amount (a "").
Exhibit A
Note
 
 
To induce the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to enter into this Agreement and to make the Interim Loans, the Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and each Lender that:
 
Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (a) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, (b) has the corporate power and authority, and the legal right, to own and operate its property, to lease the property it operates as lessee and to conduct the business in which it is currently engaged and (c) is duly qualified as a foreign corporation and in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure of the foregoing clauses (a) (only with respect to Subsidiaries of the Borrower) and (c) to be true and correct could not, in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
4.1          Corporate Existence; Compliance with Law.
 
The Borrower has the corporate power and authority, and the legal right, to make, deliver and perform the Loan Documents to which it is a party and to borrow hereunder and has taken all necessary corporate action to (i) authorize the borrowings on the terms and conditions of this Agreement and any Notes, and (ii) to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents to which it is a party. No consent or authorization of, filing with, notice to or other act by or in respect of, any Governmental Authority (including, without limitation, exchange control) or any other Person is required with respect to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the borrowings or guarantee hereunder or with the execution, delivery, performance, validity or enforceability of the Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party. This Agreement and each other Loan Document to which the Borrower is, or is to become, a party has been or will be, duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower. This Agreement and each other Loan Document to which the Borrower is, or is to become, a party constitutes or will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms, subject to the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws relating to or
4.2          Corporate Power; Consents and Authorization; Enforceable Obligations.
affecting creditors' rights generally, general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
The Borrower is not an "investment company", or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. The Borrower is not subject to regulation under any Federal or State statute or regulation (other than Regulation X of the Board) which limits its ability to incur Indebtedness.
4.3          Investment Company Act; Other Regulations.
 
On the Closing Date, the proceeds of the Interim Loans shall be used to finance a portion of the cash consideration for the Acquisition and related uses of cash.
4.4          Purpose of Loans.
 
 
The effectiveness of this Agreement is subject to the satisfaction on the Closing Date of the following conditions precedent:
 
(a)           . The Administrative Agent shall have received this Agreement, executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer of each Lender and the Borrower, with a counterpart for each Lender and original Notes executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note.
Interim Loan Agreement
 
(b)           . The Administrative Agent shall have received, with a counterpart for each Lender, a certificate of the Borrower, dated the Closing Date, substantially in the form of , with appropriate insertions and attachments, satisfactory in form and substance to the Administrative Agent, executed by the President or any Vice President and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Borrower.
Closing Certificate
Exhibit B
 
(c)           .
Representations and Warranties
 
(i)            The representations and warranties made by the Borrower shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Closing Date as if made on and as of the Closing Date.
 
(ii)           Each of the representations and warranties that are material to interests of the Lenders set forth in the Acquisition Agreement shall be true and correct as of the date or dates made or deemed to be made pursuant to the terms thereof; that this condition shall be deemed not to have been satisfied only to the extent the Borrower has a right to terminate its obligations under the Acquisition Agreement as a result of a breach of such representations in the Acquisition Agreement.
provided
 
(d)           . The Administrative Agent shall have received, with a counterpart for each Lender, the executed legal opinion of counsel to the Borrower (which may be delivered in part by in-house counsel to the Borrower), covering the matters set forth in . Each such legal opinion shall cover such other matters incident
Legal Opinions
Exhibit C
to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require.
 
(e)           . All accrued fees and expenses (including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Arrangers) of the Arrangers through the Closing Date invoiced with reasonable detail at least one Business Day prior to the Closing Date in connection with the Loan Documents shall have been paid; that the Arrangers shall have provided an estimate and available reasonable detail five business days prior to the Closing Date.
Fees
provided
 
(f)            . The Acquisition shall have been consummated in all material respects in accordance with the terms of the Acquisition Agreement and all related agreements (without the waiver or amendment of any material condition unless consented to by the Lenders).
Acquisition
 
(g)           . There shall not have occurred any change, effect, event, occurrence, state of facts or development which individually or in the aggregate would reasonably be expected to result in any change or effect, that is materially adverse to the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (after giving effect to the Transactions), since September 30, 2005 (a ""); , that none of the following shall be deemed, either alone or in combination, to constitute, and none of the following shall be taken into account in determining whether there has been or will be, a Material Adverse Change: (A) any change, effect, event, occurrence, state of facts or development (1) in the financial or securities markets or the economy in general, (2) in the industries in which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (after giving effect to the Transactions) operates in general, to the extent that such change, effect, event, occurrence, state of facts or development does not disproportionately impact the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (after giving effect to the Transactions), or (3) resulting from any divestiture required to be effected pursuant to the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, (B) any failure, in and of itself, by the Borrower or Target to meet any internal or published projections, forecasts or revenue or earnings predictions (it being understood that the facts or occurrences giving rise or contributing to such failure may be deemed to constitute, or be taken into account in determining whether there has been or would reasonable be expected to be, a Material Adverse Change or (C) any effect on the Borrower's or Target's business relating to or arising from any product recalls announced by Target prior to January 16, 2006, or any related pending or future litigation, investigations by governmental authorities or other developments.
No Closing Date Material Adverse Effect
Material Adverse Change
provided
 
(h)           . The Borrower shall repay all existing indebtedness on the Closing Date so that after giving effect to the Transactions, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries shall have outstanding no indebtedness or preferred stock (or direct or indirect guarantee or other credit support in respect thereof or off balance sheet equivalents including, without limitation, off balance sheet receivables financing arrangements) other than the Interim Loans, the loans under the Credit Agreement, $1,850.0 million in outstanding senior notes maturing between 2011 and 2035 (together with any refinancing thereof and
Indebtedness
increased to the extent of any and all commercially reasonable fees, expenses and premiums associated with any such refinancing), the Abbott Loan, approximately $350.0 million of short-term debt of the type currently at Target and such other indebtedness (including, without limitation, up to the full amount in respect of the Borrower's receivables securitization program substantially as in effect on January 16, 2006) as is reasonably acceptable to the Lenders.
 
(i)            . No law or regulation shall be applicable in the reasonable judgment of the Lenders that restrains, prevents or imposes material adverse conditions upon the Transactions or the financing thereof, including this Agreement. All requisite governmental authorities and third parties shall have approved or consented to the Transactions and the other transactions contemplated hereby to the extent required (without the imposition of any materially burdensome condition or qualification in the reasonable judgment of the Lenders) and all such approvals shall be in full force and effect, all applicable waiting periods shall have expired and there shall be no governmental or judicial action, actual or threatened, that has or could have a reasonable likelihood of restraining, preventing or imposing materially burdensome or materially adverse conditions on any of the Transactions or the other transactions contemplated hereby, other than any such approvals or consents the absence of which could not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, financial condition, liabilities (contingent or otherwise) or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole (after giving effect to the Transactions). The Transactions and the financing therefor shall be in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lenders (1) consent to any Divestitures (as defined in the Acquisition Agreement) contemplated by Section 5.03 to the Acquisition Agreement and such other immaterial divestitures as may be required by applicable governmental or judicial authorities, and (2) agree that any such Divestitures shall not be deemed to violate the conditions set forth in this paragraph.
No conflicts
 
(j)            . No Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on such date or after giving effect to the Interim Loans requested to be made.
No Default
 
(k)           . Evidence that all principal amounts, interest, fees and other amounts owed under each of (i) the Borrower's existing $1,500,000,000 Amended and Restated Multi-Year Revolving Credit Agreement and (ii) the Borrower's existing $500,000,000 Five-Year Revolving Credit Agreement shall have been paid in full on or before the Closing Date and all commitments and agreements with respect thereto shall have been terminated.
Termination of Existing Credit Facilities
 
 
The Borrower hereby agrees that, so long as the Commitments (or any of them) remain in effect or any amount is owing to any Lender or the Administrative Agent hereunder or under any other Loan Documents, the Borrower shall and (except in the case of delivery of financial information, reports and notices) shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to:
Furnish to each Lender:
6.1          Financial Statements.
 
(a)           as soon as available, but in any event not later than 20 days after required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such year and the related consolidated statements of operations and stockholders' equity and of cash flows for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous year, reported on without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception, or qualification arising out of the scope of the audit, by Ernst & Young LLP or other independent certified public accountants of nationally recognized standing;
 
(b)           as soon as available, but in any event not later than 15 days after required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the end of each of the first three quarterly periods of each fiscal year of the Borrower, the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter and the related unaudited consolidated statements of operations for such quarter and the portion of the fiscal year through the end of such quarter and of cash flows of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the portion of the fiscal year through the end of such quarter, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous year, certified by a Responsible Officer as being fairly stated in all material respects (subject to normal year-end audit adjustments); and
 
(c)           all such financial statements shall be complete and correct in all material respects and shall be prepared in reasonable detail and in accordance with GAAP applied consistently throughout the periods reflected therein and with prior periods (except as approved by such accountants or officer, as the case may be, and disclosed therein); , that it is hereby acknowledged that the quarterly financial statements delivered pursuant to paragraph (b) above may not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete annual financial statements.
provided
 
Any financial statement required to be furnished pursuant to this shall be deemed to have been furnished on the date on which the Lenders receive notice that the Borrower has posted such financial statement on the Intralinks website on the Internet at www.intralinks.com; that the Borrower shall give notice of any such posting to the Administrative Agent (who shall then give notice of any such posting to the Lenders). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of any financial statement referred to in this to the Administrative Agent if the Administrative Agent or any Lender requests the Borrower to furnish such paper copies until written notice to cease delivering such paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent.
subsection 6.1
provided
subsection 6.1
 
Furnish to the Administrative Agent with sufficient copies for the Lenders:
6.2          Certificates; Other Information.
 
(a)           concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and , a certificate of a Responsible Officer stating that such Officer has obtained no knowledge of any Default or Event of Default that has occurred and
subsections 6.1(a)
6.1(b)
is continuing except as specified in such certificate, and including calculations demonstrating compliance with ;
subsection 7.1
 
(b)           within ten days after the same are sent, copies of all financial statements and reports which the Borrower sends to its stockholders, and within five days after the same are filed, copies of all financial statements and reports which the Borrower may make to, or file with, the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor or analogous Governmental Authority, and promptly after the same are issued, copies of all press releases issued by the Borrower; and
 
(c)           promptly, such additional financial and other information as any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
 
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available information and projections to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders ( Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to any Borrower or its securities) (each, a ""). The Borrower hereby agrees that (a) it will use commercially reasonable efforts to identify that portion of the Borrower Materials that may be distributed to the Public Lenders and include a reasonably detailed term sheet in such information and that all of the foregoing that is to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC"; (b) by marking materials "PUBLIC," the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders to treat such materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower for purposes of United States federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information (as defined in ), they shall be treated as set forth in ); (c) all materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor;" and (d) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor."
Borrower Materials
Platform
i.e.,
Public Lender
provided
however
subsection 10.14
subsection 10.14
 
Pay, discharge or otherwise satisfy at or before maturity or before they become delinquent, as the case may be, all its material obligations of whatever nature, except where the amount or validity thereof is currently being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and reserves in conformity with GAAP with respect thereto have been provided on the books of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be.
6.3          Payment of Obligations.
 
Continue to engage in business of the same general type as conducted by it on the Closing Date; (b) preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence (except as could not in the aggregate be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect); (c) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business except as otherwise permitted pursuant to ; and (d) comply with all Contractual
6.4          Conduct of Business and Maintenance of Existence.
subsection 7.4
Obligations and Requirements of Law except to the extent that failure to comply therewith could not, in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Keep all property necessary in its business in good working order and condition except to the extent that failure to do so could not, in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies insurance on all its property in at least such amounts and against at least such risks as are adequate for conducting its business; and furnish to each Lender, upon written request, full information as to the insurance carried.
6.5          Maintenance of Property; Insurance.
 
Keep proper books of records and account in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP and all Requirements of Law shall be made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities; and permit representatives of any Lender (upon reasonable advance notice coordinated through the Administrative Agent) to visit and inspect any of its properties and examine and make abstracts from any of its books and records at any reasonable time and as often as may reasonably be desired and to discuss the business, operations, properties and financial and other condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries with officers and employees of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and with its independent certified public accountants.
6.6          Inspection of Property; Books and Records; Discussions.
 
Promptly give notice (unless available in the public filings or releases of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries) to the Administrative Agent and each Lender of:
6.7          Notices.
 
(a)           the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default;
 
(b)           any (i) default or event of default under any Contractual Obligation of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or (ii) litigation, investigation or proceeding which may exist at any time involving the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, which in either case, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and
 
(c)           the following events, as soon as possible and in any event within 30 days after the Borrower knows or has reason to know thereof: (i) the occurrence or expected occurrence of any Reportable Event with respect to any Plan, a failure to make any required contribution to a Plan, the creation of any Lien in favor of the PBGC or a Plan or any withdrawal from, or the termination, Reorganization or Insolvency of, any Multiemployer Plan or (ii) the institution of proceedings or the taking of any other action by the PBGC or the Borrower or any Commonly Controlled Entity or any Multiemployer Plan with respect to the withdrawal from, or the terminating, Reorganization or Insolvency of, any Plan, other than the termination of any Single Employer Plan pursuant to Section 4041(b) of ERISA where, in connection with any of the foregoing, the amount of liability the Borrower or any Commonly Controlled Entity could reasonably be expected to incur would be material.
 
Each notice pursuant to this subsection shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto.
The Borrower shall use commercially reasonable efforts to (a) cooperate with the investment banks party to the Engagement Letter (the "") and provide the Take-out Banks with information required by the Take-out Banks in connection with the offering of debt securities (the "") or other means of refinancing the Interim Loan, (b) assist the Take-out Banks in connection with the marketing of the debt securities with maturities ranging from five to 30 years from the date of issuance and having no scheduled principal payments prior to maturity (including promptly providing to the Take-out Banks any information reasonably requested to effect the issue and sale of the such securities and making available senior management of Borrower for investor meetings), (c) cooperate with the Take-out Banks in the timely preparation of any registration statement or private placement memorandum relating to the Debt Offering and other marketing materials to be used in connection with the syndication of the Interim Loans and (d) prepare and keep updated for use at any time an offering document for the sale of such securities.
6.8          Refinancing of Interim Loans.
Take-out Banks
Debt Offering
 
 
The Borrower hereby agrees that, so long as the Commitments (or any of them) remain in effect or any amount is owing to any Lender or the Administrative Agent hereunder or under any other Loan Documents, the Borrower shall not, and (except with respect to) shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly:
subsection 7.1
 
7.1          Financial Covenants.
 
(a)           . Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as at the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower to exceed (i) 4.5 to 1.0 on or prior to December 31, 2007 and (ii) 3.5 to 1.0 thereafter.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
 
(b)           . Permit the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio as at the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower to be less than 3.0 to 1.0.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
 
Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except for:
7.2          Limitation on Liens.
 
(a)           Liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, that adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, in conformity with GAAP;
provided
 
(b)           carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 60 days or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
(c)           pledges or deposits in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation and deposits securing liability to insurance carriers under insurance or self-insurance arrangements;
 
(d)           deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
 
(e)           easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary;
 
(f)            Liens in existence on the date hereof listed on , that no such Lien is spread to cover any additional property after the Closing Date and that the amount of Indebtedness secured thereby is not increased;
Schedule 7.2
provided
 
(g)           Liens securing Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries incurred to finance the acquisition of fixed or capital assets, that (i) such Liens shall be created substantially simultaneously with the acquisition of such fixed or capital assets, (ii) such Liens do not at any time encumber any property other than the property financed by such Indebtedness and (iii) the amount of Indebtedness secured thereby is not increased;
provided
 
(h)           Liens on the property or assets of a corporation which becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof, that (i) such Liens existed at the time such corporation became a Subsidiary and were not created in anticipation thereof, (ii) any such Lien is not spread to cover any property or assets of such corporation after the time such corporation becomes a Subsidiary, and (iii) the amount of Indebtedness secured thereby is not increased;
provided
 
(i)            Liens created pursuant to any Receivables Transaction permitted pursuant to ; and
subsection 7.3
 
(j)            Liens (not otherwise permitted hereunder) which secure obligations not exceeding (as to the Borrower and all Subsidiaries) $100,000,000 in aggregate amount at any time.
 
Create, issue, incur, assume, become liable in respect of or suffer to exist any Indebtedness pursuant to any Receivables Transaction, except for Indebtedness pursuant to all Receivables Transactions in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding 20% of Consolidated Tangible Assets.
7.3          Limitation on Indebtedness pursuant to Receivables Transactions.
 
Enter into any merger, consolidation or amalgamation, or liquidate, wind up or dissolve itself (or suffer any liquidation or dissolution),
7.4          Limitation on Fundamental Changes.
or convey, sell, lease, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of, all or substantially all of its property, business or assets, except:
 
(a)           any Subsidiary of the Borrower may be merged or consolidated with or into the Borrower ( that the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving corporation) or with or into any one or more wholly owned Subsidiaries of the Borrower ( that the wholly owned Subsidiary or Subsidiaries shall be the continuing or surviving corporation);
provided
provided
 
(b)           the Borrower or any wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower may sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any or all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Borrower or any other wholly owned Subsidiary, and, so long as no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would occur as a result thereof, the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower may sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any or all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to any non-wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower for fair market value;
 
(c)           any non-wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower may sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any or all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Borrower or any wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower for fair market value or may sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any or all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to any other non-wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower; and
 
(d)           the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower may be merged or consolidated with or into another Person; that the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving corporation and no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would occur as a result thereof (and, in the case of any such transaction involving a Subsidiary, such Subsidiary shall continue to be a Subsidiary or the Borrower shall have received fair market value therefor as determined by the Board of Directors of the Borrower); and that the Borrower may not be merged or consolidated with or into any Subsidiary.
provided
provided
further
 
Permit any Subsidiaries which are not Guarantors to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, assume or guaranty, or otherwise become or remain directly or indirectly liable with respect to, any Indebtedness (other than, with respect to BSC International Holdings Limited, the Term Loans (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in excess of 20% of Consolidated Tangible Assets in the aggregate at any time for all such Subsidiaries that are not Guarantors, except for (i) Indebtedness permitted by hereof and (ii) any Indebtedness of any Subsidiary of the Borrower owing to the Borrower or to any other Subsidiary of the Borrower.
7.5          Limitation on Indebtedness of Subsidiaries.
subsection 7.3
 
If any of the following events shall occur and be continuing:
 
(a)           The Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Interim Loan when due in accordance with the terms thereof or hereof; or the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Interim Loan, or any fee or other amount payable hereunder, within five days after any such interest or other amount becomes due in accordance with the terms thereof or hereof; or
 
(b)           Any representation or warranty made or deemed made by either of the Borrower herein or in any other Loan Document or which is contained in any certificate, document or financial or other statement furnished by it at any time under or in connection with this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect on or as of the date made or deemed made; or
 
(c)           The Borrower shall default in the observance or performance of any covenant contained in , or in ; or
subsections 6.4(b)
6.7(a)
Section 7
 
(d)           The Borrower or any Guarantor shall default in the observance or performance of any other agreement contained in this Agreement (other than as provided above in this Section) or any Guarantee, and such default described in this clause (d) shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days; or
 
(e)           The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall: (i) default in any payment of principal of or interest of any Indebtedness (other than the Loans) or in the payment of any Guarantee Obligation, beyond the period of grace, if any, provided in the instrument or agreement under which such Indebtedness or Guarantee Obligation was created; or (ii) default in the observance or performance of any other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness or Guarantee Obligation or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event shall occur or condition exist, the effect of which default or other event or condition is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee Obligation (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity or such Guarantee Obligation to become payable; , , that no Default or Event of Default shall exist under this paragraph unless the aggregate amount of Indebtedness and/or Guarantee Obligations in respect of which any default or other event or condition referred to in this paragraph shall have occurred shall be equal to at least $100,000,000; or
provided
however
 
(f)            (i) The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall commence any case, proceeding or other action (A) under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, domestic or foreign, relating to bankruptcy, examination, insolvency, reorganization or relief of debtors, seeking to have an order for relief entered with respect to it, or seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, winding-up,
liquidation, dissolution, composition or other relief with respect to it or its debts, or (B) seeking appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator or other similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its assets, or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (ii) there shall be commenced against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries any case, proceeding or other action of a nature referred to in clause (i) above which (A) results in the entry of an order for relief or any such adjudication or appointment or (B) remains undismissed, undischarged or unbonded for a period of 60 days; or (iii) there shall be commenced against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries any case, proceeding or other action seeking issuance of a warrant of attachment, execution, distraint or similar process against all or any substantial part of its assets which results in the entry of an order for any such relief which shall not have been vacated, discharged, or stayed or bonded pending appeal within 60 days from the entry thereof; or (iv) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall take any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any of the acts set forth in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) above; or (v) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall generally not or shall admit in writing its inability to, pay its debts as they become due; or
 
(g)           (i) Any Person shall engage in any "prohibited transaction" (as defined in Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code) involving any Plan, (ii) any "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived, shall exist with respect to any Plan or any Lien in favor of the PBGC or a Plan shall arise on the assets of the Borrower or any Commonly Controlled Entity, (iii) a Reportable Event shall occur with respect to, or proceedings shall commence to have a trustee appointed, or a trustee shall be appointed, to administer or to terminate, any Single Employer Plan, which Reportable Event or commencement of proceedings or appointment of a trustee is likely to result in the termination of such Plan for purposes of Title IV of ERISA, (iv) any Single Employer Plan shall terminate for purposes of Title IV of ERISA, (v) the Borrower or any Commonly Controlled Entity shall incur any liability in connection with a withdrawal from, or the Insolvency or Reorganization of, a Multiemployer Plan or (vi) any other event or condition shall occur or exist with respect to a Plan; and in each case in clauses (i) through (vi) above, such event or condition, together with all other such events or conditions, if any, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; or
 
(h)           Any one judgment or decree shall be entered against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries involving in the aggregate a liability (not paid or in excess of the amount recoverable by insurance) of $75,000,000 (net of any related tax benefit) or more, and such judgment or decree shall not have been vacated, discharged, stayed or bonded pending appeal within 60 days from the entry thereof; or
 
(i)            (i) Any Person or "group" (within the meaning of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) (A) shall have acquired beneficial ownership of 30% or more of any outstanding class of Capital Stock having ordinary voting power in the election of directors of the Borrower (other than Peter M. Nicholas and John E. Abele or any of their affiliated trust holdings) or (B) shall obtain the power
(whether or not exercised) to elect a majority of the Borrower's directors; or (ii) the Board of Directors of the Borrower shall not consist of a majority of Continuing Directors; "" shall mean the directors of the Borrower on the Closing Date and each other director, if such other director's nomination for election to the Board of Directors of the Borrower is recommended by a majority of the then Continuing Directors;
Continuing Directors
 
then, and in any such event, (A) if such event is an Event of Default specified in clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (e) above with respect to the Borrower, automatically the Commitments shall immediately terminate and the Interim Loans hereunder (with accrued interest thereon) and all other amounts owing under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall immediately become due and payable, and (B) if such event is any other Event of Default, either or both of the following actions may be taken: (i) with the consent of the Majority Lenders, the Administrative Agent may, or upon the request of the Majority Lenders, the Administrative Agent shall, by notice to the Borrower declare the Commitments to be terminated forthwith, whereupon the Commitments shall immediately terminate; and (ii) with the consent of the Majority Lenders, the Administrative Agent may, or upon the request of the Majority Lenders, the Administrative Agent shall, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Interim Loans hereunder (with accrued interest thereon) and all other amounts owing under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to be due and payable forthwith, whereupon the same shall immediately become due and payable.
 
 
Each Lender hereby irrevocably designates and appoints the Administrative Agent as the agent of such Lender under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and each Lender irrevocably authorizes the Administrative Agent, in such capacity, to take such action on its behalf under the provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and to exercise such powers and perform such duties as are expressly delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, together with such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary elsewhere in this Agreement, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or responsibilities, except those expressly set forth herein, or any fiduciary relationship with any Lender, and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into this Agreement or any other Loan Document or otherwise exist against the Administrative Agent.
9.1          Appointment.
 
The Administrative Agent may execute any of its duties under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents by or through agents or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to advice of counsel concerning all matters pertaining to such duties. The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agents or attorneys in-fact selected by it with reasonable care.
9.2          Delegation of Duties.
 
Neither any Agent nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates shall be (i) liable for any action lawfully taken or omitted to be taken by it or such Person under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document (except for its or such Person's own gross negligence or willful misconduct)
9.3          Exculpatory Provisions.
or (ii) responsible in any manner to any of the Lenders for any recitals, statements, representations or warranties made by the Borrower or any officer thereof contained in this Agreement or any other Loan Document or in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by such Agent under or in connection with, this Agreement or any other Loan Document or for the value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or for any failure of the Borrower to perform their obligations hereunder or thereunder. No Agent shall be under any obligation to any Lender to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or performance of any of the agreements contained in, or conditions of, this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or to inspect the properties, books or records of the Borrower.
 
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any Note, writing, resolution, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, telecopy, telex or teletype message, statement, order or other document or conversation believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons and upon advice and statements of legal counsel (including, without limitation, counsel to the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent may deem and treat the payee of any Note as the owner thereof for all purposes unless a written notice of assignment, negotiation or transfer thereof shall have been filed with the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under this Agreement or any other Loan Document unless it shall first receive such advice or concurrence of the Majority Lenders as it deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Lenders against any and all liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action. The Administrative Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents in accordance with a request of the Majority Lenders, and such request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the Lenders and all future holders of the Interim Loans.
9.4          Reliance by Administrative Agent.
 
The Administrative Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default hereunder unless the Administrative Agent has received notice from a Lender or the Borrower referring to this Agreement, describing such Default or Event of Default and stating that such notice is a "notice of default". In the event that the Administrative Agent receives such a notice, the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall take such action with respect to such Default or Event of Default as shall be reasonably directed by the Majority Lenders; that unless and until the Administrative Agent shall have received such directions, the Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Default or Event of Default as it shall deem advisable in the best interests of the Lenders.
9.5          Notice of Default.
provided
 
Each Lender expressly acknowledges that neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates has made any representations or warranties to it and that no act by the Administrative Agent hereinafter taken, including any review of the affairs
9.6          Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders.
of the Borrower, shall be deemed to constitute any representation or warranty by the Administrative Agent to any Lender. Each Lender represents to the Administrative Agent that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Borrower and made its own decision to make its Interim Loans hereunder and enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also represents that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and to make such investigation as it deems necessary to inform itself as to the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Borrower. Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly required to be furnished to the Lenders by the Administrative Agent hereunder, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty or responsibility to provide any Lender with any credit or other information concerning the business, operations, property, condition (financial or otherwise), prospects or creditworthiness of the Borrower which may come into the possession of the Administrative Agent or any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates.
 
The Lenders agree to indemnify the Administrative Agent (or sub-agent), in its capacity, and any Related Party acting for the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent) in connection with such capacity (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower and without limiting the obligation of the Borrower to do so), ratably according to their respective Aggregate Exposure Percentages in effect on the date on which indemnification is sought (or, if indemnification is sought after the date upon which the Commitments shall have terminated and the Interim Loans shall have been paid in full, ratably in accordance with such Aggregate Exposure Percentages immediately prior to such date), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind whatsoever which may at any time (including, without limitation, at any time following the payment of the Interim Loans) be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent) or such Related Party in any way relating to or arising out of, the Commitments, this Agreement, any of the other Loan Documents or any documents contemplated by or referred to herein or therein or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or any action taken or omitted by the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent) or such Related Party under or in connection with any of the foregoing; that no Lender shall be liable for the payment of any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements which are found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrative Agent (or sub-agent) or any Related Party acting for the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent) in connection with such capacity. The agreements in this subsection shall survive the payment of the Interim Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
9.7          Indemnification.
provided
 
The Administrative Agent and its Affiliates may make loans to, accept deposits from and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower as though the Administrative Agent were not the Administrative
9.8          Administrative Agent in Its Individual Capacity.
Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents. With respect to the Interim Loans made by it, the Administrative Agent shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents as any Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and the terms "Lender" and "Lenders" shall include the Administrative Agent in its individual capacity.
 
The Administrative Agent may resign as Administrative Agent upon 10 days' notice to the Lenders. If the Administrative Agent shall resign as Administrative Agent under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, then the Majority Lenders shall appoint from among the Lenders a successor agent for the Lenders, which successor agent ( that it shall have been approved by the Borrower), shall succeed to the rights, powers and duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder. Upon the earlier of (i) the 10 day period following the Administrative Agent's notice of resignation to the Lenders and (ii) the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The term "Administrative Agent" shall mean such successor agent, and the former Administrative Agent's rights, powers and duties as Administrative Agent shall be terminated, without any other or further act or deed on the part of such former Administrative Agent or any of the parties to this Agreement or any holders of the Interim Loans. After any retiring Administrative Agent's resignation as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
9.9          Successor Administrative Agent.
provided
Section 9
 
None of the Arrangers, the Bookrunners, the Syndication Agent or the Documentation Agents shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement other than those applicable to all Lenders as such. Without limiting the foregoing, none of the Arrangers, the Bookrunners, the Syndication Agent or the Documentation Agents shall have or be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship with any Lender. Each Lender acknowledges that it has not relied, and will not rely, on the Arrangers, the Bookrunners, the Syndication Agent or the Documentation Agents in deciding to enter into this Agreement or in taking or not taking any action hereunder.
9.10        The Arrangers, the Bookrunners, the Syndication Agent and the Documentation Agents.
 
 
Neither this Agreement nor any other Loan Document, nor any terms hereof or thereof may be amended, supplemented or modified except in accordance with the provisions of this subsection. The Majority Lenders may, or, with the written consent of the Majority Lenders, the Administrative Agent may, from time to time, (a) enter into with the Borrower written amendments, supplements or modifications hereto and to the other Loan Documents for the purpose of adding any provisions to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or changing in any manner the rights of the Lenders or of the Borrower hereunder or
10.1        Amendments and Waivers.
thereunder or (b) waive, on such terms and conditions as the Majority Lenders or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, may specify in such instrument, any of the requirements of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or any Default or Event of Default and its consequences; , , that no such waiver and no such amendment, supplement or modification shall (i) reduce the amount or extend the scheduled date of maturity of any Interim Loan, or reduce the stated rate or amount of any interest or fee payable hereunder or extend the scheduled date of any payment thereof or increase the amount or extend the expiration date of any Lender's Commitment or modify the pro rata distribution of payments, proceeds or fees payable to the Lenders, in each case without the consent of each Lender affected thereby, (ii) amend, modify or waive any provision of this subsection or reduce the percentages specified in the definitions of Majority Lenders, or consent to the assignment or transfer by the Borrower of any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, in each case without the written consent of all the Lenders, or (iii) amend, modify or waive any provision of without the written consent of the then Administrative Agent. Any such waiver and any such amendment, supplement or modification shall apply equally to each of the Lenders and shall be binding upon the Borrower, the Lenders, the Administrative Agent and all future holders of the Interim Loans. In the case of any waiver, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, and any Default or Event of Default waived shall be deemed to be cured and not continuing; no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
provided
however
Section 9
 
10.2        Notices.
 
(a)           . All notices, requests and demands to or upon the respective parties hereto to be effective shall be in writing (including by facsimile transmission) and, unless otherwise expressly provided herein, shall be deemed to have been duly given or made (a) in the case of delivery by hand, when delivered, (b) in the case of delivery by mail, three days after being deposited in the mails, postage prepaid, or (c) in the case of delivery by facsimile transmission, when sent and receipt has been confirmed, addressed as follows in the case of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and as set forth in in the case of the other parties hereto, or to such other address as may be hereafter notified by the respective parties hereto:
General
Schedule I
 
If to the Borrower:
 
Boston Scientific Corporation One Boston Scientific Place Natick, Massachusetts  01760 Attention: Lawrence C. Best
Executive Vice President, Finance & Administration and Chief Financial Officer
Fax:  508-650-8951
with a copy to:
 
Paul Sandman Executive Vice President, General Counsel Fax:  508-650-8960
 
If to the Administrative Agent (for payments and notices of borrowings, etc.):
 
Bank of America, N.A. 2001 Clayton Road CA4-702-02-25 Concord, CA  94520 Attn:  Jesse Phalen Phone:  925-675-8395 Fax:  888-969-9228 Email:  jesse.c.phalen@bankofamerica.com
 
Wiring Instructions:
 
Bank of America, N.A. New York, NY ABA# 026-009-593 Acct# 3750836479 Attn:  Credit Services/Jesse Phalen Ref:  Boston Scientific Corp
 
If to the Administrative Agent (for other notices):
 
Bank of America, N.A. 1455 Market Street Mail Code:  CA5-701-05-19 San Francisco, CA  94103 Attn:  Kevin Ahart Phone:  415-436-2750 Fax:  415-503-5000 Email:  kevin.ahart@bankofamerica.com
 
that any notice, request or demand to or upon the Administrative Agent or the Lenders pursuant to shall not be effective until received.
provided
subsection 3.2
 
(b)           Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to and if such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Section by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to
provided
Section 2
3
accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
 
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
 
(c)           . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE."  THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
 
No failure to exercise and no delay in exercising, on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Lender, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
10.3        No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies.
 
All representations and warranties made hereunder, in the other Loan Documents and in any document, certificate or statement
10.4        Survival of Representations and Warranties.
delivered pursuant hereto or in connection herewith shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of the Interim Loans hereunder.
 
The Borrower agrees (a) to pay or reimburse each of the Arrangers and the Administrative Agent for all their reasonable and documented out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with the development, preparation and execution of, and any amendment, supplement or modification to, this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and any other documents prepared in connection herewith or therewith, and the consummation and administration of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, including, without limitation, the reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, (b) to pay or reimburse each Lender, the Arrangers and the Administrative Agent for all its costs and expenses incurred in connection with the enforcement or preservation of any rights under this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and any such other documents, including, without limitation, the documented fees and disbursements of counsel (including the allocated fees and expenses of in-house counsel) to each Lender and of counsel to the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, , that in connection with any workout or restructuring, the Borrower shall pay the fees and disbursements of (i) U.S. counsel for the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders pursuant to this clause (b), (c) to pay, indemnify, and hold each Lender and the Administrative Agent and each of their affiliates and their respective officer, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an "") harmless from, any and all recording and filing fees and any and all liabilities with respect to, or resulting from any delay in paying, stamp, excise and other taxes, if any, which may be payable or determined to be payable in connection with the execution and delivery of, or consummation or administration of any of the transactions contemplated by, or any amendment, supplement or modification of, or any waiver or consent under or in respect of, this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and any such other documents, and (d) to pay, indemnify, and hold each indemnified party harmless from and against any and all other liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever with respect to the Transactions (or any transactions related thereto), and the execution, delivery, enforcement, performance and administration of this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and such other documents, including, without limitation, any of the foregoing relating to the violation of, noncompliance with or liability under, any Environmental Law applicable to the operations of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any of the Properties (all the foregoing in this clause (d), collectively, the ""), that the Borrower shall have no obligation hereunder to any indemnified party with respect to indemnified liabilities arising from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such indemnified party determined in a court of competent jurisdiction in a final non-appealable judgment. The agreements in this subsection shall survive repayment of the Interim Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
10.5        Payment of Expenses and Taxes.
provided
indemnified party
indemnified liabilities
provided
 
10.6        Successors and Assigns; Participations and Assignments.
 
(a)           This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Lenders, the Administrative Agent and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower may not assign or transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of each Lender.
(b)           Any Lender, other than a Conduit Lender, may, in the ordinary course of its commercial banking business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time sell to one or more banks or other entities ("") participating interests in any Interim Loan owing to such Lender, any Commitment of such Lender or any other interest of such Lender hereunder and under the other Loan Documents. In the event of any such sale by a Lender of a participating interest to a Participant, such Lender's obligations under this Agreement to the other parties to this Agreement shall remain unchanged, such Lender shall remain solely responsible for the performance thereof, such Lender shall remain the holder of any such Interim Loan for all purposes under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. No Lender shall be entitled to create in favor of any Participant, in the participation agreement pursuant to which such Participant's participating interest shall be created or otherwise, any right to vote on, consent to or approve any matter relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document except for those specified in clauses (i) and (ii) of the proviso to . The Borrower agrees that if amounts outstanding under this Agreement are due or unpaid, or shall have been declared or shall have become due and payable upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, each Participant shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, be deemed to have the right of setoff in respect of its participating interest in amounts owing under this Agreement to the same extent as if the amount of its participating interest were owing directly to it as a Lender under this Agreement, that, in purchasing such participating interest, such Participant shall be deemed to have agreed to share with the Lenders the proceeds thereof as provided in as fully as if it were a Lender hereunder. The Borrower also agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and with respect to its participation in the Commitments and the Interim Loans outstanding from time to time as if it was a Lender; that, in the case of , such Participant shall have complied with the requirements of said subsection and , , that no Participant shall be entitled to receive any greater amount pursuant to any such subsection than the transferor Lender would have been entitled to receive in respect of the amount of the participation transferred by such transferor Lender to such Participant had no such transfer occurred.
Participants
subsection 10.1(b)
provided
subsection 10.7(a)
subsections 3.9
3.10
3.11
provided
subsection 3.10
provided
further
 
(c)           Any Lender, other than a Conduit Lender, may, in the ordinary course of its commercial banking business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time and from time to time, assign (i) to any Lender or any Lender Affiliate with the consent (in each case, not to be unreasonably withheld) of the Administrative Agent or (ii) with the consent of the Borrower (unless a Default or an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing), the Administrative Agent (which consent in each case shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned), to an additional bank, financial institution, or other entity (an "") all or any part of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance, substantially in the form of , executed by such Assignee, such assigning Lender (and, in the case of an Assignee that is not a Lender or a Lender Affiliate, by the Administrative Agent) and delivered to the Administrative Agent for its acceptance and recording in the Register, that, except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or a Lender Affiliate or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitments or Interim Loans, the amount of the Commitments or Interim Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption
Assignee
Exhibit D
provided
with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 (or such lesser amount as may be agreed to by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent). Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date determined pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the Assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder with Commitments as set forth therein, and (y) the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such assigning Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the indemnity and expense reimbursement provisions in the Loan Documents arising out of the period prior to the assignment). Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Conduit Lender may assign at any time to its designating Lender hereunder without the consent of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent any or all of the Interim Loans it may have funded hereunder and pursuant to its designation agreement and without regard to the limitations set forth in the first sentence of this .
subsection 10.6(c)
 
(d)           The Administrative Agent, on behalf of the Borrower, shall maintain at the address of the Administrative Agent referred to in a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register (the "") for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitments of, and principal amount of the Interim Loans owing to, each Lender from time to time. The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, in the absence of manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as the owner of an Interim Loan or other obligation hereunder as the owner thereof for all purposes of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, notwithstanding any notice to the contrary. Any assignment of any Interim Loan or other obligation hereunder not evidenced by a Note shall be effective only upon appropriate entries with respect thereto being made in the Register. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
subsection 10.2
Register
 
(e)           Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an Assignee (and, in the case of an Assignee that is not then a Lender or a Lender Affiliate, by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent) together with payment to the Administrative Agent of a registration and processing fee of $4,000, the Administrative Agent shall (i) promptly accept such Assignment and Acceptance and (ii) on the effective date determined pursuant thereto record the information contained therein in the Register and give notice of such acceptance and recordation to the Lenders and the Borrower.
 
(f)            The Borrower authorizes each Lender to disclose to any Participant or Assignee (each, a "") and any prospective Transferee, subject to the provisions of , any and all financial information in such Lender's possession concerning the Borrower and its Affiliates which has been delivered to such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or which has been delivered to such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower in connection with such Lender's credit evaluation of such Borrower and its Affiliates prior to becoming a party to this Agreement.
Transferee
subsection 10.14
(g)           For avoidance of doubt, the parties to this Agreement acknowledge that the provisions of this subsection concerning assignments of Interim Loans and Notes relate only to absolute assignments and that such provisions do not prohibit assignments creating security interests, including, without limitation, any pledge or assignment by a Lender of any Interim Loan or Note to any Federal Reserve Bank in accordance with applicable law.
 
10.7        Adjustments; Set-off.
 
(a)           If any Lender (a "") shall at any time receive any payment of all or part of its Interim Loans then due and owing, or interest thereon, or receive any collateral in respect thereof (whether voluntarily or involuntarily, by set-off, pursuant to events or proceedings of the nature referred to in , or otherwise), in a greater proportion than any such payment to or collateral received by any other Lender (other than to the extent expressly provided herein), if any, in respect of such other Lender's Interim Loans then due and owing, or interest thereon, such benefited Lender shall purchase for cash from the other Lenders a participating interest in such portion of each such other Lender's Interim Loan owing to it, or shall provide such other Lenders with the benefits of any such collateral, or the proceeds thereof, as shall be necessary to cause such benefited Lender to share the excess payment or benefits of such collateral or proceeds ratably with each of the Lenders; , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment or benefits is thereafter recovered from such benefited Lender, such purchase shall be rescinded, and the purchase price and benefits returned, to the extent of such recovery, but without interest.
benefited Lender
subsection 8(f)
provided
however
 
(b)           In addition to any rights and remedies of the Lenders provided by law, each Lender shall have the right, without prior notice to the Borrower, any such notice being expressly waived by the Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law, upon any amount becoming due and payable by the Borrower hereunder (whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) to set-off and appropriate and apply against such amount any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final), in any currency, and any other credits, indebtedness or claims, in any currency, in each case whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, at any time held or owing by such Lender or any Affiliate, branch or agency thereof to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent after any such set-off and application made by such Lender, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application.
provided
 
This Agreement may be executed by one or more of the parties to this Agreement on any number of separate counterparts (including by facsimile transmission), and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument. A set of the copies of this Agreement signed by all the parties shall be lodged with the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
10.8        Counterparts.
 
Any provision of this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
10.9        Severability.
This Agreement and the other Loan Documents represent the agreement of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders with respect to the subject matter hereof, and there are no promises, undertakings, representations or warranties by the Administrative Agent or any Lender relative to subject matter hereof not expressly set forth or referred to herein or in the other Loan Documents.
10.10      Integration.
 
10.11      GOVERNING LAW
. THIS AGREEMENT AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
. The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally:
10.12      Submission To Jurisdiction; Waivers
 
(a)           submits for itself and its property in any legal action or proceeding relating to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which it is a party, or for recognition and enforcement of any judgment in respect thereof, to the non-exclusive general jurisdiction of the Courts of the State of New York, the courts of the United States of America for the Southern District of New York, and appellate courts from any thereof;
 
(b)           consents that any such action or proceeding may be brought in such courts and waives any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the venue of any such action or proceeding in any such court or that such action or proceeding was brought in an inconvenient court and agrees not to plead or claim the same;
 
(c)           agrees that service of process in any such action or proceeding may be effected by mailing a copy thereof by registered or certified mail (or any substantially similar form of mail), postage prepaid, to the Borrower at its address set forth in or at such other address of which the Administrative Agent shall have been notified pursuant thereto;
subsection 10.2
 
(d)           agrees that nothing herein shall affect the right to effect service of process in any other manner permitted by law or shall limit the right to sue in any other jurisdiction; and
 
(e)           waives, to the maximum extent not prohibited by law, any right it may have to claim or recover in any legal action or proceeding referred to in this subsection any special, exemplary, punitive or consequential damages.
 
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that:
10.13      Acknowledgements.
 
(a)           it has been advised by counsel in the negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents;
 
(b)           neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender has any fiduciary relationship with or duty to the Borrower arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, and the relationship between the Administrative
Agent and Lenders, on the one hand, and the Borrower, on the other hand, in connection herewith or therewith is solely that of debtor and creditor; and
 
(c)           no joint venture is created hereby or by the other Loan Documents or otherwise exists by virtue of the transactions contemplated hereby among the Lenders or among the Borrower and the Lenders.
 
Each Lender agrees to keep confidential any Information (a) provided to it by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or (b) obtained by such Lender based on a review of the books and records of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; that nothing herein shall prevent any Lender from disclosing any such Information (i) to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, (ii) to any Transferee or prospective Transferee which receives such Information having been made aware of the confidential nature thereof and having agreed to abide by the provisions of this , (iii) to its employees, directors, agents, attorneys, accountants and other professional advisors, and to employees and officers of its Affiliates who agree to be bound by the provisions of this and who have a need for such Information in connection with this Agreement or other transactions or proposed transactions with the Borrower, (iv) upon the request or demand of any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over such Lender, (v) in response to any order of any court or other Governmental Authority or as may otherwise be required pursuant to any Requirement of Law, (vi) subject to an agreement to comply with the provisions of this subsection, to any actual or prospective counter-party (or its advisors) to any Hedge Agreement, (vii) which has been publicly disclosed other than in breach of this Agreement, or (viii) in connection with the exercise of any remedy hereunder.
10.14      Confidentiality.
provided
subsection 10.14
subsection 10.14
 
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
 
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledge that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
 
10.15      WAIVERS OF JURY TRIAL
. THE BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND THE LENDERS HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVE TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AND FOR ANY COUNTERCLAIM THEREIN.
Each Lender and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act.
10.16      USA Patriot Act Notice.
Patriot Act
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered by their proper and duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
Natick, MA (April 21, 2006)  Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced that it has completed its combination with Guidant Corporation (NYSE: GDT), creating a global leader in cardiovascular devices and one of the largest medical technology companies in the world.
 
In a related transaction before the closing of the Boston Scientific-Guidant transaction, Guidant and Abbott closed the acquisition by Abbott of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular businesses.
 
"This is a momentous day for the employees and stockholders of the new Boston Scientific, as well as for thousands of physicians and millions of patients around the world," said Pete Nicholas, Chairman of Boston Scientific. "As we begin this new chapter in Boston Scientific's history, we are committed to building on our long, mutual tradition of technological innovation that helps physicians provide life-saving treatments to their patients. We are also committed to maintaining a culture that values initiative, creativity and collaboration  and that recognizes the talents and contributions of people who make a difference for our company and our customers."
 
"We are looking forward to realizing the substantial benefits of combining Boston Scientific and Guidant," said Jim Tobin, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific. "The new Boston Scientific will be a broadly diversified medical technology company that we believe will command a market valuation closer to our peers and generate significant upside potential for our stockholders. We are confident the integration will proceed smoothly, and we extend a warm welcome to the Guidant employees who are joining us. I know that together we can and we will build a successful future."
 
Effective as of the close of trading today, trading in Guidant's common stock will cease.
 
Guidant shareholders should expect to receive information in the coming weeks regarding the exchange of their Guidant common stock.
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit: www.bostonscientific.com.
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are identified by words such as "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "expects", "intends", "may", "projects", "plans", "will" and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially, including risk factors relating to our industry as detailed from time to time in each of Boston Scientific's and Guidant's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including each such company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Unless legally required, Boston Scientific undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements herein, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Milan Kofol (508-650-8569)
Investor Relations, Boston Scientific Corporation
 
Paul Donovan (508-650-8541)
Media Relations, Boston Scientific Corporation
 
Steve Frankel / Steve Silva (212-355-4449)
Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of April 21, 2006, between BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association, as trustee (the "").
Company
Trustee
 
The Company and the Trustee entered into an Indenture, dated as of November 18, 2004 (the "" and, as hereby supplemented and amended, the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured senior or unsubordinated debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein and in the Base Indenture called the "Securities") in one or more series.
Base Indenture
Indenture
 
Pursuant to the Indenture, the Company issued $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Securities of a series designated as the 5.50% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes"), all of which are outstanding on the date hereof.
 
Paragraph (2) of Section 901 of the Base Indenture provides that the Company, when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may, without the consent of any Holders, enter into an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities and any related coupons (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power in the Base Indenture conferred upon the Company.
 
For and in consideration of the premises contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged by the Company and the Trustee, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate and benefit solely of the Holders of the 2015 Notes, as follows:
 
This First Supplemental Indenture shall be effective upon the date hereof and from and after the date hereof shall constitute an integral part of the Base Indenture.
Section 101.
                               
Relation to Base Indenture.  
 
For all purposes of this First Supplemental Indenture:
Section 102.
                               
Additional Definitions
.
 
(a)
                                 
All references herein to Articles and Sections, unless otherwise specified, refer to the corresponding Articles and Sections of this First Supplemental Indenture.
 
(b)
                                
The terms "herein," "hereof," "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this First Supplemental Indenture.
(c)
                                 
Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meaning specified herein or in the Base Indenture, as the case may be.
 
"" means 5.50% per annum.
Base Interest Rate
 
means the ratings of the Company's senior unsecured long-term debt assigned to it by Fitch, Moody's, S&P, or any NRSRO, as applicable.
"Credit Rating"
 
"" means the occurrence, at any time following a One-Time Credit Rating Change, of a Rating Change such that the lowest Credit Rating assigned to the 2015 Notes by any of Fitch, Moody's, or S&P following such Rating Change is higher than the lowest rating assigned to the 2015 Notes by any of Fitch, Moody's, or S&P immediately prior to such Rating Change.
Credit Rating Upgrade
 
"" means Fitch, Inc. or its successor.
Fitch
 
"" means the Base Interest Rate plus the amount of any Interest Rate Adjustment upon the occurrence of any One-Time Credit Rating Change and any subsequent Credit Rating Upgrade as set forth in Section 201(d) herein.
Increased Interest Rate
 
"" means the applicable percentage rate listed in the first column of the table set forth in Section 201(g) hereof.
Interest Rate Adjustment
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or its successor.
Moody's
 
term is used in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules andregulations promulgated thereunder.
"" means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization as such
NRSRO
          
           
 
"" means the occurrence of one or more of the following Rating Changes :
One-Time Credit Rating Change
 
(i)
                                    
the Credit Rating assigned to the 2015 Notes by Fitch is below A-; or
 
(ii)
                                 
the Credit Rating assigned to the 2015 Notes by Moody's is below A3; or
 
(iii)
                              
the Credit Rating assigned to the 2015 Notes by S&P is below A-;
 
that such occurrence is solely as a direct result of the closing of the Company's acquisition of Guidant Corporation pursuant to and in accordance with the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 25, 2006, among the Company, Galaxy Merger Sub, Inc. and Guidant Corporation (the ""), as determined by the Company, based immediately upon the announcements of Fitch, Moody's and S&P, respectively, following the Acquisition Closing.
provided,
Acquisition Closing
 
A "" means a change to the Credit Rating assigned to the 2015 Notes by Fitch, Moody's or S&P, upon or subsequent to the Acquisition Closing.
Rating Change
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill, Inc. or its successor.
S&P
 
Section 201.
                               
Interest, Interest Rates  and Interest Rate Adjustment
 
(a)
                                 
The 2015 Notes shall bear interest at the Base Interest Rate, that subject to the Acquisition Closing, the Base Interest Rate shall be subject to adjustment as provided in this Section 201 from the date hereof tobut excluding the Maturity of the 2015 Notes.
provided however,
 
(b)
                                
If a One-Time Credit Rating Change occurs, then the Base Interest Rate shall be adjusted as set forth in this Section 201(g); , , that in no event shall the Base Interest Rate be adjusted upward more than once.
provided
however
 
(c)
                                 
If a Credit Rating Upgrade occurs, then the Increased Interest Rate per year payable on the 2015 Notes shall be decreased as set forth in Section 201(g); , that if at any time following the One-Time Credit Rating Change the lowest of the three Credit Ratings assigned to the 2015 Notes:
provided, however
 
(i)
                                    
by Fitch is above BBB+;
 
(ii)
                                 
by Moody's is above Baa1 ; or
 
(iii)
                              
by S&P is above BBB+;
 
then the  interest rate payable per year on the 2015 Notes shall be permanently reset to the Base Interest Rate and the provisions of Article One and Article Two of this First Supplemental Indenture shall permanently cease to apply.
 
Subject to Section 201(e) below, there shall be no limit on the number of times that the Increased Interest Rate payable on the 2015 Notes may be decreased upon the occurrence of an Credit Rating Upgrade ; that in no event shall the interest rate payable on the 2015 Notes be less than the Base Interest Rate.
provided, however,
 
(d)
                                
Any increase in the interest rate payable on the 2015 Notes resulting from an occurrence of a One-Time Credit Rating Change as set forth in Section 201(g) hereof shall be deemed to have occurred on and shall take effect from November 17, 2005, and such additional accrued interest shall be paid to the persons in whose names the 2015 Notes are registered at the close of business on May 1 or November 1, as the case may be, preceding such Interest Payment Date immediately following the date on which the One-Time Credit Rating Change occurred.
 
(e)
                                 
Any decrease in the Increased Interest Rate payable on the 2015 Notes resulting from an occurrence of a Credit Rating Upgrade as set forth in Section 201(c) hereof (including the reset of the interest rate to the Base Interest Rate pursuant to Section 201(c) above) shall take effect beginning on the first Interest Payment Date immediately following the date of the Rating Change.
(f)
                                   
In the event that all of Fitch, Moody's, or S&P shall have discontinued, withdrawn or suspended their Credit Ratings of the 2015 Notes and the Company shall not have replaced such rating agencies with another NRSRO, then the Company shall select an NRSRO to act as a substitute credit rating agency, and the equivalent Credit Rating assigned to the 2015 Notes by that NRSRO shall be substituted for the Credit Rating assigned to the 2015 Notes by each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P.
 
(g)
                                
If the Credit Rating assigned to the 2015 Notes by Fitch, Moody's, or S&P, as applicable, changes to a Credit Rating set out below then the interest payable on the 2015 Notes shall be the Base Interest Rate plus the Interest Rate Adjustment set forth opposite the lowest rating assigned by any of Fitch, Moody's, or S&P in effect at such time:
 
This First Supplemental Indenture is executed and shall be construed as an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture and, as provided in the Base Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture forms a part of the Base Indenture. The Base Indenture, as amended and supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed.
Section 301.
                               
 
This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Section 302.
                               
 
THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE 2015 NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK .
Section 303.
                               
This First Supplemental Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of the Indenture and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions. If any provision in this First Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included herein by any provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.
Section 304.
                               
 
In case any provision in this First Supplemental Indenture or the 2015 Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 305.
                               
 
The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture. The recitals and statements herein are deemed to be those of the Company and not those of the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness.
Section 306.
                               
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, as of the day and year first written above.
 
 

Exhibit 99.5
 
April 24, 2006
 
Dear Noteholder,
 
Notice is hereby given that Boston Scientific Corporation (the "Company") has increased the interest rate on its $400 million 5.50% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes"), from 5.50% to 6.25% . The Company elected to increase the interest rate due to the closing of the Company's acquisition of Guidant Corporation.
 
The increase in the interest rate shall accrue from November 17, 2005 and shall be paid to the persons in whose names the 2015 Notes are registered at the close of business on May 1, 2006.
 
Pursuant to a supplemental indenture entered into between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, Trustee under the indenture relating to the 2015 Notes, subsequent upgrades to the Company's long-term senior, unsecured debt credit ratings may result in a decrease in the interest rate of the 2015 Notes, but in no event will the interest rate payable on the 2015 Notes be adjusted below 5.50%.
 
While the federal income tax treatment of the interest rate adjustment is not clear, the Company intends to take the position that any additional interest payable to holders of the 2015 Notes should be reported when received or accrued, depending on the holder's regular method of tax accounting. Holders of 2015 Notes should be aware that the Internal Revenue Service could assert a contrary position, potentially giving rise to differences in the timing, amount and character of reportable income in respect of the notes. The supplement to the terms of the 2015 Notes also may result in a deemed exchange of the 2015 Notes for "new" notes for federal income tax purposes, in which case the Company expects that the exchange would constitute a recapitalization that generally is tax-free to holders of the 2015 Notes. In the event of such a deemed exchange, the 2015 Notes might be treated for federal income tax purposes as having original issue discount, which could affect the timing of the reporting of income by holders who purchased the 2015 Notes at less than the original issue price.
Circular 230:
 
Any discussion of federal income tax issues in this notice should be construed as provided in connection with the promotion and marketing of the matters described herein. Such discussion  is not intended to be used, and cannot be used, by a holder of 2015 Notes or any other person for the purpose of avoiding federal income tax penalties. Holders of 2015 Notes and other persons should seek tax advice based upon their particular circumstances from independent tax advisors.

Exhibit 99.6
 
 
 
SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of April 21, 2006, between BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association, as trustee (the "").
Company
Trustee
 
The Company and the Trustee entered into an Indenture, dated as of November 18, 2004 (the "" and, as hereby supplemented and amended, the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured senior or unsubordinated debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein and in the Base Indenture called the "Securities") in one or more series.
Base Indenture
Indenture
 
Pursuant to the Indenture, the Company issued $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Securities of a series designated as the 6.25% Senior Notes due 2035 (the "2035 Notes"), all of which are outstanding on the date hereof.
 
Paragraph (2) of Section 901 of the Base Indenture provides that the Company, when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may, without the consent of any Holders, enter into an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities and any related coupons (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power in the Base Indenture conferred upon the Company.
 
For and in consideration of the premises contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged by the Company and the Trustee, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate and benefit solely of the Holders of the 2035 Notes, as follows:
 
 
 
. This Second Supplemental Indenture shall be effective upon the date hereof and from and after the date hereof shall constitute an integral part of the Base Indenture.
Section 101.
                               
Relation to Base Indenture
 
. For all purposes of this Second Supplemental Indenture:
Section 102.
                               
Additional Definitions
 
All references herein to Articles and Sections, unless otherwise specified, refer to the corresponding Articles and Sections of this Second Supplemental Indenture.
(a)
                                 
 
The terms "herein," "hereof," "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Second Supplemental Indenture.
(b)
                                
Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meaning specified herein or in the Base Indenture, as the case may be.
(c)
                                 
 
"" means 6.25% per annum.
Base Interest Rate
 
means the ratings of the Company's senior unsecured long-term debt assigned to it by Fitch, Moody's, S&P, or any NRSRO, as applicable.
"Credit Rating"
                     
 
"" means the occurrence, at any time following a One-Time Credit Rating Change, of a Rating Change such that the lowest Credit Rating assigned to the 2035 Notes by any of Fitch, Moody's, or S&P following such Rating Change is higher than the lowest rating assigned to the 2035 Notes by any of Fitch, Moody's, or S&P immediately prior to such Rating Change.
Credit Rating Upgrade
 
"" means Fitch, Inc. or its successor.
Fitch
 
"" means the Base Interest Rate plus the amount of any Interest Rate Adjustment upon the occurrence of any One-Time Credit Rating Change and any subsequent Credit Rating Upgrade as set forth in Section 201(d) herein.
Increased Interest Rate
 
"" means the applicable percentage rate listed in the first column of the table set forth in Section 201(g) hereof.
Interest Rate Adjustment
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or its successor.
Moody's
 
term is used in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
"" means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization as such
NRSRO
          
 
"" means the occurrence of one or more of the following Rating Changes :
One-Time Credit Rating Change
 
the Credit Rating assigned to the 2035 Notes by Fitch is below A-; or
(i)
                                    
 
the Credit Rating assigned to the 2035 Notes by Moody's is below A3; or
(ii)
                                 
 
the Credit Rating assigned to the 2035 Notes by S&P is below A-;
(iii)
                              
 
that such occurrence is solely as a direct result of the closing of the Company's acquisition of Guidant Corporation pursuant to and in accordance with the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 25, 2006, among the Company, Galaxy Merger Sub, Inc. and Guidant Corporation (the ""), as determined by the Company, based immediately upon the announcements of Fitch, Moody's and S&P, respectively, following the Acquisition Closing.
provided,
Acquisition Closing
 
A "" means a change to the Credit Rating assigned to the 2035 Notes by Fitch, Moody's or S&P, upon or subsequent to the Acquisition Closing.
Rating Change
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of McGraw Hill, Inc. or its successor.
S&P
 
 
(a) The 2035 Notes shall bear interest at the Base Interest Rate, that subject to the Acquisition Closing, the Base Interest Rate shall be subject to adjustment as provided in this Section 201 from the date hereof tobut excluding the Maturity of the 2035 Notes.
Section 201.
                               
Interest, Interest Rates and Interest Rate Adjustment
provided however,
 
If a One-Time Credit Rating Change occurs, then the Base Interest Rate shall be adjusted as set forth in this Section 201(g); , , that in no event shall the Base Interest Rate be adjusted upward more than once.
(b)
                                
provided
however
 
If a Credit Rating Upgrade occurs, then the Increased Interest Rate per year payable on the 2035 Notes shall be decreased as set forth in Section 201(g); , that if at any time following the One-Time Credit Rating Change the lowest of the three Credit Ratings assigned to the 2035 Notes:
(c)
                                 
provided, however
 
by Fitch is above BBB+;
(i)
                                    
 
by Moody's is above Baa1 ; or
(ii)
                                 
 
by S&P is above BBB+;
(iii)
                              
 
then the  interest rate payable per year on the 2035 Notes shall be permanently reset to the Base Interest Rate and the provisions of Article One and Article Two of this Second Supplemental Indenture shall permanently cease to apply.
 
Subject to Section 201(e) below, there shall be no limit on the number of times that the Increased Interest Rate payable on the 2035 Notes may be decreased upon the occurrence of an Credit Rating Upgrade ; that in no event shall the interest rate payable on the 2035 Notes be less than the Base Interest Rate.
provided, however,
 
Any increase in the interest rate payable on the 2035 Notes resulting from an occurrence of a One-Time Credit Rating Change as set forth in Section 201(g) hereof shall be deemed to have occurred on and shall take effect from November 17, 2005, and such additional accrued interest shall be paid to the persons in whose names the 2035 Notes are registered at the close of business on May 1 or November 1, as the case may be, preceding such Interest Payment Date immediately following the date on which the One-Time Credit Rating Change occurred.
(d)
                                
 
Any decrease in the Increased Interest Rate payable on the 2035 Notes resulting from an occurrence of a Credit Rating Upgrade as set forth in Section 201(c) hereof (including the reset of the interest rate to the Base Interest Rate pursuant to Section 201(c) above) shall take effect beginning on the first Interest Payment Date immediately following the date of the Rating Change.
(e)
                                 
In the event that all of Fitch, Moody's, or S&P shall have discontinued, withdrawn or suspended their Credit Ratings of the 2035 Notes and the Company shall not have replaced such rating agencies with another NRSRO, then the Company shall select an NRSRO to act as a substitute credit rating agency, and the equivalent Credit Rating assigned to the 2035 Notes by that NRSRO shall be substituted for the Credit Rating assigned to the 2035 Notes by each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P.
(f)
                                   
 
If the Credit Rating assigned to the 2035 Notes by Fitch, Moody's, or S&P, as applicable, changes to a Credit Rating set out below then the interest payable on the 2035 Notes shall be the Base Interest Rate plus the Interest Rate Adjustment set forth opposite the lowest rating assigned by any of Fitch, Moody's, or S&P in effect at such time:
(g)
                                
 
 
This Second Supplemental Indenture is executed and shall be construed as an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture and, as provided in the Base Indenture, this Second Supplemental Indenture forms a part of the Base Indenture. The Base Indenture, as amended and supplemented by this Second Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed.
Section 301.
                               
 
This Second Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Section 302.
                               
 
THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE 2035 NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Section 303.
                               
This Second Supplemental Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of the Indenture and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions. If any provision in this Second Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included herein by any provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.
Section 304.
                               
 
In case any provision in this Second Supplemental Indenture or the 2035 Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 305.
                               
 
The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Second Supplemental Indenture. The recitals and statements herein are deemed to be those of the Company and not those of the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness.
Section 306.
                               
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Second Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, as of the day and year first written above.
 
 

Exhibit 99.7
 
April 24, 2006
 
Dear Noteholder,
 
Notice is hereby given that Boston Scientific Corporation (the "Company") has increased the interest rate on its $350 million 6.25% Senior Notes due 2035 (the "2035 Notes"), from 6.25% to 7.00% . The Company elected to increase the interest rate due to the closing of the Company's acquisition of Guidant Corporation.
 
The increase in the interest rate shall accrue from November 17, 2005 and shall be paid to the persons in whose names the 2035 Notes are registered at the close of business on May 1, 2006.
 
Pursuant to a supplemental indenture entered into between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, Trustee under the indenture relating to the 2035 Notes, subsequent upgrades to the Company's long-term senior, unsecured debt credit ratings may result in a decrease in the interest rate of the 2035 Notes, but in no event will the interest rate payable on the 2035 Notes be adjusted below 6.25%.
 
While the federal income tax treatment of the interest rate adjustment is not clear, the Company intends to take the position that any additional interest payable to holders of the 2035 Notes should be reported when received or accrued, depending on the holder's regular method of tax accounting. Holders of 2035 Notes should be aware that the Internal Revenue Service could assert a contrary position, potentially giving rise to differences in the timing, amount and character of reportable income in respect of the 2035 Notes. The supplement to the terms of the 2035 Notes also may result in a deemed exchange of the 2035 Notes for "new" notes for federal income tax purposes, in which case the Company expects that the exchange would constitute a recapitalization that generally is tax-free to holders of the 2035 Notes. In the event of such a deemed exchange, the 2035 Notes might be treated for federal income tax purposes as having original issue discount, which could affect the timing of the reporting of income by holders who purchased the 2035 Notes at less than the original issue price.
Circular 230:
 
Any discussion of federal income tax issues in this notice should be construed as provided in connection with the promotion and marketing of the matters described herein. Such discussion  is not intended to be used, and cannot be used, by a holder of 2035 Notes or any other person for the purpose of avoiding federal income tax penalties. Holders of 2035 Notes and other persons should seek tax advice based upon their particular circumstances from independent tax advisors.
 

Exhibit 99.8
 
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K of Boston Scientific Corporation of our report, dated February 10, 2006, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Guidant Corporation included in its Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the related financial statement schedule of Guidant Corporation included therein, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
Indianapolis, Indiana
April 20, 2006


