FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20060801171400.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 29, 2006, Boston Scientific Corporation entered into a settlement agreement with St. Jude Medical, Inc. resolving the following litigation matters between the companies and certain of their affiliates:
 
Pursuant to the settlement agreement, Boston Scientific
 
and St. Jude Medical have also agreed to limit the scope and available remedies of the following pending litigation:
St. Jude Medical agreed to give up certain defenses previously available to it in these cases, in exchange for Boston Scientifics agreement not to pursue certain claims and damage theories.
 
For these unresolved cases, Boston Scientific has agreed that:
 
 
 
 
For the two unresolved cases, St. Jude Medical has agreed that:
 
 
Boston Scientific affiliates have a license from Mirowski Family Ventures (MFV) to patents which are being asserted against St. Jude Medical in the Indiana and Delaware cases noted above, and MFV is a co-plaintiff in both the Indiana and Delaware cases.
As part of the settlement discussions, St. Jude Medical was granted permission to enter into discussions with MFV seeking to resolve the Indiana and Delaware cases. St. Jude Medicals efforts at negotiating a resolution of these cases with representatives of MFV were unsuccessful. However, as part of the settlement agreement, Boston Scientific has agreed to provide St. Jude Medical with a license to the MFV patent portfolio, and dismiss the Delaware and Indiana cases for no royalty or other consideration payable to Boston Scientific, if MFV reaches a settlement of the Indiana and Delaware cases with St. Jude Medical in the future.
In addition, Boston Scientific has granted St. Jude Medical an option to obtain a non-exclusive, worldwide sublicense to the MFV patent portfolio upon notice by St. Jude Medical, provided that St. Jude Medical complies with the terms of the license Boston Scientific affiliates have with MFV (and Boston Scientific makes no payments on behalf of St. Jude Medical).
 
Boston Scientific and  St. Jude Medical have also agreed to a worldwide, royalty-free cross license, with certain limitations, of the cardiac rhythm management (CRM) patent portfolios held by the companies. With certain limited exceptions, CRM patents having a priority date on or before July 29, 2006 will be cross licensed. St. Jude Medical is excluding patents concerning certain cardiac pressure-sensing technology not presently incorporated into its devices from the cross license, and Boston Scientific is excluding patents involving certain communication technologies from the cross license.
 
St. Jude Medical and Boston Scientific have also agreed to a world-wide, royalty-free cross license, with certain limitations, of the patents involved in the Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. and Advanced Bionics Corporation litigation noted above.
 
Pursuant to the settlement agreement, Boston Scientific and St. Jude Medical  have further agreed to terminate the Distribution Agreement between Boston Scientific and Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc. for the Japanese market which those companies entered into in June 2002.
 
 
Certain covenants not to sue are also part of the settlement agreements between St. Jude Medical and Boston Scientific.
 
On July 31, 2006, Boston Scientific and St. Jude Medical issued a joint press release concerning the settlement. A copy of the joint press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant
 
to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1


