FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20060207085802.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. 
   
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On February 7, 2006, Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing financial results for the year and fourth quarter ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
ITEM 9.01. 
   
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Natick, MA (February 7, 2006) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced financial results for the year and fourth quarter ended December 31, 2005
.
2005 HIGHLIGHTS
YEAR-END 2005
Net sales for 2005 were $6.283 billion as compared to $5.624 billion in 2004, an increase of 12 percent. Worldwide coronary stent system sales for 2005 were $2.69 billion as compared to $2.35 billion in 2004, an increase of 14 percent. Worldwide sales of TAXUS
paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent systems for 2005 were $2.56 billion as compared to $2.14 billion in 2004. U.S. sales of TAXUS stent systems for 2005 were $1.76 billion as compared to $1.57 billion in 2004.
Reported net income for 2005, including net special charges, was $628 million, or $0.75 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $1.062 billion, or $1.24 per diluted share, for 2004. Reported results for 2005 included charges (after-tax) of $894 million, or $1.07 per share, which primarily related to: a litigation settlement with Medinol; purchased research and development; expenses related
 
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 2
February 7, 2006
 
to certain retirement benefits; and costs that resulted from certain business optimization initiatives. Reported results for 2004 included charges (after-tax) of $332 million, or $0.39 per share, which primarily related to: costs for a civil settlement; a one-time enhancement to the 401(k) Plan; purchased research and development; a non-cash stock option modification charge; and a charge related to taxes on the approximately $1 billion that the Company repatriated in 2005 under the American Jobs Creation Act. Net income for 2005, excluding net special charges, was $1.522 billion, or $1.82 per share, as compared to $1.394 billion, or $1.63 per share, for 2004, an increase per share of 12 percent.
We are very pleased that the Company experienced double-digit growth on a global basis during 2005, said Jim Tobin, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific. In our first full year of TAXUS sales, we continued to be the worldwide leader in drug-eluting stents in the markets we serve. During the second half of the year we launched our next-generation paclitaxel-eluting stent system, TAXUS Libert, and saw our drug-eluting stent market share settle into a sustainable leadership position. I would like to congratulate the entire Boston Scientific team for another year of considerable achievement.
 
FOURTH QUARTER 2005
Net sales for the fourth quarter of 2005 were $1.54 billion as compared to $1.60 billion for the fourth quarter of 2004. Worldwide coronary stent system sales for the fourth quarter were $640 million as compared to $730 million for the fourth quarter of 2004. Worldwide sales of TAXUS stent systems were $606 million for the fourth quarter of 2005 as compared to $691 million for the fourth quarter of 2004. U.S. sales of TAXUS coronary stent systems were $398 million for the fourth quarter of 2005 as compared to $503 million for the fourth quarter of 2004.
Net income for the fourth quarter of 2005, including net special charges, was $334 million, or $0.40 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $297 million, or $0.35 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2004. Reported results for the fourth quarter of 2005 included charges (after-tax) of $6 million, or $0.01 per share, which primarily consisted of employee-related costs that resulted from certain business optimization initiatives that commenced in the third quarter of 2005. Reported results for the fourth quarter of 2004 included charges (after-tax) of $122 million, or $0.14 per share, which primarily consisted of a $60 million non-cash charge resulting from certain stock option modifications and a $61 million charge related to taxes on the approximately $1 billion that the Company repatriated in 2005 under the American Jobs Creation Act. Net income for the fourth quarter of 2005, excluding net special charges, was $340 million, or $0.41 per share, as compared to $419 million, or $0.49 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2004.
The company plans to announce financial guidance for 2006 after the completion of its planned merger with Guidant.
Boston Scientific officials will be discussing these and other issues with analysts on a conference call at 9:00 a.m. (ET) Tuesday, February 7, 2006. The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website:
www.bostonscientific.com
. Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
 
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 3
February 7, 2006
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit:
www.bostonscientific.com
.
 
The Company discloses non-GAAP or pro forma measures that exclude certain charges. These supplemental measures exclude the impact of certain charges such as litigation settlement costs and purchased in-process research and development that are highly variable and difficult to predict. Management uses these supplemental measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Company's business and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. Since management finds these measures to be useful, the Company believes that its investors benefit from seeing the Company's results through the eyes of management in addition to seeing its GAAP results.
The Company recognizes that items such as litigation settlements can have a material impact on the Company's cash flows and net income. Although the Company believes it is useful for investors to see its core performance free of certain charges, investors should understand that the excluded items are actual expenses that impact the cash available to the Company for other uses. To gain a complete picture of all effects on the Companys profit and loss from any and all events, management does (and investors should) rely upon the GAAP income statement. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that the Company's non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
ForwardLooking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including, among other statements, statements regarding the proposed business combination between Boston Scientific Corporation and Guidant Corporation, and the anticipated consequences and benefits of such transaction. Statements made in the future tense, and words such as anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend, will, may and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, but are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and are beyond the control of Boston Scientific or Guidant. Relevant risks and uncertainties include those referenced in Boston Scientifics and Guidants filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) (which can be obtained as described in Additional Information below), and include: general industry conditions and competition; economic conditions, such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; technological advances and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in new product development, including obtaining regulatory approvals; domestic and foreign health care reforms and governmental laws and regulations; and trends toward health care cost containment. Risks and uncertainties relating to the proposed transaction include: required regulatory approvals will not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all; the proposed transaction will not be consummated; the anticipated benefits of the proposed transaction will not be realized; and the integration of Guidants
 
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 4
February 7, 2006
 
operations with Boston Scientific will be materially delayed or will be more costly or difficult than expected. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements, and therefore should be carefully considered. Neither Boston Scientific nor Guidant assumes any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Additional Information
This material is not a substitute for the prospectus/proxy statement and any other documents Boston Scientific and Guidant intend to file with the SEC.
Investors and security holders are urged to read such prospectus/proxy statement and any other such documents, when available, which will contain important information about the proposed transaction.
The prospectus/proxy statement will be, and other documents filed or to be filed by Boston Scientific and Guidant with the SEC are or will be, available free of charge at the SECs website (
www.sec.gov
) or from Boston Scientific by directing a request to Boston Scientific Corporation, One
Boston Scientific
Place, Natick, Massachusetts 01760-1537, Attention: Milan Kofol, Investor Relations, or from Guidant by directing a request to Guidant Corporation, 111 Monument Circle, 29
th
Floor, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, Attention: Investor Relations.
Neither Boston Scientific nor Guidant is currently engaged in a solicitation of proxies from the security holders of Boston Scientific or Guidant in connection with Boston Scientifics proposed acquisition of Guidant. If a proxy solicitation commences, Boston Scientific, Guidant and their respective directors, executive officers and other employees may be deemed to be participants in such solicitation. Information about Boston Scientifics directors and executive officers is available in Boston Scientifics proxy statement, dated April 4, 2005, for its 2005 annual meeting of stockholders, and information about Guidants directors and executive officers is available in Guidants most recent filing on Form 10-K. Additional information about the interests of potential participants will be included in the prospectus/proxy statement when it becomes available.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company provides adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share amounts in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding its operational performance and its prospects for the future. These supplemental measures exclude the impact of certain charges such as litigation settlement costs and purchased in-process research and development that are highly variable and difficult to predict. Management uses these supplemental measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Company's business and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. Since management finds these measures to be useful, the Company believes that its investors benefit from seeing the Company's results through the eyes of management in addition to seeing its GAAP results.
The Company recognizes that items such as litigation settlements can have a material impact on the Company's cash flows and net income. Although the Company believes it is useful for investors to see core performance free of special items, investors should understand that the excluded items are actual expenses that may impact the cash available to the Company for other uses. To gain a complete picture of all effects on the Companys net income and net income per share from any and all events, management does (and investors should) rely upon the GAAP income statement. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
Readers are therefore reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that the Company's non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
WORLDWIDE SALES
REGIONAL SUMMARY
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
WORLDWIDE SALES
DIVISIONAL SUMMARY
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
DOMESTIC SALES
DIVISIONAL SUMMARY
(Unaudited)
 


