FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20060418101921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 18, 2006, Boston Scientific Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006.
 
A copy of the release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
Exhibit No.
 
 
 
 
 
Description
99.1  
   
   
Press Release issued by Boston Scientific Corporation dated April 18, 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit
Number
 
 
 
 
 
Description
99.1    
     
  
      
Press Release dated April 18, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Natick, MA (April 18, 2006) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006.
Highlights:
Net sales for the first quarter of 2006 were $1.620 billion as compared to $1.615 billion for the first quarter of 2005. Excluding the unfavorable impact of $40 million of foreign currency fluctuations, net sales for the first quarter of 2006 increased by three percent. Worldwide sales of TAXUS paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent systems were $633 million for the first quarter of 2006 as compared to $686 million for the first quarter of 2005 and $606 million for the fourth quarter of 2005. U.S. sales of TAXUS coronary stent systems were $419 million for the first quarter of 2006 as compared to $494 million for the first quarter of 2005 and $398 million for the fourth quarter of 2005.
Net income for the first quarter of 2006 was $332 million, or $0.40 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $358 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2005. Reported results for the first quarter of 2006 included charges (after-tax) of $22 million, or $0.03 per share, for stock-based compensation due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)*, and $27 million (after-tax), or $0.03 per share, associated with investment write-downs due to the termination of a gene therapy trial. Reported results for the first quarter of 2005 included charges (after-tax) of $73 million, or $0.09 per share, for purchased research and development.
We are very pleased that we achieved record company sales for the quarter, including 15 percent year-over-year constant currency growth in our Endosurgery Group, in addition to sequential growth in worldwide TAXUS stent system sales, said Jim Tobin, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific.  This strong performance provides a solid foundation for our acquisition of Guidant, which we expect to close shortly.
 
 
 
Boston Scientific Corporation / Page 2
April 18, 2006
 
 
Boston Scientific officials will be discussing these and other issues with analysts on a conference call at 11:00 a.m. (ET) Tuesday, April 18, 2006. The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website:
www.bostonscientific.com
.
 
Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit:
www.bostonscientific.com
.
* Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (new accounting standard for stock-based compensation)
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified-prospective method. In accordance with this adoption method, the Company is not adjusting its historical financial statements to reflect the impact of stock-based compensation. Based on the pro forma application of SFAS No. 123 for the calculation of employee stock-based compensation expense prior to January 1, 2006 (as previously disclosed in the Companys consolidated financial statements), pro forma employee stock-based compensation expense in the first quarter of 2005 (after-tax) was $17 million, or $0.02 per diluted share.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements as to regulatory approvals for the merger, timing expectations to complete the merger and other statements identified by words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, may, projects, plans, will and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially, including the satisfaction of other closing conditions contained in the merger agreement and other risk factors relating to our industry as detailed from time to time in each of Boston Scientifics and Guidants reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including each such companys most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Unless legally required, Boston Scientific undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements herein, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Non-GAAP Measures
The Company discloses non-GAAP or pro forma measures that exclude certain charges. These supplemental measures exclude the impact of certain charges such as litigation settlement costs and purchased in-process research and development that are highly variable and difficult to predict. Management uses these supplemental measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Company's business and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. Since management finds this measure to be useful, the Company believes that its investors benefit from seeing the Companys results through the eyes of management in addition to seeing its GAAP results.
Boston Scientific Corporation / Page 3
April 18, 2006
 
 
The Company recognizes that these charges can have a material impact on the Companys cash flows and net income. Although the Company believes it is useful for investors to see its core performance free of certain charges, investors should understand that the excluded items are actual expenses that impact the cash available to the Company for other uses. To gain a complete picture of the Companys performance, management does (and investors should) rely upon the GAAP income statement. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
Readers are therefore reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that the Companys non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
CONTACT:          
Milan Kofol
508-650-8569
Investor Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation
Paul Donovan
508-650-8541
Media Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
WORLDWIDE SALES
REGIONAL SUMMARY
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
WORLDWIDE SALES
DIVISIONAL SUMMARY
(Unaudited)
 
 
 


