FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20070720080517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 20, 2007, Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2007.  A copy of the release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit
 
 
 
 
Pursuantto the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
Natick, MA (July 20, 2007) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2007, as well as guidance for net sales and earnings per share (EPS) for the third quarter of 2007.
 
Highlights
Net sales for the second quarter of 2007 were $2.071 billion as compared to $2.110 billion for the second quarter of 2006 and $2.086 billion for the first quarter of 2007.  On a pro-forma basis  as though the Company had acquired Guidant on January 1, 2006  net sales for the second quarter of 2006 were $2.213 billion. The second quarter 2007 operating results include the Companys Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) and Cardiac Surgery businesses, which were acquired as part of Guidant on April 21, 2006. Worldwide sales of the Companys CRM group for the second quarter of 2007 were $524 million, which included $377 million of implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) sales, as compared to CRM sales of $539 million for the first quarter of 2007, which included $398 million of ICD sales. U.S. CRM sales for the second quarter of 2007 were $332 million, which included $253 million of ICD sales, as compared to U.S. CRM sales of $349 million for the first quarter of 2007, which included $273 million of ICD sales.  International CRM sales for the second quarter of 2007 were $192 million, which included $124 million of ICD sales, as compared to International CRM sales of $190 million for the first quarter of 2007, which included $125 million of ICD sales.
On a pro-forma basis, worldwide CRM sales for the second quarter of 2006 were $529 million, which included $383 million of ICD sales. Pro-forma U.S. CRM sales for the second quarter of 2006 were $354
 million, which included $273 million of ICD sales. Pro-forma international CRM sales for the second quarter of 2006 were $175 million, which included $110 million of ICD sales.
Worldwide sales of the Companys drug-eluting coronary stent systems for the second quarter of 2007 were $437 million as compared to $647 million for the second quarter of 2006 and $468 million for the first quarter of 2007. U.S. sales of drug-eluting coronary stent systems for the second quarter of 2007 were $249 million as compared to $429 million for the second quarter of 2006 and $293 million for the first quarter of 2007.  International sales of drug-eluting stent systems for the second quarter of 2007 were $188 million as compared to $218 million for the second quarter of 2006 and $175 million for the first quarter of 2007. Worldwide sales of coronary stent systems for the second quarter of 2007 were $498 million as compared to $681 million for the second quarter of 2006 and $527 million for the first quarter of 2007. U.S. sales of coronary stent systems for the second quarter of 2007 were $275 million as compared to $440 million for the second quarter of 2006 and $317 million for the first quarter of 2007.  International sales of coronary stent systems for the second quarter of 2007 were $223 million as compared to $241 million for the second quarter of 2006 and $210 million for the first quarter of 2007.
 
GAAP net income for the second quarter of 2007 was $115 million, or $0.08 per share, on 1.5 billion weighted average shares outstanding. GAAP results for the second quarter of 2007 included net special charges (after-tax) of $9 million, or less than $0.01 per share, which consisted primarily of charges attributable to investment portfolio activity, integration of the Guidant acquisition and discrete tax items. GAAP net loss for the second quarter of 2006 was $4.262 billion, or $3.21 per share. GAAP results for the second quarter of 2006 included net special charges (after-tax) of $4.541 billion, or $3.42 per share.
Adjusted net income for the quarter, excluding net special charges and amortization and stock compensation expense, was $271 million, or $0.18 per share. Adjusted net income for the second quarter of 2006, excluding net special charges and amortization and stock compensation expense, was $412 million, or $0.31 per share.
 We made progress in a number of key areas during the quarter, said Jim Tobin, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific.  Most important, we made progress on quality throughout the organization, including the resolution of the CRM warning letter.  Both the DES and CRM markets showed signs of stabilizing, but neither has returned to the level we believe they eventually will.  We launched TAXUS Express in Japan, and we are off to a strong start in that market with impressive sales.  Our Endosurgery group posted another solid quarter, with double-digit growth in all three of its businesses.  Overall, we continue to move in the right direction.
2
Guidance for Third Quarter 2007
The Company estimates net sales for the third quarter of 2007 of between $2.0 billion and $2.1 billion. The Company estimates EPS on a GAAP basis of between $0.03 and $0.08 per share.  In the past, the reconciliation between GAAP and adjusted EPS has excluded net special charges, amortization and stock compensation expense.  Beginning in the third quarter, the Company will exclude only acquisition-related charges and amortization expense. Using this definition, the Company estimates adjusted EPS to range between $0.12 and $0.17 per share for the third quarter.  Using this definition, adjusted EPS for the second quarter would have been $0.16 per share.
Boston Scientific officials will be discussing these results with analysts on a conference call at 8:30 am. (ET) Friday, July 20, 2007. The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website: www.bostonscientific.com. Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements. The Company wishes to caution the reader of this press release that actual results may differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements and may be adversely affected by, among other things, risks associated with new product development and introduction, clinical trials, regulatory approvals, competitive offerings, intellectual property, litigation, integration of acquired companies, the Companys overall business strategy, and other factors described in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Use of non-GAAP Financial Information
* In the past, the reconciliation between GAAP and adjusted EPS has excluded net special charges, amortization and stock compensation expense.  Beginning in the third quarter, the Company will exclude only acquisition-related charges and amortization expense.
To supplement Boston Scientifics consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, the Company discloses certain non-GAAP measures that exclude certain charges, including non-GAAP net income/loss and non-GAAP net income/loss per diluted share. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the accompanying schedules. In addition, an explanation of the ways in which Boston Scientific management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its business, the substance behind Boston Scientific managements decision to use these non-GAAP measures, the material limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP measures, the manner in which Boston Scientific management compensates for those limitations, and the substantive reasons why Boston Scientific management believes that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors is included in the exhibit labeled Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
    
                                                                            CONTACT: 
Paul Donovan
508-650-8541 (office) 
508-667-5165 (mobile)
Media Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation
Dan Brennan
508-650-8538 (office)
617-459-2703 (mobile)
Investor Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation 
 
 
 
 
* Calculated by assuming option dilution of 19.8 million shares
 
 
 
 
** Calculated by assuming option dilution of 14.5 million shares
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts in the tables above may not sum or recalculate due to rounding of individual components.
 
 
 
Certain amounts in the tables above may not sum or recalculate due to rounding of individual components.
 
 
 
Actual calculation of the percentage change in net sales on a constant currency basis may differ slightly due to rounding of amounts in the tables above.
 
Actual calculation of the percentage change in net sales on a constant currency basis may differ slightly due to rounding of amounts in the tables above.
 
 
 
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement Boston Scientifics consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, the Company discloses certain non-GAAP measures that exclude certain charges, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income is GAAP net income and the GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income per diluted share is GAAP net income per diluted share. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measure are included in the accompanying schedules.
To calculate regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange, the Company converts actual current-period net sales from local currency to U.S. dollars using constant foreign exchange rates. The GAAP measure most comparable to this non-GAAP measure is growth rate percentages based on GAAP revenue. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the corresponding GAAP measure is included in the accompanying schedules.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by Boston Scientific
Management uses these supplemental non-GAAP measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Companys business, to assess its performance relative to its competitors, and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. In addition, following the Companys acquisition of Guidant, and the related increase in the Companys debt, management has heightened its focus on cash generation and debt pay down. Management uses these non-GAAP measures for the three and six month periods ending June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006 as the basis for assessing the ability of the underlying business to generate cash and pay down debt. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP measures to further its understanding of the performance of the Companys operating segments. The adjustments excluded from the Companys non-GAAP measures are consistent with those excluded from its reportable segments measure of profit or loss. These adjustments are excluded from the segment measures that are reported to the Companys chief operating decision maker and are used to make operating decisions and assess performance.
The following is an explanation of each of the adjustments that management excluded as part of its non-GAAP measures for the three and six month periods ending June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006, as well as reasons for excluding each of these individual items:
 
 
 
 
 
Material Limitations Associated with the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange may have limitations as analytical tools, and these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation or as a replacement for GAAP financial measures. Some of the limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures are:
 
 
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Boston Scientific compensates for the limitations on its non-GAAP financial measures by relying upon its GAAP results to gain a complete picture of the Companys performance. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
The Company provides detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying schedules, and Boston Scientific encourages investors to review these reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
The Company believes that providing non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors with greater transparency to the information used by Boston Scientific management for the three and six month periods ending June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006 in its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see Boston Scientifics results through the eyes of management. The Company further believes that providing this information better enables Boston Scientifics investors to understand the Companys operating performance and to evaluate the methodology used by management to evaluate and measure such performance. Disclosure of these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitates comparisons of Boston Scientifics operating performance with the performance of other companies in its industry that supplement their GAAP results with non-GAAP financial measures.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures Beginning in the Third Quarter of 2007
Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, the Company will exclude only acquisition-related charges (if any) and amortization expense from its non-GAAP measure of net income and its non-GAAP measure of net income per diluted share. Acquisition-related charges would include items discussed above in the Purchase accounting adjustments and Acquisition-related and other costs.


