FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20071019071744.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 19, 2007, Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2007.  A copy of the release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
 
On October 15, 2007, the Board of Directors of Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) approved, and the Company committed to, an expense and workforce reduction plan (the Plan), which will result in the elimination of approximately 2,300 positions worldwide.  This represents more than 13% of the Companys 18,000-person non-direct labor workforce as of June 30, 2007.  The Plan is intended to bring expenses in line with revenues and is designed to enhance short- and long-term shareholder value.  Activities under the Plan will be initiated this month and are expected to be substantially completed worldwide by the end of 2008.  The Plan includes the restructuring of several business units and product franchises in order to leverage resources, strengthen competitive positions, and create a more simplified and efficient business model.  The Company estimates that the Plan will result in total pre-tax charges of approximately $450 million to $475 million, and that approximately $400 million to $425 million of these charges will result in future cash outlays.
The following table provides a summary of the Companys estimates of costs associated with the Plan by major type of cost:
The Company estimates that $275 million to $300 million of the total charges will be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007.  The fourth quarter charges relate primarily to termination benefits recorded pursuant to FASB Statement No. 112, and asset write-offs.  The Company estimates asset write-offs in the fourth quarter of approximately $40 million.  These impairment charges relate primarily to intangible assets and fixed assets that are not recoverable following the Companys decision on October 15, 2007 to (i) commit to the Plan, including the elimination, delay or reduction of spending on certain R&D projects, and (ii) restructure several businesses.  The press release announcing the Plan is attached as Exhibit 99.2.
Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits
 
This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our expense reduction initiatives, our restructuring plans, our potential asset divestitures, and our operational and growth strategies.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
See the discussion described in Item 2.05 above with respect to the impairment charge the Company expects to record as a result of the Plan, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement Boston Scientifics consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis; the Company discloses certain non-GAAP measures that exclude certain charges, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income is GAAP net income and the GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income per diluted share is GAAP net income per diluted share. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measure are included in the accompanying schedules.
To calculate regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange, the Company converts actual current-period net sales from local currency to U.S. dollars using constant foreign exchange rates. The GAAP measure most comparable to this non-GAAP measure is growth rate percentages based on GAAP revenue. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the corresponding GAAP measure is included in the accompanying schedules.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by Boston Scientific
Management uses these supplemental non-GAAP measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Companys business, to assess its performance relative to its competitors, and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP measures to further its understanding of the performance of the Companys operating segments. The adjustments excluded from the Companys non-GAAP measures are consistent with those excluded from its reportable segments measure of profit or loss. These adjustments are excluded from the segment measures that are reported to the Companys chief operating decision maker and are used to make operating decisions and assess performance.
The following is an explanation of each of the adjustments that management excluded as part of its non-GAAP measures for the three and nine month periods ending September 30, 2007 and September 30, 2006 and for the forecasted three month period ending December 31, 2007, as well as reasons for excluding each of these individual items:
 
 
 
Material Limitations Associated with the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange may have limitations as analytical tools, and these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation or as a replacement for GAAP financial measures. Some of the limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures are:
 
 
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Boston Scientific compensates for the limitations on its non-GAAP financial measures by relying upon its GAAP results to gain a complete picture of the Companys performance. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
The Company provides detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying schedules, and Boston Scientific encourages investors to review these reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
The Company believes that presenting non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors greater transparency to the information used by Boston Scientific management for its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see Boston Scientifics results through the eyes of management. The Company further believes that providing this information better enables Boston Scientifics investors to understand the Companys operating performance and to evaluate the methodology used by management to evaluate and measure such performance. Disclosure of these non-GAAP financial measures may also facilitate comparisons of Boston Scientifics operating performance with the performance of other companies that supplement their GAAP results with non-GAAP financial measures.
 

EXHIBIT 99.2


