FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20070306111914.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 5, 2007, Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing a request for information received on March 1, 2007, from Representative Henry A. Waxman, Chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the U.S. House of Representatives, about the Companys TAXUS
paclitaxel-eluting coronary stents. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1. A form of the request letter is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.2.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
-2-
Pursuant
 
to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-3-
 
 
-4-

EXHIBIT 99.1
Natick, MA (March 5, 2007) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) released the following statement today in response to a request for information relating to its TAXUS
paclitaxel-eluting coronary stents from Representative Henry A. Waxman, Chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the U.S. House of Representatives.
We look forward to providing the Committee the information it has requested.   As the leading maker of drug-eluting stents in the United States, we have been -- and remain -- committed to providing physicians, patients and loved ones the information they need to make informed treatment decisions.
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit
www.bostonscientific.com
.
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Boston Scientific wishes to caution the reader of this press release that actual results may differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements and may be adversely affected by, among other things, risks associated with new product development and commercialization, clinical trials, intellectual property, regulatory approvals, competitive offerings, Boston Scientifics overall business strategy, and other factors described in Boston Scientifics filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
February 28, 2007
 
James Tobin
President and Chief Executive Officer
Boston Scientific Corporate Headquarters
One Boston Scientific Place
Natick, MA 01760-1537
 
Dear Mr. Tobin:
 
Concerns about the safety and off label use of drug-eluting cardiac stents were raised by a recent FDA panel.
1
As part of the Committees ongoing oversight of the medical device industrys research and marketing practices, I am writing to request information about these concerns and drug-eluting cardiac stents.
 
The Committee requests that Boston Scientific provide the following information relating to Taxus stents:
 
 
1
FDA,
Circulatory System Devices Panel Meeting
(Dec. 7-8, 2006);
The Case Against Stents: New Studies Hint at Overuse,
Wall Street Journal (Jan. 23, 2007).
James Tobin
February 28, 2007
Page 2
 
 
 
James Tobin
February 28, 2007
Page 3
 
Cardiovascular Research Foundation, the Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapuetics or the Society of Cardiovascular Angiography; and
 
The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform is the principal oversight committee in the House of Representatives and has broad oversight jurisdiction as set forth in House Rule X. An attachment to this letter provides additional information on how to respond to the Committees request.
 
I request that you provide these documents by March 21, 2007. If you have any questions regarding this request, please contact Stephen Cha with the Committee staff at (202) 225
-5056.
 
Enclosure


