FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20080520083144.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the fling obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[    ]   Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[    ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[    ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[    ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02.  DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
Appointment of Chief Accounting Officer
On May 19, 2008, Jeffrey D. Capello, age 43, agreed to join Boston Scientific as our Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, effective as of June 16, 2008.  Mr. Capello comes to us from PerkinElmer, a $1.8 billion public company, where he spent the past seven years serving in a variety of roles. Most recently, he served for the last three years as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, responsible for all financial matters, investor relations and corporate wide business development activities. Prior to his current position, he served as Corporate Controller and Treasurer for four years.  Previously, Mr. Capello served as an audit partner with PriceWaterhouseCoopers, including a 2 year assignment in the Netherlands, with a focus on serving technology and industrial companies.  Mr. Capello holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration from the University of Vermont and a Masters of Business Administration degree from Harvard University and is a CPA.
In connection with his employment with Boston Scientific, Mr. Capello will receive:
 
 
 
 
In the event Mr. Capello is involuntarily terminated from employment other than for Cause during the first two years of his employment, Mr. Capello will receive a special payment equivalent to the combined annual salary he is then receiving and the incentive bonus (at target) for which he is then eligible.
Assuming Mr. Capello is successfully performing in his role and is capable of taking on additional responsibilities, as determined by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, they will recommend to our Board of Directors in June 2009 that Mr. Capello be promoted to serve as a member of our Executive Committee.
In addition, as a member of our Operating Committee, Mr. Capello will be entitled to receive an annual executive allowance of $15,000 payable in two equal installments of $7,500 each in the last pay periods of June and December 2008, except for the first payment in 2008 which will be pro-rated, pursuant to our Executive Allowance Plan, which has been previously filed.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuantto the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 


