FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20080721170309.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the fling obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
On July 21, 2008, Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2008.  A copy of the release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 

Natick, MA (July 21, 2008) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2008, as well as guidance for net sales and earnings per share (EPS) for the third quarter of 2008. 
Second quarter highlights:
We were pleased with the quarter, especially with our expense management and working capital initiatives, which resulted in excellent earnings leverage and improved cash flow, said Jim Tobin, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific.  The performance of our CRM group was particularly impressive, with double-digit growth and a number of important product approvals, including FDA approval for the COGNIS CRT-D and the TELIGEN ICD, two breakthrough technologies.  Our Neuromodulation and Endosurgery groups also posted double-digit increases.  In addition, we have now received FDA approval of our PROMUS Everolimus-Eluting Coronary Stent System, making us the only company to offer two distinct drug platforms.
TM
 
 
Net sales for the second quarter of 2008 were $2.024 billion, including sales from divested businesses of $19 million and a reduction of $22 million in revenue as a result of recording an increase in our sales return reserve in anticipation of our new drug-eluting stent platforms, as compared to sales of $2.071 billion for the second quarter of 2007, including sales from divested businesses of $139 million.
Worldwide sales of the Companys drug-eluting coronary stent systems for the second quarter of 2008 were $382 million, as compared to $437 million for the second quarter of 2007.  U.S. sales of these systems were $175 million, as compared to $249 million.  International sales of these systems were $207 million, as compared to $188 million.  Worldwide sales of coronary stent systems were $440 million for the second quarter of 2008, as compared to $498 million for the second quarter of 2007.  U.S. sales of these systems were $200 million, as compared to $275 million.  International sales of these systems were $240 million, as compared to $223 million.
Worldwide sales of the Companys CRM products for the second quarter of 2008 were $578 million, which included $420 million of implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) sales, as compared to worldwide CRM sales of $524 million for the second quarter of 2007, which included $377 million of ICD sales.  U.S. CRM product sales were $364 million, which included $276 million of ICD sales, as compared to $332 million, which included $253 million of ICD sales.  International CRM sales were $214 million, which included $144 million of ICD sales, as compared to $192 million, which included $124 million of ICD sales.
Reported net income for the second quarter of 2008 was $98 million, or $0.07 per share.  Reported results included acquisition-, divestiture- and restructuring-related charges and amortization expense (after-tax) of $206 million, or approximately $0.13 per share, which consisted of the following:
Adjusted net income for the quarter, excluding these amounts, was $304 million, or $0.20 per share.
2
Reported net income for the second quarter of 2007 was $115 million, or $0.08 per share.  Reported results for the second quarter of 2007 included acquisition-related charges and amortization expense (after-tax) of $127 million, or approximately $0.08 per share.  Adjusted net income for the second quarter of 2007, excluding these charges, was $242 million, or $0.16 per share.
Guidance for Third Quarter 2008
The Company estimates net sales for the third quarter of 2008 of between $1.950 billion and $2.060 billion.  Adjusted net income, excluding acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation- and restructuring-related charges and amortization expense, is estimated to range between $0.14 and $0.19 per share.  The Company estimates reported net income on a GAAP basis of between $0.18 and $0.23 per share.  Included in the Companys estimated reported net income on a GAAP basis is approximately $0.12 per share of gains associated with the receipt of an acquisition-related milestone payment, $0.01 per share of expected gains related to the sale of the Companys non-strategic investments, $0.02 per share of restructuring-related costs and $0.07 per share of amortization expense.
Boston Scientific management will be discussing these results with analysts on a conference call at 8:30 a.m. (ET) Tuesday, July 22, 2008. The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website: .  Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
www.bostonscientific.com
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our financial performance, our programs to increase shareholder value, new product approvals, acquisitions and divestitures, our growth strategy, market recovery and our market position.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and, future business decisions made by us and our competitors.  All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control.  For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties
 
 
 
3
that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item IA- in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file thereafter.  We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Risk Factors
Risk Factors
Use of non-GAAP Financial Information
 
A reconciliation of the Company's non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures, and an explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures, is included in the exhibits attached to this press release.
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
NON-GAAP NET INCOME AND NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE RECONCILIATIONS
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
NON-GAAP NET INCOME AND NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE RECONCILIATIONS
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
Growth rates are based on actual, non-rounded amounts.
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
Growth rates are based on actual, non-rounded amounts.
 
 
13
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement Boston Scientifics condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis; the Company discloses certain non-GAAP measures that exclude certain amounts, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income is GAAP net income and the GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income per diluted share is GAAP net income per diluted share. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measure are included in the accompanying schedules.
To calculate regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange, the Company converts actual current-period net sales from local currency to U.S. dollars using constant foreign exchange rates. The GAAP measure most comparable to this non-GAAP measure is growth rate percentages based on GAAP revenue. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the corresponding GAAP measure is included in the accompanying schedules.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by Boston Scientific
Management uses these supplemental non-GAAP measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Companys business, to assess its performance relative to its competitors, and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP measures to further its understanding of the performance of the Companys operating segments. The adjustments excluded from the Companys non-GAAP measures are consistent with those excluded from its reportable segments measure of profit or loss. These adjustments are excluded from the segment measures that are reported to the Companys chief operating decision maker and are used to make operating decisions and assess performance.
The following is an explanation of each of the adjustments that management excluded as part of its non-GAAP measures for the three and six month periods ending June 30, 2008 and June 30, 2007 and for the forecasted three month period ending September 30, 2008, as well as reasons for excluding each of these individual items:
17
Material Limitations Associated with the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange may have limitations as analytical tools, and these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation or as a replacement for GAAP financial measures. Some of the limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures are:
18
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Boston Scientific compensates for the limitations on its non-GAAP financial measures by relying upon its GAAP results to gain a complete picture of the Companys performance. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
The Company provides detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying schedules, and Boston Scientific encourages investors to review these reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
The Company believes that presenting non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors greater transparency to the information used by Boston Scientific management for its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see Boston Scientifics results through the eyes of management. The Company further believes that providing this information better enables Boston Scientifics investors to understand the Companys operating performance and to evaluate the methodology used by management to assess and measure such performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19


