FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20080421171055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                
 
                                                                                                                                                
 
                                                                                                                 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
    Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
On April 21, 2008, Boston Scientific Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2008, as well as guidance for net sales and earnings per share for the second quarter of 2008.  A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuantto the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Natick, MA (April 21, 2008) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2008, as well as guidance for net sales and earnings per share (EPS) for the second quarter of 2008. 
First quarter highlights:
We continued to make good progress during the quarter, particularly in our efforts to bring expenses in line with revenues, said Jim Tobin, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific.  Our earnings benefited from our ongoing expense management and were also helped by favorable tax items.  Despite the arrival of a third DES competitor in the United States, we held our leadership positions in both the U.S. and worldwide markets.  Our six CRM product approvals were exciting news, and they will contribute to our future growth in that market.  The performance of our Neuromodulation group was impressive, and our Endosurgery group turned in another solid quarter.  Our progress furthered our goals of restoring profitable sales growth, increasing shareholder value and strengthening Boston Scientific for the future.
Net sales for the first quarter of 2008 were $2.046 billion, including sales from divested businesses of $32 million, as compared to $2.086 billion for the first quarter of 2007, including sales from divested businesses of $135 million.
 
 
 
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 2
April 21, 2008
 
 
Worldwide sales of the Companys drug-eluting coronary stent systems for the first quarter of 2008 were $428 million, as compared to $468 million for the first quarter of 2007.  U.S. sales of these systems were $218 million, as compared to $293 million.  International sales of these systems were $210 million, as compared to $175 million.  Worldwide sales of coronary stent systems were $490 million, as compared to $527 million.  U.S. sales of these systems were $244 million, as compared to $317 million.  International sales of these systems were $246 million, as compared to $210 million.
Worldwide sales of the Companys CRM products for the first quarter of 2008 were $565 million, which included $411 million of implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) sales, as compared to worldwide CRM sales of $539 million for the first quarter of 2007, which included $398 million of ICD sales.  U.S. CRM product sales were $356 million, which included $274 million of ICD sales, as compared to $349 million, which included $273 million of ICD sales.  International CRM sales were $209 million, which included $137 million of ICD sales, as compared to $190 million, which included $125 million of ICD sales.
Reported net income for the first quarter of 2008 was $322 million, or $0.21 per share.  Reported results included net charges (after-tax) of $35 million, or approximately $0.03 per share, for acquisition and restructuring-related charges and amortization expense, net of divestiture-related gains, which consisted of the following:
Adjusted net income for the quarter, excluding these amounts, was $357 million, or $0.24 per share.  Included in reported and adjusted net income was $43 million, or $0.03 per share, of favorable discrete income tax items, and $8 million of income, or $0.01 per share, associated with divested businesses.
Reported net income for the first quarter of 2007 was $120 million, or $0.08 per share.  Reported results for the first quarter of 2007 included charges associated with the Companys 2006 acquisition of Guidant Corporation and amortization expense (pre-tax) of $180 million, or approximately $0.09 per share.  Adjusted net income for the first quarter of 2007, excluding these charges and amortization expense, was $262 million, or $0.17 per share.
Guidance for Second Quarter 2008
The Company estimates net sales for the second quarter of 2008 of between $1.950 billion and $2.075 billion.  Adjusted net income, excluding acquisition, divestiture, litigation and restructuring-related charges, and amortization expense, is estimated to range between $0.14 and $0.19 per share.  The Company estimates reported net income on a GAAP basis of between $0.04 and $0.09 per share.
 
 
 
2
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 3
April 21, 2008
 
 
Boston Scientific management will be discussing these results with analysts on a conference call at 8:30 a.m. (ET) Tuesday, April 22, 2008. The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website: .  Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
www.bostonscientific.com
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our financial performance, our programs to increase shareholder value, new product approvals, business divestitures, our growth strategy, market recovery and our market position.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and, future business decisions made by us and our competitors.  All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control.  For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item IA- in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file thereafter.  We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Risk Factors
Risk Factors
Use of non-GAAP Financial Information
 
A reconciliation of the Company's non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures, and an explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures, is included in the exhibits attached to this press release.
 
 
 
3
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 4
April 21, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
4
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 5
April 21, 2008
 
 
NON-GAAP NET INCOME AND NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE RECONCILIATIONS
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 6
April 21, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 7
April 21, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 8
April 21, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Growth rates are based on actual, non-rounded amounts.
 
 
8
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 9
April 21, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
9
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 10
April 21, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 11
April 21, 2008
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement Boston Scientifics consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis; the Company discloses certain non-GAAP measures that exclude certain amounts, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income is GAAP net income and the GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income per diluted share is GAAP net income per diluted share. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measure are included in the accompanying schedules.
To calculate regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange, the Company converts actual current-period net sales from local currency to U.S. dollars using constant foreign exchange rates. The GAAP measure most comparable to this non-GAAP measure is growth rate percentages based on GAAP revenue. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the corresponding GAAP measure is included in the accompanying schedules.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by Boston Scientific
Management uses these supplemental non-GAAP measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Companys business, to assess its performance relative to its competitors, and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP measures to further its understanding of the performance of the Companys operating segments. The adjustments excluded from the Companys non-GAAP measures are consistent with those excluded from its reportable segments measure of profit or loss. These adjustments are excluded from the segment measures that are reported to the Companys chief operating decision maker and are used to make operating decisions and assess performance.
The following is an explanation of each of the adjustments that management excluded as part of its non-GAAP measures for the three month periods ending March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2007 and for the forecasted three month period ending June 30, 2008, as well as reasons for excluding each of these individual items:
 
 
 
 
11
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 12
April 21, 2008
 
 
Material Limitations Associated with the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange may have limitations as analytical tools, and these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation or as a replacement for GAAP financial measures. Some of the limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures are:
 
 
 
12
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 13
April 21, 2008
 
 
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Boston Scientific compensates for the limitations on its non-GAAP financial measures by relying upon its GAAP results to gain a complete picture of the Companys performance. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
The Company provides detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying schedules, and Boston Scientific encourages investors to review these reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
The Company believes that presenting non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors greater transparency to the information used by Boston Scientific management for its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see Boston Scientifics results through the eyes of management. The Company further believes that providing this information better enables Boston Scientifics investors to understand the Companys operating performance and to evaluate the methodology used by management to evaluate and measure such performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13


