FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20090120172111.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the fling obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[   ]  Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[   ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[   ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[   ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 8.01.  OTHER EVENTS.
On January 15, 2009, we announced a decision by the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The case involves one of our patents, which in part is directed to drug-eluting stents and coating systems.  In the decision, the Court found that the patent was invalid as obvious over the prior art.  The case was an appeal by Johnson and Johnson of a 2005 jury verdict in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware that found the patent was valid and infringed by Johnson and Johnsons Cypher Sirolimus-Eluting Stent System.
 
We are considering our options for challenging the decision. 
A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
.                               
Exhibit  No
Description
 
Pursuantto the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
 
 
 
.                               
Exhibit  No
Description
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
Boston Scientific Announces Court Decision
 
Natick, MA (January 15, 2009) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced a decision by the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.  The case involves a Boston Scientific patent, which in part is directed to drug-eluting stents and coating systems.  In the decision, the Court found that the patent was invalid as obvious over the prior art.  The case was an appeal by Johnson and Johnson of a 2005 jury verdict in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware that found the patent was valid and infringed by Johnson and Johnsons Cypher Sirolimus-Eluting Stent System.
 
Boston Scientific said it is considering its options for challenging the decision. 
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties.  For more information, please visit: .   
www.bostonscientific.com
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding intellectual property litigation and competitive offerings.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements. 
 
 
 
 
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and, future business decisions made by us and our competitors.  All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control.  For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item 1A  in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file thereafter.  We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Risk Factors
Risk Factors
 
 
CONTACT:
 
 
Paul Donovan
508-650-8541 (office)
508-667-5165 (mobile)
Media Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation
 
 
Larry Neuman
508-650-8696 (office)
Investor Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation
 
 
 
 


