FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20090226172514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the fling obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
ITEM 1.01. ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
   
 
On February 20, 2009, we amended our term loan and revolving credit facility agreement to increase flexibility under our financial covenants and to support our previously announced plant network optimization and other expense reduction initiatives.  The amendment provides for exclusions, through the credit agreement maturity in April 2011, from the defined calculation of consolidated EBITDA including up to $346 million in restructuring charges,  any litigation-related charges and credits until these items are paid or received,  up to $1.137 billion of any cash payments for litigation settlements or damage awards (net of any litigation payments received), and all cash payments for litigation settlements (net of litigation payments received) related to amounts that were recorded in our financial statements before January 1, 2009.  At the same time, we prepaid $500 million of our term loan and reduced our revolving credit facility by $250 million.  As a result, our next debt maturity of $325 million is due in April 2010. In addition, the agreement provides for an increase in interest rates on our term loan borrowings from LIBOR plus 1.00 percent to LIBOR plus 1.75 percent at current credit ratings and increases the fee on unused facilities from 0.175 percent to 0.500 percent.
 
A copy of the amendment is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1.
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
   
Today we announced updated financial results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2008. Subsequent to the release of earnings on January 28, 2009, we accrued for a patent litigation settlement and, as expected, finalized a previously announced goodwill impairment charge.  In accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, these events are required to be recorded in the fourth quarter as they occurred after the January 28, 2009 earnings release and before the filing of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The patent litigation settlement resulted in a pre-tax charge of $23 million ($18 million after-tax).  The finalization of the goodwill impairment charge reflected a $54 million credit (on both a pre-tax and after-tax basis) and resulted in a final charge of $2.613 billion compared to the previously reported charge of $2.667 billion.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
- 2 - -
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
ITEM 9.01.            FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
- 3 - -
Pursuantto the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - -
 
 
- 5 - -
 

 
SECOND AMENDMENT, dated as of February 20, 2009 (this ), to the Credit Agreement, dated as
Amendment
of April 21, 2006 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ), among (i) BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ), (ii) BSC INTERNATIONAL HOLDING LIMITED, a company incorporated under the laws of Ireland (the ), (iii) the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto (the ), (iv) MERRILL LYNCH CAPITAL CORPORATION, as Syndication Agent (the ), (v) BEAR STEARNS CORPORATE LENDING INC., DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC. and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Co-Documentation Agents (each in such capacity, a , and collectively, the ), and (vi) BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent for the Lenders thereunder (in such capacity, the ).
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Term Loan Borrower
Lenders
Syndication Agent
Documentation Agent
Documentation Agents
Administrative Agent
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Term Loan Borrower, the Lenders, the Syndication Agent, the Documentation Agents and the Administrative Agent are parties to the Credit Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS, the Borrowers have requested that the Lenders amend the Credit Agreement as set forth herein; and
 
WHEREAS, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent are willing to agree to such amendment to the Credit Agreement, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants contained herein, the Borrowers, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
SECTION 1.1
 
Defined Terms.
  Terms defined in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
 
SECTION 1.2
 
Amendments to Subsection 1.1 (Definitions)
.  (a)  The definition of the term Applicable Margin in subsection 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
:  with respect to each day for each Type of Loan, the rate per annum based on the Ratings in effect on such day, as set forth under the relevant column heading below:
Applicable Margin
 
 
 
 
 
(b)
 
The definition of the term Consolidated EBITDA in subsection 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the current definition with the following:
 
:  of any Person for any period, Consolidated Net Income of such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period , without duplication and to the extent reflected as a charge in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
 
(a) income tax expense, including any expenses resulting from income tax disputes with a Governmental Authority,
 
(b) Consolidated Interest Expense of such Person and its Subsidiaries, amortization or writeoff of debt discount and debt issuance costs and commissions, discounts and other fees and charges associated with Indebtedness,
 
(c) depreciation expense,
 
(d) amortization or write-down of intangibles (including, but not limited to, goodwill) and organization costs,
 
(e) (i) any extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring expenses or losses (to the extent any of the foregoing are non-cash items) (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business and including special charges and purchased research and development charges in connection with acquisitions and other strategic alliances, inventory step-up charges, and unrealized investment impairments), and (ii) net litigation-related charges and credits until such items are paid or received (at such time as such items are paid or received, as applicable, such cash payments shall be subtracted from Consolidated Net Income and such cash receipts shall be added to Consolidated Net Income),
 
(f) any non-cash stock compensation expense in accordance with FAS123(r),
 
(g) with regard to any period ending March 31, 2009 through March 31, 2011 any cash litigation costs, including judgments, orders, awards, settlements and related legal costs paid during such period (net of any cash litigation or settlement payments received during such period) (Cash Litigation Charges), that, solely for the purposes of this definition, the aggregate amount of Cash Litigation Charges under this clause (g) shall not exceed the sum of $1,137,000,000 plus all cash payments (net of cash receipts) related to amounts that were recorded in the financial statements of the Borrower before January 1, 2009,
provided
 
(h) with regard to any period ending March 31, 2009 through March 31, 2011 any cash or non-cash charges in respect of restructurings, plant closings, staff reductions, distributor network optimization initiatives, distribution technology optimization initiatives or other similar charges, provided that, solely for the purposes of this definition, the aggregate amount of all charges under this clause (h) shall not exceed $346,000,000 in the aggregate, and
 
(i) any income or expense associated with business combinations following the adoption of FASB Statement No. 141(R), "Business Combinations - a replacement of FASB Statement No. 141", which would have been treated as a cost of the acquisition (e.g., as goodwill) under FASB Statement No. 141, "Business Combinations",
 
 
 
 
and , to the extent included in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of
minus
 
(a) interest income (except to the extent deducted in determining Consolidated Interest Expense), and
 
(b) any extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring income or gains (to the extent any of the foregoing are non-cash items) (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, gains on the sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business, inventory step-up charges, and unrealized investment impairments).
 
Consolidated EBITDA shall be calculated on a Pro Forma Basis to give effect to the Acquisition as if the Acquisition had been effected on the first day of such period.
 
(c)
 
The definition of the term Excess Utilization Day in subsection 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted.
 
(d)
 
The definition of the term Facility Fee Rate in subsection 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
:  for each day during each calculation period, the rate per annum based on the Ratings in effect on such day, as set forth below:
Facility Fee Rate
 
 
SECTION 1.3
 
Conditions to Effectiveness
.  This Amendment shall become effective on the date (the ) on which (a) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Majority Lenders shall have executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent this Amendment, (b) the Borrowers shall have prepaid, or shall have made arrangements to prepay substantially simultaneously with this Amendment becoming effective, the Term Loans in the aggregate amount of not less than $500,000,000 (which prepayment shall be applied in accordance with Section 3.7(a) of the Credit Agreement, the Lenders hereby agreeing to waive the four Business Day notice provision set forth in Section 3.1(a)), (c) the Borrower shall have reduced, or shall have made arrangements to reduce substantially simultaneously with this Amendment being effective, the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments in an amount of not less than $250,000,000 (which reduction shall be made in accordance with Section 2.9 of the Credit Agreement, the Lenders hereby agreeing to waive the five Business Day notice provision set forth in such Section) and (d) all fees payable to Banc of America Securities LLC and any Lender shall have been paid.
Amendment Effective Date
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1.4
 
Representation and Warranties
.
  To induce the Administrative Agent to enter into this Amendment, each Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and all of the Lenders as of the Amendment Effective Date that:
 
(a)
 
.
Corporate Power; Authorization; Enforceable Obligations
 
(i)
 
Each of the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower has the corporate power and authority, and the legal right, to make and deliver this Amendment and to perform the Loan Documents, as amended by this Amendment, to which it is a party and has taken all necessary corporate action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment and the performance of the Loan Documents, as so amended, to which it is a party.
 
(ii)
 
No consent or authorization of, filing with (other than the Borrowers public filing of the Amendment on Form 8-K), or notice to or other act by or in respect of, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is required with respect to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the execution and delivery of this Amendment or with the performance, validity or enforceability of the Loan Documents, as amended by this Amendment, to which the Borrowers are party.
 
(iii)
 
This Amendment has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower.
 
(iv)
 
This Amendment and each Loan Document, as amended by this Amendment, to which each of the Borrowers is a party constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and the Term Loan Borrower enforceable against the Borrowers in accordance with its terms, subject to the effects of bankruptcy, examination, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors rights generally, general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
(b)
 
.  The representations and warranties made by each Borrower in and pursuant to the Loan Documents are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Amendment Effective Date, after giving effect to the effectiveness of this Amendment, as if made on and as of the Amendment Effective Date.
Representations and Warranties
 
SECTION 1.5
 
Payment of Expenses
.  The Borrower agrees to pay or reimburse the Administrative Agent for all of its reasonable and documented out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with this Amendment, any other documents prepared in connection herewith and the transactions contemplated hereby, including, without limitation, the reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent.
 
SECTION 1.6
 
No Other Amendments; Confirmation
.  Except as expressly amended, modified and supplemented hereby, the provisions of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents are and shall remain in full force and effect.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1.7
 
Governing Law; Counterparts
.  (a)  This Amendment and the rights and obligations of the parties hereto shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
(b)
 
This Amendment may be executed by one or more of the parties to this Amendment on any number of separate counterparts, and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument.  This Amendment may be delivered by facsimile transmission of the relevant signature pages thereof.
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and delivered by their respective proper and duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Natick, MA (February 26, 2009) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced updated financial results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2008.  Subsequent to the release of earnings on January 28, the Company accrued for a patent litigation settlement and, as expected, finalized a previously announced goodwill impairment charge.  In accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, these events are required to be recorded in the fourth quarter as they occurred after the January 28 earnings release and before the filing of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The patent litigation settlement resulted in a pre-tax charge of $23 million ($18 million after-tax).  The finalization of the goodwill impairment charge reflected a $54 million credit (on both a pre-tax and after-tax basis) and resulted in a final charge of $2.613 billion compared to the previously reported charge of $2.667 billion.
The table below reconciles the Companys updated fourth quarter financial results to those previously reported.  The adjustments in the table are also reflected in the Companys Form 10-K, which will be filed tomorrow.
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
1
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our financial performance, goodwill impairment charges and litigation matters.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and, future business decisions made by us and our competitors.  All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control.  For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item IA- in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file thereafter.  We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Risk Factors
Risk Factors
Use of non-GAAP Financial Information
 
A reconciliation of the Companys non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures, and an explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures, is included in the exhibits attached to this press release. 
 
 
 
2
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
NON-GAAP NET INCOME AND NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE RECONCILIATIONS
 
 
 
 
 
* Assumes dilution of 2.7 million shares for all or a portion of these amounts.
 
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement Boston Scientifics financial information presented on a GAAP basis; the Company discloses certain non-GAAP measures that exclude certain amounts, including non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income is GAAP net income and the GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income per diluted share is GAAP net income per diluted share. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measure are included in the accompanying schedules.
 
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by Boston Scientific
Management uses these supplemental non-GAAP measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Companys business, to assess its performance relative to its competitors, and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP measures to further its understanding of the performance of the Companys operating segments. The adjustments excluded from the Companys non-GAAP measures are consistent with those excluded from its reportable segments measure of profit or loss. These adjustments are excluded from the segment measures that are reported to the Companys chief operating decision maker and are used to make operating decisions and assess performance.
The following is an explanation of each of the adjustments that management excluded as part of its non-GAAP measures for the three months ended December 31, 2008, as well as reasons for excluding each of these individual items:
 
 
 
5
 
 
Material Limitations Associated with the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share may have limitations as analytical tools, and these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a replacement for GAAP financial measures. Some of the limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures are:
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Boston Scientific compensates for the limitations on its non-GAAP financial measures by relying upon its GAAP results to gain a complete picture of the Companys performance. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
 
 
 
6
The Company provides detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying schedules, and Boston Scientific encourages investors to review these reconciliations.
 
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
The Company believes that presenting non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share, in addition to the related GAAP measures, provides investors greater transparency to the information used by Boston Scientific management for its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see Boston Scientifics results through the eyes of management. The Company further believes that providing this information better enables Boston Scientifics investors to understand the Companys operating performance and to evaluate the methodology used by management to evaluate and measure such performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7


