FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20091106083527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: 
(508) 650-8000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the fling obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
ITEM 2.02.   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
Today we announced that we have reached an agreement in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice related to product advisories issued by our Guidant subsidiary in 2005.  The alleged conduct and product sales occurred prior to our 2006 acquisition of Guidant.
We had previously disclosed an investigation by the U.S. Attorneys Office in Minneapolis into alleged violations of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act by Guidant.  Under the terms of the agreement, Guidant will plead to two misdemeanor charges related to failure to include information in reports to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and we will pay $296 million on behalf of Guidant.
U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles require that this agreement be recorded in the third quarter, as it occurred after the October 19, 2009 release of our third quarter financial results and before the filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  Accordingly, we have updated our financial results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2009, recording a third quarter charge of $294 million, on both a pre-tax and after-tax basis.
This amount represents the $296 million charge associated with the agreement net of a $2 million reversal of a related accrual.
 
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 2 - -
Pursuantto the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - -
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - -
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC ANNOUNCES AGREEMENT
Natick, MA (November 6, 2009)  Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced that it has reached an agreement in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) related to product advisories issued by its Guidant subsidiary in 2005.  The alleged conduct and product sales occurred prior to Boston Scientifics 2006 acquisition of Guidant.
Boston Scientific had previously disclosed an investigation by the U.S. Attorneys Office in Minneapolis into alleged violations of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act by Guidant.  Under the terms of the agreement, Guidant will plead to two misdemeanor charges related to failure to include information in reports to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and Boston Scientific will pay $296 million on behalf of Guidant.
U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) require that this agreement be recorded in the third quarter, as it occurred after the October 19 release of the Companys third quarter financial results and before the filing of the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  Accordingly, the Company has updated its financial results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2009, recording a third quarter charge of $294 million, on both a pre-tax and after-tax basis. This amount represents the $296 million charge associated with the agreement net of a $2 million reversal of a related accrual.
We are pleased this investigation has been resolved, said Ray Elliott, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific. Guidant and its employees acted in good faith and believed they complied with applicable laws and regulations. We elected to resolve this matter so we could put it behind us and devote our full energies and resources to developing our life-saving technologies.
The only products involved in the investigation were the VENTAK PRIZM2, the CONTAK RENEWAL and the CONTAK RENEWAL 2 devices, which were the subjects of the 2005 product advisories.
 
The table below reconciles the Companys updated third quarter and year-to-date 2009 financial results to those previously reported.  The adjustments in the table are also reflected in the Companys Form 10-Q, which will be filed later today.
 
In addition, the Company has updated its full-year 2009 GAAP earnings per share guidance as a result of recording this charge. The Company now expects net income on a GAAP basis of $0.23 to $0.28 per share for the full year ending December 31, 2009. The Company continues to expect adjusted earnings -- excluding intangible asset impairment charges; acquisition-, divestiture-, and litigation-related net charges; restructuring and restructuring-related costs; discrete tax items; and amortization expense -- of between $0.75 and $0.79 per share.  The table below reconciles the Companys updated full-year guidance to that previously reported.
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
- 2 - -
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding financial performance, resolution of government proceedings, regulatory compliance and product performance.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and, future business decisions made by us and our competitors.  All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control.  For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item 1A  in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file hereafter.  We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Risk Factors
Risk Factors
Use of non-GAAP Financial Information
 
A reconciliation of the Companys non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures, and an explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures, is included in the exhibits attached to this press release. 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - -
 
 
* Assumes dilution of 10.9 million shares for all or a portion of these amounts.
 
 
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
- 4 - -
 
 
Amounts are tax effected at the Companys effective tax rate, unless the amount is a significant unusual or infrequently occurring item in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification section 740-270-30, General Methodology and Use of Estimated Annual Effective Tax Rate.
(a)
Recorded to other, net.
(b)
In the third quarter of 2009, recorded $13 million to cost of products sold; $5 million to selling, general and administrative expenses; and $1 million to research and development expenses. In the third quarter of 2008, recorded $4 million to cost of products sold; $9 million to selling, general and administrative expenses; and $1 million to research and development expenses. In the first nine months of 2009, recorded $36 million to cost of products sold; $11 million to selling, general and administrative expenses; and $3 million to research and development expenses. In the first nine months of 2008, recorded $11 million to cost of products sold; $24 million to selling, general and administrative expenses; and $5 million to research and development expenses.
(c)
 
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document
 
- 5 - -
 
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 6 - -
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement Boston Scientifics condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis; the Company discloses certain non-GAAP measures that exclude certain amounts, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income is GAAP net income and the GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income per share is GAAP net income per share. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measure are included in the accompanying schedules.
To calculate regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange, the Company converts actual current-period net sales from local currency to U.S. dollars using constant foreign exchange rates. The GAAP measure most comparable to this non-GAAP measure is growth rate percentages based on GAAP revenue. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the corresponding GAAP measure is included in the accompanying schedules.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by Boston Scientific
Management uses these supplemental non-GAAP measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Companys business, to assess its performance relative to its competitors, and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP measures to further its understanding of the performance of the Companys operating segments. The adjustments excluded from the Companys non-GAAP measures are consistent with those excluded from its reportable segments measure of profit or loss. These adjustments are excluded from the segment measures that are reported to the Companys chief operating decision maker and are used to make operating decisions and assess performance.
The following is an explanation of each of the adjustments that management excluded as part of its non-GAAP measures for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 and for the forecasted three month period and full year ending December 31, 2009, as well as reasons for excluding each of these individual items:
- 7 - -
Material Limitations Associated with the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange may have limitations as analytical tools, and these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a replacement for GAAP financial measures. Some of the limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures are:
- 8 - -
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Boston Scientific compensates for the limitations on its non-GAAP financial measures by relying upon its GAAP results to gain a complete picture of the Companys performance. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
The Company provides detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying schedules, and Boston Scientific encourages investors to review these reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
The Company believes that presenting non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors greater transparency to the information used by Boston Scientific management for its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see Boston Scientifics results through the eyes of management. The Company further believes that providing this information better enables Boston Scientifics investors to understand the Companys operating performance and to evaluate the methodology used by management to evaluate and measure such performance.
 
- 9 - -


