FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20090420180709.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:  
(508) 650-8000
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the fling obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
ITEM 2.02.    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On April 20, 2009, Boston Scientific Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009.  A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
ITEM 9.01.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuantto the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Natick, MA (April 20, 2009) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009, as well as guidance for net sales and earnings per share (EPS) for the second quarter and full year of 2009. 
First Quarter Highlights (Sales growth rates are constant currency):
Were off to a good start on the year with four percent sales growth, excluding divestitures, on a constant currency basis and adjusted EPS at the high end of our guidance range, said Jim Tobin, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific.  Our CRM and DES results were particularly impressive, with double-digit U.S. growth in both businesses.  We also saw continued solid performances by our Endoscopy, Urology/Gynecology and Neuromodulation businesses.  We further reduced risk by settling additional litigation, pre-paying debt, amending our credit facility, and maintaining financial discipline and strong cash flow.
1
Net sales for the first quarter of 2009 were $2.010 billion, which included sales from divested businesses of $4 million, as compared to net sales of $2.046 billion for the first quarter of 2008, which included sales from divested businesses of $32 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and sales from divested businesses, net sales increased four percent over the prior year.
Worldwide sales of the Companys CRM products for the first quarter were as follows:
 
Worldwide sales of the Companys coronary stent systems for the first quarter were as follows:
 
Reported net loss for the first quarter of 2009 was $13 million, or $0.01 per share. Reported results included acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation-, and restructuring-related net charges; discrete tax items and amortization expense (after-tax) of $302 million, or $0.20 per share, which consisted primarily of:
2
Adjusted net income for the first quarter of 2009, excluding these charges, was $289 million, or $0.19 per share.  Included in the reported and adjusted net income was $11 million, or $0.01 per share, of favorable discrete income tax items.
Reported net income for the first quarter of 2008 was $322 million, or $0.21 per share.  Reported results included acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation-, and restructuring-related charges; and amortization expense (after-tax) of $35 million, or $0.03 per share.  Adjusted net income for the first quarter of 2008, excluding these charges, was $357 million, or $0.24 per share.  Included in the reported and adjusted net income was $43 million, or $0.03 per share, of favorable discrete income tax items and $8 million, or $0.01 per share, associated with divested businesses.
Guidance for Second Quarter and Full Year 2009
The Company estimates net sales for the second quarter of 2009 of between $1.960 billion and $2.080 billion, which includes an estimated $100 million negative impact from foreign currency exchange as compared to the second quarter of 2008. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and sales from divested businesses, the Company estimates net sales growth rates of three percent to nine percent during the second quarter of 2009. Adjusted earnings, excluding acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation- and restructuring-related charges; and amortization expense, are estimated to range between $0.16 and $0.21 per share. The Company estimates net income on a GAAP basis of between $0.07 and $0.13 per share.
The Company reaffirms its net sales estimate for the full year of 2009 of between $8.0 billion and $8.5 billion. The Company also continues to expect adjusted earnings, excluding acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation- and restructuring-related charges; discrete tax items, and amortization expense, for the full year of between $0.80 and $0.90 per share. The Company now expects net income on a GAAP basis of between $0.46 and $0.57 per share, as a result of first quarter litigation-related charges and discrete tax items.
This guidance reflects our optimism about the growth potential of all our businesses, which are benefiting from our renewed focus on product development and increasing profitability, said Tobin.  Our momentum is building, and we are particularly enthusiastic about our prospects for the second half of the year, which we believe will contribute to a very strong 2009.
Boston Scientific officials will be discussing these results with analysts on a conference call at 8:00 a.m. (ET) Tuesday, April 21, 2009. The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website: www.bostonscientific.com. Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
 
 
3
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our financial performance, our growth strategy, new product approvals, our market position, acquisitions and divestitures, restructuring activities and litigation matters.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and future business decisions made by us and our competitors.  All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control.  For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item IA- in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file thereafter.  We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Risk Factors
Risk Factors
Use of non-GAAP Financial Information
 
A reconciliation of the Company's non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures, and an explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures, is included in the exhibits attached to this press release. 
     
CONTACT: 
Paul Donovan
508-650-8541 (office) 
508-667-5165 (mobile)
Media Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation
Larry Neumann
508-650-8696 (office)
Investor Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation
 
 
 
 
4
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
NON-GAAP NET INCOME AND NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE RECONCILIATIONS
 
 
Assumes dilution of 3.9 million shares for all or a portion of these non-GAAP adjustments.
*
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
7
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
8
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
9
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
11
 
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
12
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement Boston Scientifics condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis; the Company discloses certain non-GAAP measures that exclude certain amounts, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income is GAAP net income and the GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income per share is GAAP net income per share. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measure are included in the accompanying schedules.
To calculate regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange, the Company converts actual current-period net sales from local currency to U.S. dollars using constant foreign exchange rates. The GAAP measure most comparable to this non-GAAP measure is growth rate percentages based on GAAP revenue. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the corresponding GAAP measure is included in the accompanying schedules.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by Boston Scientific
Management uses these supplemental non-GAAP measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Companys business, to assess its performance relative to its competitors, and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP measures to further its understanding of the performance of the Companys operating segments. The adjustments excluded from the Companys non-GAAP measures are consistent with those excluded from its reportable segments measure of profit or loss. These adjustments are excluded from the segment measures that are reported to the Companys chief operating decision maker and are used to make operating decisions and assess performance.
The following is an explanation of each of the adjustments that management excluded as part of its non-GAAP measures for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 and for the forecasted three month period ending June 30, 2009, as well as reasons for excluding each of these individual items:
13
Material Limitations Associated with the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange may have limitations as analytical tools, and these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a replacement for GAAP financial measures. Some of the limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures are:
14
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Boston Scientific compensates for the limitations on its non-GAAP financial measures by relying upon its GAAP results to gain a complete picture of the Companys performance. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
The Company provides detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying schedules, and Boston Scientific encourages investors to review these reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
The Company believes that presenting non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors greater transparency to the information used by Boston Scientific management for its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see Boston Scientifics results through the eyes of management. The Company further believes that providing this information better enables Boston Scientifics investors to understand the Companys operating performance and to evaluate the methodology used by management to evaluate and measure such performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15


