FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20091019175454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: 
(508) 650-8000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the fling obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[   ]  Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[   ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[   ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[   ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On October 19, 2009, Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009.  A copy of the release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuantto the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
Natick, MA (October 19, 2009) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009, as well as guidance for net sales and earnings per share (EPS) for the fourth quarter and full year 2009. 
Third quarter highlights (Sales growth rates are constant currency):
So far this year, CRM market growth has not been as strong as expected, but our CRM business has continued to grow, and we have not seen the slowdown in hospital stocking described by St. Jude, said Ray Elliott, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific.  In DES, we maintained our worldwide leadership position.  A key component of that leadership has been our TAXUS franchise, which has been studied in more than 46,000 patients over the past nine years.  The COMPARE data presented last month are inconsistent with the overall body of TAXUS evidence, and we expect that the results of future studies will be more in line with those of other TAXUS trials.  Single-center, non-double blinded, underpowered studies, such as COMPARE, are not considered optimal trial protocol.  Moreover, we have the
 
1
industrys only two-drug platform and the finest sales and marketing team in the business, two important competitive advantages that should help ensure continued DES leadership.
Net sales for the third quarter of 2009 were $2.025 billion, as compared to net sales of $1.978 billion for the third quarter of 2008, which included sales from divested businesses of $12 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and sales from divested businesses, net sales increased three percent over the prior period.
Worldwide CRM sales for the third quarter  on a reported basis  were as follows:
Worldwide coronary stent system sales for the third quarter  on a reported basis  were as follows:
Reported net income for the third quarter of 2009 was $200 million, or $0.13 per share. Reported results included litigation-related credits, restructuring and restructuring-related costs and amortization expense (after-tax) of $91 million, or $0.06 per share, which consisted of:
Adjusted net income for the third quarter of 2009, excluding these net charges, was $291 million, or $0.19 per share.
Reported net loss for the third quarter of 2008 was $62 million, or $0.04 per share.  Reported results included intangible asset impairment charges; acquisition-, divestiture-, and litigation-
 
2
related net charges; restructuring and restructuring-related costs and amortization expense (after-tax) of $298 million, or $0.20 per share.  Adjusted net income for the third quarter of 2008, excluding these charges, was $236 million, or $0.16 per share.
The quarter was marked by significant clinical accomplishments, said Elliott.  We announced final results from the MADIT-CRT trial, which clearly demonstrated that CRT-D therapy slows the progression of heart failure, and we completed enrollment in the PLATINUM workhorse trial evaluating our next-generation PROMUS Element Everolimus-Eluting Coronary Stent System.  We also obtained key product approvals, including CE Mark for the LATITUDE Patient Management System and FDA approval of the TAXUS Liberte Long Paclitaxel-Eluting Coronary Stent System.  These developments are further evidence of the strength and promise of our CRM and Cardiovascular businesses.
Guidance for Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2009
The Company estimates net sales for the fourth quarter of 2009 of between $2.025 billion and $2.125 billion. Adjusted earnings  excluding acquisition-related credits, restructuring and restructuring-related costs, and amortization expense  are estimated to range between $0.17 and $0.21 per share. The Company estimates net income on a GAAP basis of between $0.20 and $0.25 per share.
The Company has updated its net sales estimate for the full year of 2009 to between $8.134 billion and $8.234 billion. The Company now expects adjusted earnings for the full year  excluding intangible asset impairment charges; acquisition-, divestiture-, and litigation-related net charges; restructuring and restructuring-related costs; discrete tax items; and amortization expense  of between $0.75 and $0.79 per share. The Company expects net income on a GAAP basis of between $0.43 and $0.48 per share.
Boston Scientific officials will be discussing these results with analysts on a conference call at 8:00 a.m. (ET) Tuesday, October 20. The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website: www.bostonscientific.com. Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or
 
3
performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our financial performance, our growth strategy, new product approvals, clinical trials, our market position, acquisitions and divestitures, restructuring activities and litigation matters.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and future business decisions made by us and our competitors.  All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control.  For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item IA- in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file hereafter.  We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Risk Factors
Risk Factors
Use of non-GAAP Financial Information
 
A reconciliation of the Companys non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures, and an explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures, is included in the exhibits attached to this press release. 
 
 
4
 
 
 
5
 
6
 
* Assumes dilution of 7.0 million shares
 
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
7
 
Amounts are tax effected at the Companys effective tax rate, unless the amount is a significant unusual or infrequently occurring item, in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification section 740-270-30, General Methodology and Use of Estimated Annual Effective Tax Rate.
(a)
Recorded to other, net.
(b)
In the third quarter of 2009, recorded $13 million to cost of products sold; $5 million to selling, general and administrative expenses; and $1 million to research and development expenses. In the third quarter of 2008, recorded $4 million to cost of products sold; $9 million to selling, general and administrative expenses; and $1 million to research and development expenses. In the first nine months of 2009, recorded $36 million to cost of products sold; $11 million to selling, general and administrative expenses; and $3 million to research and development expenses. In the first nine months of 2008, recorded $11 million to cost of products sold; $24 million to selling, general and administrative expenses; and $5 million to research and development expenses.
(c)
 
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
8
Growth rates are based on actual, non-rounded amounts and may not recalculate precisely.
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
9
 
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
10
 
Growth rates are based on actual, non-rounded amounts and may not recalculate precisely.
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
11
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
12
 
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
13
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement Boston Scientifics condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis; the Company discloses certain non-GAAP measures that exclude certain amounts, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income is GAAP net income and the GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income per share is GAAP net income per share. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measure are included in the accompanying schedules.
To calculate regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange, the Company converts actual current-period net sales from local currency to U.S. dollars using constant foreign exchange rates. The GAAP measure most comparable to this non-GAAP measure is growth rate percentages based on GAAP revenue. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the corresponding GAAP measure is included in the accompanying schedules.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by Boston Scientific
Management uses these supplemental non-GAAP measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Companys business, to assess its performance relative to its competitors, and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP measures to further its understanding of the performance of the Companys operating segments. The adjustments excluded from the Companys non-GAAP measures are consistent with those excluded from its reportable segments measure of profit or loss. These adjustments are excluded from the segment measures that are reported to the Companys chief operating decision maker and are used to make operating decisions and assess performance.
The following is an explanation of each of the adjustments that management excluded as part of its non-GAAP measures for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 and for the forecasted three month period and full year ending December 31, 2009, as well as reasons for excluding each of these individual items:
14
 
15
 
Material Limitations Associated with the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange may have limitations as analytical tools, and these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a replacement for GAAP financial measures. Some of the limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures are:
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Boston Scientific compensates for the limitations on its non-GAAP financial measures by relying upon its GAAP results to gain a complete picture of the Companys performance. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
16
The Company provides detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying schedules, and Boston Scientific encourages investors to review these reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
The Company believes that presenting non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors greater transparency to the information used by Boston Scientific management for its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see Boston Scientifics results through the eyes of management. The Company further believes that providing this information better enables Boston Scientifics investors to understand the Companys operating performance and to evaluate the methodology used by management to evaluate and measure such performance.
 
 
 
 
17


