FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20090129073424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the fling obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[   ]  Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[   ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[   ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[   ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On January 28, 2009, we issued a press release announcing financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2008, as well as guidance for net sales and earnings per share for the first quarter of 2009.  A copy of the release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
ITEM 2.05.  COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES.
On January 27, 2009, we committed to a Plant Network Optimization plan (the Plan) which is intended to simplify our manufacturing plant structure by transferring certain production lines from one facility to another and closing certain facilities. The Plan is a complement to our previously announced expense and head count reduction plan, and is intended to improve gross profit margins.  Activities under the Plan will be initiated in 2009 and are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2011.  We estimate that the Plan will result in annual pre-tax reductions of manufacturing costs of approximately $65 million to $80 million in 2012.  These savings are in addition to an estimated $35 million to $40 million of annual pre-tax reductions of manufacturing costs in 2012 from activities under our previously announced expense and headcount reduction plan.
We estimate that the Plan will result in total pre-tax charges of approximately $135 million to $150 million, and that approximately $120 million to $130 million of these charges will result in future cash outlays.  The following table provides a summary of our estimates of costs associated with the Plan by major type of cost:
 
 
 
We estimate that during 2009, we will record $20 million to $30 million of restructuring charges associated with the Plan, as well as $15 million to $25 million of restructuring-related expenses, which will be recorded through cost of goods sold. We will record the remaining expenses throughout 2010 and 2011. The restructuring charges relate primarily to termination benefits recorded pursuant to FASB Statement No. 112, and FASB Statement No. 146,  
Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits
Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
 
 
This Item 2.05 contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our Plant Network Optimization Plan, our expense and headcount reduction plan, our potential asset divestitures, and our operational and growth strategies.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this Form 8-K.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
 
ITEM 2.06.  MATERIAL IMPAIRMENTS.
On January 27, 2009, we concluded that we are required to record a material goodwill impairment charge during the fourth quarter of 2008 related to our 2006 acquisition of Guidant.  The recent decline in our stock price and our market capitalization created an indication of potential impairment of our goodwill balance. Consequently, we performed an interim impairment test of our goodwill associated with the acquisition.  We considered the changes in CRM market demand since our acquisition of Guidant relative to our original assumptions, as well as the effect of recent disruptions in equity and credit markets upon weighted average cost of capital. As a result, we have recorded an estimated $2.7 billion write-down of goodwill.   This non-cash impairment charge will not affect the debt covenants under our existing term loan and revolving credit facility agreements.  We intend to finalize the amount of the goodwill impairment charge during the first quarter of 2009.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
.           
Exhibit  No
Description
Pursuantto the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.           
Exhibit  No
Description
 
 

Natick, MA (January 28, 2009) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2008, as well as guidance for net sales and earnings per share (EPS) for the first quarter of 2009. 
Fourth quarter highlights:
 
During the quarter, we continued to gain share in our cardiac rhythm management and drug-eluting stent businesses, driven by the approval and successful launch of important new products, said Jim Tobin, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston
 
Scientific.  Throughout the year, we made progress in critical areas across the Company and positioned ourselves well for the future.  Weve transformed quality, revitalized our pipeline, streamlined the organization, strengthened our financial fundamentals and diversified our product portfolio.  We will build on this solid foundation in 2009 and beyond.
Fourth Quarter 2008
Net sales for the fourth quarter of 2008 were $2.002 billion, which included sales from divested businesses of $7 million, as compared to net sales of $2.152 billion for the fourth quarter of 2007, which included sales from divested businesses of $145 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and sales from divested businesses, net sales increased two percent over the prior period.
Worldwide sales of the Companys CRM products for the fourth quarter were as follows:
 
 
 
Worldwide sales of the Companys coronary stent systems for the fourth quarter were as follows:
 
Despite the Companys strong financial performance, changes in CRM market demand since our acquisition of Guidant  coupled with the recent disruptions in the credit and equity markets  have caused us to write down $2.7 billion of goodwill associated with the acquisition.  This is a non-cash charge that has no impact on our debt covenants.  The amount of the charge is subject to finalization during the first quarter of 2009.
This write-down in no way diminishes our confidence in our CRM business, said Tobin. CRM is growing, it is taking market share, and it will be a key driver of the Companys sales and earnings growth going forward.
Reported net loss for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $2.430 billion, or $1.62 per share. Reported results included intangible asset impairments, acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation- and restructuring-related net charges, and amortization expense (after-tax) of $2.750 billion, or $1.83 per share, which consisted of:
Adjusted net income for the fourth quarter of 2008 excluding these charges was $320 million, or $0.21 per share.
Reported net loss for the fourth quarter of 2007 was $458 million, or $0.31 per share.  Reported results included intangible asset impairments, acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation- and restructuring-related charges and amortization expense (after-tax) of $813 million, or $0.55 per share.  Adjusted net income for the fourth quarter of 2007 excluding these charges was $355 million, or $0.24 per share.
Full Year 2008
Net sales for the full year 2008 were $8.050 billion, which included sales from divested businesses of $69 million, as compared to net sales of $8.357 billion in 2007, which included sales from divested businesses of $553 million.
Worldwide sales of the Companys CRM products for the full year were as follows:
 
 
 
Worldwide sales of the Companys coronary stent systems for the full year were as follows:
 
Reported net loss for 2008 was $2.072 billion, or $1.38 per share. Reported results for 2008 included intangible asset impairments, acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation- and restructuring-related charges, and amortization expense (after-tax) of $3.289 billion, or $2.19 per share, which consisted of:
Adjusted net income for 2008, excluding these charges, was $1.217 billion, or $0.81 per share.
Reported net loss for 2007 was $495 million, or $0.33 per share. Reported results for 2007 included intangible asset impairments, acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation- and restructuring-related charges, and amortization expense (after-tax) of $1.652 billion, or $1.10 per share. Adjusted net income for 2007, excluding these charges was $1.157 billion, or $0.77 per share.
 
 
 
Guidance for First Quarter 2009
The Company estimates net sales for the first quarter of 2009 of between $1.950 billion and $2.070 billion. Adjusted earnings, excluding acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation- and restructuring-related charges and amortization expense, are estimated to range between $0.15 and $0.20 per share. The Company estimates net income on a GAAP basis of between $0.05 and $0.11 per share.
Full year 2009 sales and earnings per share guidance will be provided during the Companys conference call with analysts tomorrow.
Boston Scientific officials will be discussing these results with analysts on a conference call at 8:00 a.m. (ET) Thursday, January 29, 2009. The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website: www.bostonscientific.com. Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our financial performance, our programs to increase shareholder value, new product approvals, acquisitions and divestitures, our growth strategy, competitive offerings and our market position.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and, future business decisions made by us and our competitors.  All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control.  For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item IA- in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file thereafter.  We disclaim any intention or
Risk Factors
Risk Factors
 
 
 
 
 
 
obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Use of non-GAAP Financial Information
 
A reconciliation of the Companys non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures, and an explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures, is included in the exhibits attached to this press release. 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
3
NON-GAAP NET INCOME AND NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE RECONCILIATIONS
 
 
 
 
* Assumes dilution of 2.7 million shares for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and 9.0 million shares for the quarter ended December 31, 2007 for all or a portion of these non-GAAP adjustments.
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
  Amounts are tax effected at the Company's effective tax rate, unless the amount is a significant unusual or infrequently occurring item in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 18, "Accounting for Income Taxes in Interim Periods."
(a)
  Recorded credits of $4 million to selling, general and administrative expenses and $1 million to research and development expenses.
(b)
   In 2008, recorded $6 million to cost of products sold; $7 million to selling, general and administrative expenses; $2 million to research and development expenses; and $19 million to restructuring charges. In 2007, recorded $4 million to cost of products sold; $2 million to selling, general and administrative expenses; $2 million to research and development expenses; and $176 million to restructuring charges.
(c)
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
5
NON-GAAP NET INCOME AND NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE RECONCILIATIONS
 
* Assumes dilution of 5.8 million shares for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 13.1 million shares for the year ended December 31, 2007 for all or a portion of these non-GAAP adjustments.
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
6
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
 
 
  Amounts are tax effected at the Company's effective tax rate, unless the amount is a significant unusual or infrequently occurring item in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 18, "Accounting for Income Taxes in Interim Periods."
(a)
  Recorded $6 million to cost of products sold, $20 million to selling, general and administrative expenses and $3 million to research and development expenses.
(b)
  Recorded to other, net.
(c)
  In 2008, recorded $17 million to cost of products sold; $31 million to selling, general and administrative expenses; $7 million to research and development expenses; and $78 million to restructuring charges. In 2007, recorded $4 million to cost of products sold; 2 million to selling, general and administrative expenses; $2 million to research and development expenses; and $176 million to restructuring charges.
(d)
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
8
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
10
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
11
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement Boston Scientifics condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis; the Company discloses certain non-GAAP measures that exclude certain amounts, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income is GAAP net income and the GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income per diluted share is GAAP net income per diluted share. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measure are included in the accompanying schedules.
To calculate regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange, the Company converts actual current-period net sales from local currency to U.S. dollars using constant foreign exchange rates. The GAAP measure most comparable to this non-GAAP measure is growth rate percentages based on GAAP revenue. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the corresponding GAAP measure is included in the accompanying schedules.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by Boston Scientific
Management uses these supplemental non-GAAP measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Companys business, to assess its performance relative to its competitors, and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP measures to further its understanding of the performance of the Companys operating segments. The adjustments excluded from the Companys non-GAAP measures are consistent with those excluded from its reportable segments measure of profit or loss. These adjustments are excluded from the segment measures that are reported to the Companys chief operating decision maker and are used to make operating decisions and assess performance.
The following is an explanation of each of the adjustments that management excluded as part of its non-GAAP measures for the three months and year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 and for the forecasted three month period ending March 31, 2009, as well as reasons for excluding each of these individual items:
 
 
13
 
 
 
14
 
Material Limitations Associated with the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange may have limitations as analytical tools, and these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a replacement for GAAP financial measures. Some of the limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures are:
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Boston Scientific compensates for the limitations on its non-GAAP financial measures by relying upon its GAAP results to gain a complete picture of the Companys performance. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
The Company provides detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying schedules, and Boston Scientific encourages investors to review these reconciliations.
 
 
 
 
15
 
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
The Company believes that presenting non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors greater transparency to the information used by Boston Scientific management for its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see Boston Scientifics results through the eyes of management. The Company further believes that providing this information better enables Boston Scientifics investors to understand the Companys operating performance and to evaluate the methodology used by management to evaluate and measure such performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 


