FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20101019160908.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On October 19, 2010, Boston Scientific Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2010. A copy of the release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 -
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Natick, MA (October 19, 2010) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2010, as well as guidance for net sales and earnings per share (EPS) for the fourth quarter and full year 2010. 
Third quarter highlights (sales growth rates are at constant currency):
 
During the quarter we made good progress toward the execution of both our strategic plan and the necessary financial discipline, which resulted in a strong operating performance despite the challenges facing our industry, said Ray Elliott, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific.  These results reflect our recovery from the CRM ship hold and our successful focus on regaining
 
 
1
 
share.  We also made progress on our restructuring initiatives and the realignment and diversification of our product portfolio, two essential components of our plan for future growth.
Net sales for the third quarter of 2010 were $1.916 billion, as compared to net sales of $2.025 billion for the third quarter of 2009, a decrease of five percent on both a reported and constant currency basis.
Worldwide cardiac rhythm management (CRM) net sales for the third quarter  on a reported basis  were as follows:
Worldwide coronary stent system net sales for the third quarter  on a reported basis  were as follows:
On a GAAP basis, net income for the third quarter of 2010 was $190 million, or $0.12 per diluted share.  These results included intangible asset impairment charges, restructuring-related charges, discrete tax items and amortization expense (after-tax) of $106 million, or $0.07 per share, which consisted of:
Adjusted net income for the third quarter of 2010, excluding these charges, was $296 million, or $0.19 per share.
On a GAAP basis, net loss for the third quarter of 2009 was $94 million, or $0.06 per share.  These results included litigation- and restructuring-related net charges and amortization expense (after-tax) of $385 million, or $0.25 per share. Adjusted net income for the third quarter of 2009, excluding these net charges, was $291 million, or $0.19 per share.
Once again our businesses generated excellent cash flow, said Elliott.  Going forward we expect our cash flow to provide the capital needed to fund investments in high-growth opportunities that will complement our existing product offerings, as well as consistently reduce our debt obligations.
 
2
 
Fourth Quarter and Updated Full Year 2010 Guidance
The Company estimates net sales for the fourth quarter of 2010 of between $1.925 billion and $2.000 billion, as compared to net sales of $2.079 billion for the fourth quarter of 2009. Adjusted earnings, excluding restructuring and restructuring-related costs and amortization expense, are estimated to range between $0.15 and $0.18 per share, as compared to adjusted earnings of $0.20 per share in the fourth quarter of 2009. The Company estimates earnings on a GAAP basis of between $0.05 and $0.09 per share, as compared to a net loss of $0.71 per share in the fourth quarter of 2009.
The Company now estimates net sales for the full year 2010 of between $7.729 billion and $7.804 billion, as compared to net sales of $8.188 billion for the full year 2009. Adjusted earnings, excluding goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, acquisition-related credits, restructuring and restructuring-related costs, discrete tax items and amortization expense are estimated to range between $0.63 and $0.66 per share, as compared to adjusted earnings of $0.78 per share for the full year 2009.  The Company estimates a net loss on a GAAP basis of between $0.81 and $0.77 per share, as compared to a net loss of $0.68 per share for the full year 2009.
Boston Scientific officials will be discussing these results with analysts on a conference call at 5:30 p.m. (ET) Tuesday, October 19. The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website: www.bostonscientific.com. Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our expected net sales, GAAP earnings and adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter and full year 2010; our financial performance; new product approvals and sales; regulatory compliance and product removal actions; our market position; cash flow; write-down of goodwill and other asset impairments; our capacity to fund acquisitions and other investments; our ability to reduce our debt obligations; and our restructuring activities.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These risks and uncertainties, in some cases, have affected and in the future could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Risks and uncertainties that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions and the market acceptance of those products; clinical trial results; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; the effect of our goodwill impairment charges and our restructuring initiatives; closing of announced acquisitions and integration of acquired companies; and future business decisions made by us and our competitors. New risks and uncertainties may arise from time to time and are difficult to predict. All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control.  For a further list and description of these and other important risks and unc ertainties that may affect our future operations, see
 
 
3
 
Part I, Item IA  in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file hereafter.  We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this pres s release.
Risk Factors
Risk Factors
Use of non-GAAP Financial Information
 
A reconciliation of the Companys non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures, and an explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures, is included in the exhibits attached to this press release. 
 
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
 
Assumes dilution of 10.9 million shares for the three months ended September 30, 2009 and 9.2 million shares for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 for all or a portion of these non-GAAP adjustments.
*
 
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
7
 
 
 
Amounts are tax effected at the Companys effective tax rate, unless the amount is a significant unusual or infrequently occurring item in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification section 740-270-30, General Methodology and Use of Estimated Annual Effective Tax Rate.
(a)
Recorded to other, net.
(b)
In the third quarter of 2010, recorded $12 million to cost of products sold and $1 million to selling, general and administrative expenses. In the third quarter of 2009, recorded $13 million to cost of products sold; $5 million to selling, general and administrative expenses; and $1 million to research and development expenses. In the first nine months of 2010, recorded $38 million to cost of products sold and $3 million to selling, general and administrative expenses. In the first nine months of 2009, recorded $36 million to cost of products sold; $11 million to selling, general and administrative expenses; and $3 million to research and development expenses.
(c)
 
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
8
 
 
Growth rates are based on actual, non-rounded amounts and may not recalculate precisely.
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
9
 
Growth rates are based on actual, non-rounded amounts and may not recalculate precisely.
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
10
 
 
 
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
11
 
 
 
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
12
 
 
An explanation of the Companys use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
13
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement Boston Scientifics condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis; the Company discloses certain non-GAAP measures that exclude certain amounts, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income is GAAP net income and the GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income per share is GAAP net income per share. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measure are included in the accompanying schedules.
To calculate regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange, the Company converts actual current-period net sales from local currency to U.S. dollars using constant foreign exchange rates. The GAAP measure most comparable to this non-GAAP measure is growth rate percentages based on GAAP revenue. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the corresponding GAAP measure is included in the accompanying schedules.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by Boston Scientific
Management uses these supplemental non-GAAP measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Companys business, to assess its performance relative to its competitors, and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP measures to further its understanding of the performance of the Companys operating segments. The adjustments excluded from the Companys non-GAAP measures are consistent with those excluded from its reportable segments measure of profit or loss. These adjustments are excluded from the segment measures that are reported to the Companys chief operating decision maker and are used to make operating decisions and assess performance.
The following is an explanation of each of the adjustments that management excluded as part of its non-GAAP measures for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009 and for the forecasted three month period ending December 31, 2010 and full year ending December 31, 2010, as well as reasons for excluding each of these individual items:
 
14
 
Material Limitations Associated with the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange may have limitations as analytical tools, and these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a replacement for GAAP financial measures. Some of the limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures are:
 
15
 
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Boston Scientific compensates for the limitations on its non-GAAP financial measures by relying upon its GAAP results to gain a complete picture of the Companys performance. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
The Company provides detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying schedules, and Boston Scientific encourages investors to review these reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
The Company believes that presenting non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors greater transparency to the information used by Boston Scientific management for its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see Boston Scientifics results through the eyes of management. The Company further believes that providing this information better enables Boston Scientifics investors to understand the Companys operating performance and to evaluate the methodology used by management to evaluate and measure such performance.
 
 
16
 


