FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20100415160635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Today we announced that we have received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) clearance for the two validated manufacturing changes affecting all of our cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT-Ds) and implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs), and that we will immediately resume distribution of our COGNISCRT-Ds and TELIGENICDs.  We are positioned to fully meet customer demand for COGNIS and TELIGEN within 24 hours.  COGNIS and TELIGEN represent virtually all of our defibrillator implant volume in the United States.
 
 
On March 15th and 16th we submitted the two manufacturing changes to the FDA for the following CRT-D and ICD product families: COGNIS, TELIGEN, CONFIENT, LIVIAN, PRIZM, RENEWAL and VITALITY.  Solely on our own initiative we conducted an internal review of manufacturing and other changes for these products, as well as the associated regulatory submissions.  The review found a few additional instances where we did not submit the appropriate documentation for validated manufacturing changes. We have now submitted this documentation and are working closely with the FDA to secure clearances to return CONFIENT, LIVIAN, PRIZM, RENEWAL and VITALITY, the earlier generations of our CRT-D and ICD products, to market as soon as possible in the United States.  These p roducts may continue to be implanted in geographies outside the United States.
 
Our pacemakers and other products were not affected by the ship hold and product removal actions.  Geographies outside the United States were never affected, and remain unaffected, by these actions.
 
A copy of the press release and related communications are furnished as exhibits hereto.
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 -
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
COGNIS CRT-DS AND TELIGEN ICDS IN THE U.S.
 
Natick, MA (April 15, 2010) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced that it has received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) clearance for the two validated manufacturing changes affecting all of its cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT-Ds) and implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs), and that it will immediately resume distribution of its COGNIS CRT-Ds and TELIGEN ICDs.  The Company is positioned to fully meet customer demand for COGNIS and TELIGEN within 24 hours.  COGNIS and TELIGEN represent virtually all of the Companys defibrillator implant volum e in the United States.
 
On March 15 and 16 the Company submitted the two manufacturing changes to the FDA for the following CRT-D and ICD product families: COGNIS, TELIGEN, CONFIENT, LIVIAN, PRIZM, RENEWAL and VITALITY.  Solely on its own initiative, the Company has conducted an internal review of manufacturing and other changes for these products, as well as the associated regulatory submissions.  The review found a few additional instances where the Company did not submit the appropriate documentation for validated manufacturing changes for CONFIENT, LIVIAN, PRIZ M, RENEWAL and VITALITY.   The Company has now submitted this documentation and is working closely with the FDA to secure clearances to return CONFIENT, LIVIAN, PRIZM, RENEWAL and VITALITY -- the earlier generations of the Companys CRT-D and ICD products -- to market as soon as possible in the United States.  These products may continue to be implanted in geographies outside the United States.
th
th
 
The Companys pacemakers and other products were not affected by the ship hold and product removal actions.  Geographies outside the United States were never affected  and remain unaffected  by these actions.
 
 We are pleased that the FDA has cleared the manufacturing changes, and that we are again able to offer COGNIS and TELIGEN to U.S. patients and physicians, said Ray Elliott, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific.  We are committed to doing the right thing every time, and we acted voluntarily, swiftly and appropriately to ensure compliance with all regulatory requirements.  Our entire sales force is energized and hard at work!
 
-- more --
 
 
 
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 2
April 15, 2010
 
 
The Company is evaluating the impact of the ship hold and product removal actions on its financial results and will provide an update with the release of its first quarter earnings.  These recent actions may have a material impact on the Company's previously issued guidance, including revenue, operating profit and cash flows for the first quarter and full year of 2010.
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties.  For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our regul atory approvals, internal systems and processes, product performance and availability, and financial results.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and, future business decisions made by us and our competitors.  All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control.  For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item 1A  in our most recent A nnual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file hereafter.  We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Risk Factors
Risk Factors
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
April 2010
 
Subject:
 
United States distribution and implantation of COGNIS CRT-Ds and TELIGEN ICDs has resumed
Dear Doctor:
Boston Scientific has obtained U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) clearance for the two validated manufacturing changes affecting its COGNIS cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT-Ds) and TELIGEN implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) and will immediately resume U.S. distribution of these devices.  Implants of these products may begin immediately. Your local representative will work with your hospital to replenish inventory.
As you know, on March 15, 2010, Boston Scientific voluntarily stopped United States distribution of all CRT-Ds and ICDs and removed these products from U.S. hospital shelves. We took this action after discovering that we had implemented two validated manufacturing changes in our CRT-D and ICD devices without filing the appropriate documentation with the FDA in advance.    As we communicated to physicians in a letter dated March 22, 2010, there is n o indication that there are any patient safety risks associated with these changes, and we are not recommending any modifications to normal follow-up procedure for patients previously implanted with Boston Scientific CRT-D or ICD devices.
No device failures have been associated with these manufacturing changes, nor do we expect any failures in the future related to these changes.
We take our responsibility to be fully compliant with all FDA regulations very seriously.  When we learned that we had failed to make the required FDA submissions for these changes, we acted swiftly, transparently and appropriately.  We provided the FDA with the necessary documentation, and we have now received FDA clearance for these manufacturing changes, which affect all our CRT-Ds and ICDs.  Solely on its own initiative, the Company has conducted an internal review of manufacturing and other changes for the products affected by the ship hold and product removal, as well as the associated regulatory submissions.  The review found a few additiona l instances where the Company did not submit the appropriate documentation for validated manufacturing changes for the CONFIENT, LIVIAN, PRIZM, RENEWAL and VITALITY families of products.   The Company has now submitted this documentation and is working closely with the FDA to secure clearance that will allow us to return CONFIENT, LIVIAN, PRIZM, RENEWAL and VITALITY -- the earlier generations of the Companys CRT-D and ICD products -- to market as soon as possible in the United States.  These products may continue to be implanted in geographies outside the United States.
In addition to looking back, we are looking forward to ensure our internal processes will prevent anything like this from happening again.  We have implemented more robust processes, with even more checks and balances, for the preparation and review of all change orders and associated regulatory submissions.  Our multi-functional review board will ensure that all change orders are properly processed, reviewed and submitted.
We at Boston Scientific are pleased that you are once again able to provide your patients the benefits of our COGNIS CRT-Ds and TELIGEN ICDs.
If you have questions or we can be of any assistance, please contact your local Boston Scientific representative or U.S. Technical Services at 1.800.CARDIAC (227.3422).
Sincerely,
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.3
 
 
 
April 2010
Dear Patient:
We want you to know that we have resumed distribution of our COGNIS cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT-Ds) and TELIGEN implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) to hospitals in the United States.  
The Companys decision to stop distribution of its CRT-Ds and ICDs was not related to patient safety or product quality or effectiveness, therefore there is nothing you or your doctor needs to do differently for your implanted device.
What was this situation about?
Boston Scientific voluntarily decided to stop distributing its CRT-D and ICD products on March 15, 2010 and remove them from hospital shelves, after an internal documentation review revealed that we failed to obtain the required clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for two manufacturing changes.  It is important to note that these manufacturing changes were validated and met the stringent requirements of our own internal quality system.  Upon discovering this mistake, we submitted the appropriate documentation to the FDA and have now received the necessary FDA clearance to allow us to resume distribution of our COGNISand TELIGENde vices, making it possible to once again offer these products for implant.  We are working closely with the FDA on a few additional documentation issues in order to secure clearance that will permit us to return CONFIENT, LIVIAN, PRIZM, RENEWAL, and VITALITY  the earlier generations of Boston Scientifics CRT-D and ICD products  to market as soon as possible in the United States.  These products may continue to be implanted in geographies outside the United States.
 
 
What does this mean to you?
Since the Companys decision to stop distribution of its CRT-Ds and ICDs was not related to patient safety or product quality or effectiveness, there is nothing you or your doctor needs to do differently for your implanted device. There have been no device malfunctions associated with these two filing omissions, nor are any expected in the future.
We are not recommending any changes to normal follow-up procedure for patients previously implanted with Boston Scientific CRT-D or ICD devices.
 
We apologize for any concern this situation has caused you and your family members. We encourage you to contact your heart doctor or Boston Scientific Patient Services if you have any additional questions. You can reach our Patient Services team by calling 1.866.484.3268 and pressing 2 when prompted.
Sincerely,
 
 
 
 


