FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20101220170309.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)           Exhibits (# compensatory plans or arrangements)
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
Boston Scientific Corporation
Performance Share Program (Program)
Performance Period January 1, 2011 - December 31, 2013
 
 
The purpose of the Program is to align Boston Scientifics executive compensation program with the interests of shareholders and to reinforce the concept of pay for performance by comparing the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of shares of Boston Scientific Corporation Common Stock (the Common Stock) to the TSR of companies included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index over a three-year period beginning on January 1, 2011.
 
The Program shall be administered under the Boston Scientific Corporation 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the 2003 LTIP).  Defined terms not explicitly defined in this Program document but defined in the 2003 LTIP shall have the same meaning as in the 2003 LTIP. For covered employees, the 2010 Plan is established under section 4.a.(9) of the Boston Scientific Corporation 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and is intended to qualify for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code).
 
Boston Scientific must achieve performance greater than the median TSR of the S&P 500 Healthcare Index for eligible executives to earn the target award under the Program (as set forth in Section III below).
 
 
The Program covers members of the Executive and Operating Committees on the date that awards are granted under the Program.
 
The Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the Committee) may review Program eligibility criteria for participants in the Program from time to time and may revise such criteria at any time, even within a Program year, with or without notice and within its sole discretion.
 
 
The performance share units granted under the Program (the Performance Share Units) shall vest based on the TSR of the Common Stock relative to the TSR of companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index. The Common Stock underlying the Performance Share Units awarded under the Program will be granted under the Boston Scientific 2003 LTIP.
 
The TSR for Boston Scientific and all companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index will be measured in three annual Performance Cycles (as defined below) over a three-year period beginning January 1, 2011 and ending on December 31, 2013 (the Performance Period).
 
The final TSR calculation for determination of Performance Share Units that will vest will be the simple average of the TSR as measured based on each of the three annual Performance Cycles.
 
 
 
 
 
The Performance Share Units will pay out in shares of Common Stock in a range of 0% to 260% of the target number of Performance Share Units awarded to the participant as follows:
 
If vesting occurs, the Performance Share Units will pay out linearly between each set of data points.
Following the end of the Performance Period, the Committee shall determine the number of shares of Common Stock earned, which determination shall be final and binding. Shares of Common Stock earned will be delivered or otherwise made available to the participant in 2014,no later than March 15, 2014.
 
 
 
The TSR for Boston Scientific and each company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index shall include any cash dividends paid during the Performance Period and shall be determined as follows:
 
=
Total Shareholder Return for each Performance Cycle
 
(Change in Stock Price + Dividends Paid) / Beginning Stock Price
 
Total Shareholder Return for the three-year Performance Period =
 
Results of (Performance Cycle 1 + Performance Cycle 2 + Performance Cycle 3) / 3
 
 means the daily average closing price as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Global Select Market, as applicable, of one (1) share of common stock for the two calendar months to the beginning of each Performance Cycle.
Beginning Stock Price
prior
 
 means the difference between the Beginning Stock Price and the Ending Stock Price.
Change in Stock Price
 
 means the total of all cash dividends paid on one (1) share of stock during the applicable Performance Cycle.
Dividends Paid
 
 means the daily average closing price as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Global Select Market, as applicable, of one (1) share of common stock for the last two calendar months of the Performance Cycle.
Ending Stock Price
 
 means the annual period commencing each January 1 and ending on December 31 during the Performance Period.
Performance Cycle
 
 is the Performance Cycle during which the Beginning Stock Price is determined as of January 1, 2011 and the Ending Stock Price is determined as of December 31, 2011.
Performance Cycle 1
 
 is the Performance Cycle during which the Beginning Stock Price is determined as of January 1, 2012 and the Ending Stock Price is determined as of December 31, 2012.
Performance Cycle 2
 
 
 
 
 is the Performance Cycle during which the Beginning Stock Price is determined as of January 1, 2013 and the Ending Stock Price is determined as of December 31, 2013.
Performance Cycle 3
 
If the Beginning Stock Price for a company was $25.00 per share, and the company paid $2.50 in dividends over the Performance Cycle, and the Ending Stock Price was $30.00 per share (thereby making the Change in Stock Price $5.00 ($30.00 minus $25.00)), then the TSR for that company would be thirty percent (30%).  The calculation is as follows:   = ($5.00 + $2.50) / $25.00
Example:  
0.30
 
 
 
Following the calculation of the TSR for the Performance Periodfor Boston Scientific and each of the companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index, Boston Scientific and the companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index will be ranked, in order of maximum to minimum, according to their respective TSR for the Performance Period.
 
 
After this ranking, the percentile performance of Boston Scientific as compared to the other companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index shall be determined by the following formula:
 
P represents the percentile performance which will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest whole percentile by application of standard scientific rounding conventions.
 
N represents the number of companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index, including Boston Scientific.
 
R represents Boston Scientifics ranking versus the other companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
 
If Boston Scientific ranked 10 out of 54 companies, the performance will be in the 83 percentile.
Example:  
th
rd
 
This calculation is as follows:     = 1  (10  1) / (54  1)
0.83
 
 
 
 
The companies currently included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index can be found in Appendix A attached hereto.
Only companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index for an entire performance cycle will be used to determine TSR percentile rank.
If two companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index merge, the surviving company shall remain in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
If a company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index merges with, or is acquired by, a company that is not in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index, and the company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index is the surviving company, then the surviving company shall be included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
If a company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index merges with, or is acquired by, a company that is not in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index, and the company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index is not the surviving company or the surviving company is no longer publicly traded, then the surviving company shall not be included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index ceases to be listed in the Healthcare Sector under the Standard & Poors Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) at anytime during the Performance Period (including after a merger, acquisition or other business transaction described above), then it shall not be included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
 
 
A participant must be employed by Boston Scientific on December 31, 2013 to be eligible to receive the full award under the Program.  Except as set forth below with respect to a Change in Control or termination of employment as a result of Retirement, death,  or Disability, no Performance Share Units shall vest prior to December 31, 2013. Participants on military, sick or other bona fide leave of absence on December 31, 2013 will not be deemed to have terminated employment with Boston Scientific if such absence does not exceed 180 days or, if longer,  if the participant retains the right by statute or by contract to return to employment with Boston Scientific.
 
If a participants employment with Boston Scientific terminates before the end of the Performance Period, any unvested Performance Share Units shall be forfeited on the effective date of the termination of employment, except in connection with Retirement, death, Disability or upon a Change in Control as outlined below.
 
Upon a Change in Control or if a participants employment terminates due to Retirement, death, or Disability after the end of Performance Cycle 1 (December 31, 2011) but prior to the end of the Performance Period, the Performance Share Units shall remain outstanding and shares of Common Stock shall be issued within 90 days of the Change in Control or termination and on a prorated basis in accordance with Section III but using the date of the participants termination of employment (as described below).  The number of prorated shares to be issued to the participant, if any, will be approved by the Committee at its next regular meeting.
The number of shares to be issued on a prorated basis shall be determined as follows: (# Performance Share Units awarded) * ((# of months worked during the Performance Period, rounded to nearest whole month) / 36).  This result will be multiplied by either the Performance
 
 
 
 
Cycle 1 percentile performance funding amount (as calculated according to the chart in Section III) if the date of the Change in Control or the participants termination of employment due to Retirement, death, or Disability is in Performance Cycle 2 the average of the Performance Cycle 1 and Performance Cycle 2 percentile performance funding amount (as calculated according to the chart in Section III), if the date of the Change in Control or the date participants employment is terminated due to Retirement, death or Disability is in Performance Cycle 3.
or
The Committee has sole authority over administration and interpretation of the Program and retains its right to exercise discretion as it sees fit, except that, with respect to covered employees, the Committee shall have no discretion to increase the number of shares of Common Stock earned above the amount payable in accordance with Section III.  The Committee may terminate, suspend or modify and if suspended, may reinstate with or without modification all or part of the Program at any time, with or without notice to the participant.  The Committee reserves the exclusive right to determine eligibility to participate in this Program and to interpret all applicable terms and conditions, including eligibility criteria.
 
 
This document sets forth the terms of the Program and is not intended to be a contract or employment agreement between the participant and Boston Scientific.  As applicable, it is understood that both the participant and Boston Scientific have the right to terminate the participants employment with Boston Scientific at any time, with or without cause and with or without notice, in acknowledgement of the fact that their employment relationship is at will.
 
 
To the extent section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) applies to any award under this Program, the award shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Code section 409A.  Where section 409A applies, in the case of any payment made on termination of employment, a termination of employment shall not be deemed to have occurred unless such termination is also a separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A and, for purposes of any such provision, references to a termination, termination of employment, or like terms shall mean separation from service.  Where section 409A applies, in the case of a payment made upon a Change In Control, a Change In Control shall not be deemed to have occurred unless there is a change in the ow nership or effective control of Boston Scientific, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of Boston Scientific, as defined in Code section 409A.  Where required by section 409A in the case of a specified employee, payments on termination shall be made on the first business day of the seventh month following termination.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Natick, MA (December 20, 2010) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced that the Companys Board of Directors has elected Kristina M. Johnson, Ph.D., as a Director, effective January 1, 2011.  Dr. Johnson previously served as a Director of Boston Scientific before accepting an appointment in 2009 as Under Secretary at the U.S. Department of Energy.
Prior to her appointment as Under Secretary, Dr. Johnson was Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs at The Johns Hopkins University.  Previously, she served as Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke University.  She has held positions as a full professor in the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, University of Colorado-Boulder, and Director of the National Science Foundation Engineering Research Center for Optoelectronics Computing Systems.  Dr. Johnson has served as a director of AES Corporation, Minerals Technologies, Inc. and Nortel Networks Corporation.
Dr. Johnson received B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from Stanford University.  She was a Fulbright Faculty Scholar in the Department of Electrical Engineering at the University of Edinburgh, and a NATO Post-Doctoral Fellow at Trinity College, Dublin.  Dr. Johnson has been recognized with numerous awards for her many contributions to engineering, including the John Fritz Medal, which is widely considered the highest award in the engineering profession.  Previous recipients include Alexander Graham Bell, Thomas Edison and Orville Wright.
We are very pleased to welcome Dr. Johnson back to Boston Scientific, said Pete Nicholas, Chairman of the Boston Scientific Board of Directors.  She is a distinguished leader with a broad range of expertise in science, technology, business, education and government.  We are extremely fortunate to have someone of her intellect, talent and experience as a member of our Board.
With the election of Dr. Johnson, the Boston Scientific Board of Directors increases to 13 members.
About Boston Scientific
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties.  For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
 
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our leadership and corporate governance.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if c ertain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and, future business decisions made by us and our competitors.  All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control.  For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item 1A  in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file hereafter.  We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Risk Factors
Risk Factors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


