FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20100720170139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 20, 2010, Boston Scientific Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2010. A copy of the release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
 
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
- 2 -
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 -
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Natick, MA (July 20, 2010) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2010, as well as guidance for net sales and earnings per share (EPS) for the third quarter and full year 2010. 
Second quarter highlights (sales growth rates are at constant currency):
 
I am proud of the way the organization executed in a number of key areas during the quarter, said Ray Elliott, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific.  In CRM, we finished the quarter well ahead of where we expected to be, thanks to exceptional execution by the sales team and everyone else involved in our recovery.  The continued success of our PROMUS Element rollout in Europe was another example of outstanding execution to go along with a very strong 46 percent U.S. DES market share.  Once again, our Endoscopy and Womens Health businesses turned in excellent results.  In all, 44 percent of our sales in the quarter came from new products, a testament to the building strength of our R&D pipeline.
Net sales for the second quarter of 2010 were $1.928 billion, as compared to net sales of $2.074 billion for the second quarter of 2009, a decrease of seven percent on both a reported and constant currency basis, driven primarily by the cardiac rhythm management (CRM) ship hold and product removal actions in the first quarter.
Worldwide CRM net sales for the second quarter  on a reported basis  were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Worldwide coronary stent system net sales for the second quarter  on a reported basis  were as follows:
 
 
Reported net income for the second quarter of 2010 was $98 million, or $0.06 per share.  Reported results included goodwill impairment-related credits; restructuring-related charges; and amortization expense (after-tax) of $92 million, or $0.06 per share, which consisted of:
Adjusted net income for the second quarter of 2010, excluding these net charges, was $190 million, or $0.12 per share.
Reported net income for the second quarter of 2009 was $158 million, or $0.10 per share.  Reported results included intangible asset impairment charges; acquisition- and restructuring-related charges; discrete tax benefits; and amortization expense (after-tax) of $139 million, or $0.10 per share.  Adjusted net income for the second quarter of 2009, excluding these net charges, was $297 million, or $0.20 per share.
Guidance for Third Quarter and Full Year 2010
The Company estimates net sales for the third quarter of 2010 of between $1.850 billion and $1.925 billion.  Adjusted earnings, excluding restructuring and restructuring-related costs and amortization expense, are estimated to range between $0.10 and $0.13 per share. The Company estimates earnings on a GAAP basis of between $0.01 and $0.05 per share.
 
2
 
The Company is revising estimates for the full year ending December 31, 2010.  The Company now estimates net sales for the full year 2010 of between $7.6 billion and $7.9 billion.  Adjusted earnings, excluding goodwill and intangible asset impairment net charges, acquisition-related credits, restructuring and restructuring-related costs, and amortization expense, are estimated to range between $0.54 and $0.62 per share.  The Company now estimates a net loss on a GAAP basis of between $(0.91) and $(0.81) per share.
Boston Scientific officials will be discussing these results with analysts on a conference call at 8:00 a.m. (ET) Wednesday, July 21. The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website: www.bostonscientific.com. Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our expected net sales, GAAP earnings and adjusted earnings for the third quarter and full year 2010; our financial p erformance; new product approvals and sales; regulatory compliance and product removal actions; our market position; cash flow; the effect of our debt refinancing and repayments; write-down of goodwill and other asset impairments; our capacity to fund acquisitions and other investments; and our restructuring activities.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These risks and uncertainties, in some cases, have affected and in the future could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Risks and uncertainties that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions and the market acceptance of those products; clinical trial results; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; the effect of our goodwill impairment charges and our restructuring initiatives; and future business decisions made by us and our competitors. New risks and uncertainties may arise from time to time and are difficult to predict. All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control.  For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item IA  211; in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file hereafter.  We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this press release.
Risk Factors
Risk Factors
 
 
3
 
Use of non-GAAP Financial Information
 
A reconciliation of the Company's non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures, and an explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures, is included in the exhibits attached to this press release. 
     
CONTACT: 
Paul Donovan
508-650-8541 (office) 
508-667-5165 (mobile)
Media Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation
Larry Neumann
508-650-8696 (office)
Investor Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
 
Assumes dilution of 9.1 million shares for the six months ended June 30, 2010 for all or a portion of these non-GAAP adjustments.
*
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
7
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
Growth rates are based on actual, non-rounded amounts and may not recalculate precisely.
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
Growth rates are based on actual, non-rounded amounts and may not recalculate precisely.
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
12
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement Boston Scientifics condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis; the Company discloses certain non-GAAP measures that exclude certain amounts, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income is GAAP net income and the GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income per share is GAAP net income per share. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measure are included in the accompanying schedules.
To calculate regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange, the Company converts actual current-period net sales from local currency to U.S. dollars using constant foreign exchange rates. The GAAP measure most comparable to this non-GAAP measure is growth rate percentages based on GAAP revenue. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the corresponding GAAP measure is included in the accompanying schedules.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by Boston Scientific
Management uses these supplemental non-GAAP measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Companys business, to assess its performance relative to its competitors, and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP measures to further its understanding of the performance of the Companys operating segments. The adjustments excluded from the Companys non-GAAP measures are consistent with those excluded from its reportable segments measure of profit or loss. These adjustments are excluded from the segment measures that are reported to the Companys chief operating decision maker and are used to make operating decisions and assess performance.
The following is an explanation of each of the adjustments that management excluded as part of its non-GAAP measures for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 and for the forecasted three month period ending September 30, 2010 and full year ending December 31, 2010, as well as reasons for excluding each of these individual items:
 
14
 
Material Limitations Associated with the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange may have limitations as analytical tools, and these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a replacement for GAAP financial measures. Some of the limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures are:
 
15
 
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Boston Scientific compensates for the limitations on its non-GAAP financial measures by relying upon its GAAP results to gain a complete picture of the Companys performance. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
The Company provides detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying schedules, and Boston Scientific encourages investors to review these reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
The Company believes that presenting non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors greater transparency to the information used by Boston Scientific management for its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see Boston Scientifics results through the eyes of management. The Company further believes that providing this information better enables Boston Scientifics investors to understand the Companys operating performance and to evaluate the methodology used by management to evaluate and measure such performance.
 
16
 


