FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20100210171941.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
On February 10, 2010, Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2009, as well as guidance for net sales and earnings per share for the first quarter and full year 2010.  A copy of the release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
On February 6, 2010, the Board of Directors of Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) approved, and the Company committed to, a series of management changes and restructuring initiatives (the 2010 Plan), designed to strengthen the Company and position it for long-term success.  The Company estimates that the Plan will reduce annual pre-tax operating expenses by approximately $200 million to $250 million once completed in 2011. Key activities under the plan include the integration of the Companys Cardiovascular and Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) businesses; the centralization of the Companys R&D organization; and the restructuring of certain other businesses, regions, corporate functions and product franchises in order to drive innovation, accelerate profitable growth and increase both accountability and shareholder value. The Company anticipates the elimination of 1,000 to 1,300 positions as a result of the execution of the 2010 Plan. Activities under the 2010 Plan will be initiated in the first quarter of 2010 and are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2011.
The Company estimates that the 2010 Plan will result in total pre-tax charges of approximately $180 million to $200 million, of which the Company estimates approximately $140 million to $160 million will be recorded in 2010, and that approximately $170 million to $190 million of total charges will result in future cash outlays. The following table provides a summary of the Companys estimates of costs associated with the 2010 Plan by major type of cost:
- 2 - -
 
The Company estimates that during the first quarter of 2010, it will record approximately $85 million to $95 million of restructuring charges associated with the 2010 Plan. The Company will record the remaining expenses throughout 2010 and 2011. The restructuring charges will be recorded pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards CodificationTopic 420,
, .
Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations;
Topic 712,
Compensation  Nonretirement Postemployment Benefits;
and Topic 360,
Property, Plant and Equipment
as applicable
 
This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our restructuring plans, management changes and operational and growth strategies.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements. 
 
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2.
 
On February 6, 2010, our Board of Directors approved certain management changes as part of the restructuring initiatives designed to provide the Company with the organizational structure and leadership needed to execute our strategic plan.  Certain of our Named Executive Officers are affected as follows:
 
- 3 - -
Effective March 1, 2010, Sam Leno will be promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer, Jeffrey Capello will be promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and, effective February 10, 2010, Fred Colen was promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer.  As a result of eliminating our International Headquarters, David McFauls position as Senior Vice President, International will be eliminated.
 
Also on February 6, 2010, the Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of our Board of Directors approved compensation adjustments for the following Named Executive Officers.  
 
In connection with his promotion, the Committee increased Mr. Lenos annual base salary to $645,000 and authorized an annual equity award in the amount of $2,000,000, consisting of 25% performance share units, 25% deferred stock units and 50% non-qualified stock options.  He was also awarded 50,000 deferred stock units, valued at approximately $450,000, in connection with his assumption of increased responsibilities.  All equity awards will be issued at the close of business on the first day of the next open window under our Stock Trading Policy.
 
In connection with his promotion, the Committee increased Mr. Capellos annual base salary to $600,000 per year, his incentive opportunity under our 2010 Performance Incentive Plan to 70% of his base salary and authorized an annual equity award in the amount of $750,000, consisting of 25% performance share units, 25% deferred stock units and 50% non-qualified stock options, as well as an equity grant of $2,250,000 in connection with his assumption of increased responsibilities, consisting of 25% deferred stock units and 75% non-qualified stock options.  All equity awards will be issued at the close of business on the first day of the next open window under our Stock Trading Policy.
 
In connection with his promotion, the Committee increased Mr. Colens annual base salary to $600,000 and authorized an equity award in the amount of $2,000,000, consisting of 25% performance share units, 25% deferred stock units and 50% non-qualified stock options, representing an annual equity grant to Mr. Colen and an award in connection with his assumption of increased responsibilities.  All equity awards will be issued at the close of business on the first day of the next open window under our Stock Trading Policy.
 
Mr. McFaul stepped down from our Executive Committee on February 10, 2010 but will remain with the Company until March 30, 2010 in order to assist with international restructuring efforts.  As part of his separation, Mr. McFaul will receive severance pay equal to twelve months of his base salary of $405,000 pursuant to our existing Severance Pay and Layoff Notification Plan, and health and welfare benefits for the severance pay period.  In addition, Mr. McFaul will receive a lump sum payment equal to his annual base salary of $405,000 on or about March 30, 2010 and an amount equal to a pro-rated executive allowance under our Executive Allowance Plan, or $6,250.
 
 
- 4 - -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - -
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 6 - -
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Natick, MA (February 10, 2010) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2009, as well as guidance for net sales and earnings per share (EPS) for the first quarter and full year 2010. 
Fourth quarter highlights (sales growth rates are at constant currency):
We delivered a quarter in line with expectations, coming in at the middle of our sales range and the high end of our adjusted earnings range, said Ray Elliott, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific.  Endoscopy, Urology/Gynecology and Neuromodulation posted excellent growth, and we maintained our clear leadership in the global drug-eluting stent market.  In Japan, we have launched COGNIS, TELIGEN and our PROMUS Everolimus-Eluting Coronary Stent System, three important new products in this key market.  COGNIS and TELIGEN, the smallest and thinnest high-energy devices, are now available worldwide.
The litigation settlement announced last week with Johnson & Johnson is part of our ongoing effort across the Company to reduce risk, said Elliott.  We have the financial strength and flexibility to meet this obligation with no appreciable impact on our debt covenants and still retain significant liquidity."
Fourth Quarter 2009
Net sales for the fourth quarter of 2009 were $2.079 billion, as compared to net sales of $2.002 billion for the fourth quarter of 2008. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and net sales from divested businesses, net sales were flat with the prior period.
Worldwide Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) group net sales for the fourth quarter  on a reported basis  were as follows:
 
 
 
Worldwide coronary stent system net sales for the fourth quarter  on a reported basis  were as follows:
 
 
 
Reported net loss for the fourth quarter of 2009 was $1.075 billion, or $0.71 per share. Reported results included intangible asset impairment charges; acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation- and restructuring-related net charges; discrete tax items; and amortization expense (after-tax) of $1.379 billion, or $0.91 per share, which consisted of:
2
Adjusted net income for the fourth quarter of 2009, excluding these net charges, was $304 million, or $0.20 per share.
Reported net loss for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $2.394 billion, or $1.59 per share, which included a $2.613 billion, or $1.74 per share, goodwill write-down. Reported results also included intangible asset impairment charges; acquisition-, divestiture-, restructuring- and litigation-related net charges; discrete tax benefits, and amortization expense (after-tax) of $83 million, or $0.05 per share. Adjusted net income for the fourth quarter of 2008, excluding these net charges, was $302 million, or $0.20 per share.
 
 
Full Year 2009
Net sales for the full year 2009 were $8.188 billion, as compared to net sales of $8.050 billion for the full year 2008, which included sales from divested businesses of $69 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and net sales from divested businesses, net sales increased four percent over the prior period.
Worldwide CRM group sales for the full year  on a reported basis  were as follows:
 
 
 
Worldwide coronary stent system sales for the full year  on a reported basis  were as follows:
3
 
 
 
Reported net loss for the full year 2009 was $1.025 billion, or $0.68 per share. Reported results included acquisition-, divestiture-, restructuring- and litigation-related net charges; discrete tax items; and amortization expense (after-tax) of $2.207 billion, or $1.46 per share, which consisted of:
Adjusted net income for the full year 2009, excluding these net charges, was $1.182 billion, or $0.78 per share.
Reported net loss for the full year 2008 was $2.036 billion, or $1.36 per share, which included a $2.613 billion, or $1.74 per share, goodwill write-down. Reported results also included intangible asset impairment charges; acquisition-, divestiture-, restructuring- and litigation-related net credits; discrete tax items, and amortization expense (after-tax) of $622 million, or $0.42 per share. Adjusted net income for the full year 2008, excluding these net charges, was $1.199 billion, or $0.80 per share.
Guidance for First Quarter and Full Year 2010
The Company estimates net sales for the first quarter of 2010 of between $2.000 billion and $2.100 billion. Adjusted earnings, excluding acquisition-related credits, restructuring and restructuring-related costs, and amortization expense, are estimated to range between $0.13
 
 
4
and $0.17 per share. The Company estimates net income on a GAAP basis of between $0.15 and $0.20 per share.
The Company estimates net sales for the full year 2010 of between $8.100 billion and $8.500 billion. Adjusted earnings, excluding acquisition-related credits, restructuring and restructuring-related costs, and amortization expense, are estimated to range between $0.62 and $0.72 per share. The Company estimates net income on a GAAP basis of between $0.37 and $0.49 per share.
Boston Scientific officials will be discussing these results with analysts on a conference call at 8:00 a.m. (ET) Thursday, February 11. The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website: www.bostonscientific.com. Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our financial performance, new product approvals and launches, our market position, acquisitions and divestitures, restructuring activities and litigation matters.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and future business decisions made by us and our competitors.  All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control.  For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item IA- in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file thereafter.  We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will
Risk Factors
Risk Factors
 
5
differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Use of non-GAAP Financial Information
 
A reconciliation of the Company's non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures, and an explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures, is included in the exhibits attached to this press release. 
    
 
CONTACT: 
Paul Donovan
508-650-8541 (office) 
508-667-5165 (mobile)
Media Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation
Larry Neumann
508-650-8696 (office)
Investor Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
7
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
Growth rates are based on actual, non-rounded amounts and may not recalculate precisely.
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Growth rates are based on actual, non-rounded amounts and may not recalculate precisely.
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
13
 
 
 
 
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
14
An explanation of the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures is provided at the end of this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement Boston Scientifics condensed consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis; the Company discloses certain non-GAAP measures that exclude certain amounts, including non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income is GAAP net income and the GAAP measure most comparable to non-GAAP net income per share is GAAP net income per share. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measure are included in the accompanying schedules.
To calculate regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange, the Company converts actual current-period net sales from local currency to U.S. dollars using constant foreign exchange rates. The GAAP measure most comparable to this non-GAAP measure is growth rate percentages based on GAAP revenue. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the corresponding GAAP measure is included in the accompanying schedules.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by Boston Scientific
Management uses these supplemental non-GAAP measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in the Companys business, to assess its performance relative to its competitors, and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP measures to further its understanding of the performance of the Companys operating segments. The adjustments excluded from the Companys non-GAAP measures are consistent with those excluded from its reportable segments measure of profit or loss. These adjustments are excluded from the segment measures that are reported to the Companys chief operating decision maker and are used to make operating decisions and assess performance.
The following is an explanation of each of the adjustments that management excluded as part of its non-GAAP measures for the three months and year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for the forecasted three month period ending March 31, 2010 and full year ending December 31, 2010, as well as reasons for excluding each of these individual items:
 
 
16
 
 
17
 
Material Limitations Associated with the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange may have limitations as analytical tools, and these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a replacement for GAAP financial measures. Some of the limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures are:
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Boston Scientific compensates for the limitations on its non-GAAP financial measures by relying upon its GAAP results to gain a complete picture of the Companys performance. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the Company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Companys performance.
18
The Company provides detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying schedules, and Boston Scientific encourages investors to review these reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
The Company believes that presenting non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, and regional and divisional revenue growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors greater transparency to the information used by Boston Scientific management for its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see Boston Scientifics results through the eyes of management. The Company further believes that providing this information better enables Boston Scientifics investors to understand the Companys operating performance and to evaluate the methodology used by management to evaluate and measure such performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
Natick, MA (February 10, 2010)  Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced a series of management changes and restructuring initiatives designed to strengthen the Company and position it for long-term success.
The actions we are announcing today will provide the organizational structure and leadership needed to execute our strategic plan and fulfill the enormous promise of this company, said Ray Elliott, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific.  They are aimed at driving innovation, accelerating profitable growth and increasing both accountability and shareholder value.  Above all else, they will help us better serve our customers and their patients.
Key components of the management changes and restructuring initiatives include:
 
- 2 - -
In addition, the Company announced the following management changes:
These changes to date bring together an outstanding group of seasoned leaders, with a broad range of talents and abilities and a proven history of delivering results and achieving objectives, said Elliott.  The Company and all its stakeholders stand to benefit considerably from their collective knowledge, experience and expertise.  These changes were, in part, designed to allow me to spend more time with our operating divisions and international regions, as we place greater
 
- 3 - -
emphasis on stimulating sales growth, assessing our business portfolio opportunities and expanding operating profit margins.
The Company will provide additional details on its restructuring plans during its fourth quarter earnings call at 8:00 a.m. (ET) on Thursday, February 11.  The Company will webcast the call to all interested parties through its website: Please see the website for details on how to access the webcast. The webcast will be available for one year on the Boston Scientific website.
www.bostonscientific.com.
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words. These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our restructuring initiatives, management changes, growth priorities, business portfolio rationalization, innovation, shareholder value, operational goals and strategic plans.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release. As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
 
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and, future business decisions made by us and our competitors. All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control. For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item IA- Risk Factors in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A - Risk Factors in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file thereafter. We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
- 4 - -
 
 
 
                     
 
 
- 5 - -
 


