FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20100520192730.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
As a follow-up to the actions described in Boston Scientifics press releases of March 15 and April 15, 2010, the Company has received U.S. Food and Drug Administration clearance for manufacturing changes to its LIVIAN and RENEWAL cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT-Ds) and CONFIENT, PRIZM and VITALITY implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) and is immediately resuming U.S. distribution of these products.   The Company has now resumed U.S. distribution of all its CRT-D and ICD devices.
ITEM 9.01.                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 -
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
4100 Hamline Avenue North
St. Paul, MN 55112-5798
www.bostonscientific.com
May 2010
Subject: U.S. distribution of all Boston Scientific CRT-D and ICD devices has resumed
Dear Doctor:
We are writing to inform you that we have received U.S. Food and Drug Administration clearance for manufacturing changes to our LIVIAN and RENEWAL cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT-Ds) and CONFIENT, PRIZM and VITALITY implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs), and we have resumed U.S. distribution of these products.  We have now resumed U.S. distribution of all our CRT-Ds and ICDs, and you may implant all these devices.  Your local sales representative will work with your hospital to replenish inventory.
Throughout this process there has been no indication of any risk to patient safety.  We do not recommend any modifications to normal follow-up procedure for patients previously implanted with Boston Scientific CRT-Ds or ICDs.
We are pleased we are again able to provide you and your patients the benefits of our defibrillation products.  We would like to thank you for your patience and support as we worked through this situation.
If you have questions, please contact your local Boston Scientific sales representative or U.S. Technical Services at 1.800.CARDIAC (227.3422).
Sincerely,
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
4100 Hamline Avenue North
St. Paul, MN 55112-5798
www.bostonscientific.com
May 2010
Dear Patient:
We want you to know that we have resumed distribution of all of our cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT-Ds) and implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) to hospitals in the United States.  Throughout this process there has been no indication of any risk to patient safety, so there is nothing you or your heart doctor need to do differently for your implanted device.
 
We encourage you to contact your heart doctor or Boston Scientific Patient Services if you have questions.  You can reach our Patient Services team by calling 1.866.484.3268 and pressing 2 when prompted.
Sincerely,
 
 


