FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20111216170403.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
_____________________________________________________________________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
______________________________________________________________________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 12, 2011
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   
(508) 650-8000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
(e)
    
Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On December 13, 2011, our Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee (the Compensation Committee), approved the adoption of two performance share plans, the Boston Scientific Corporation Total Shareholder Return Performance Share Plan for 2012 (the 2012 TSR PSP) and the Boston Scientific Corporation Free Cash Flow Performance Share Plan for 2012 (the 2012 FCF PSP). The performance share awards granted under these plans are a component of the overall mix of our long-term incentive program, and will represent a greater percentage of that mix for 2012. Under both plans, performance share awards will be granted to our executive officers and certain members of our senior management team in the form of deferred stock units issued under our 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan which was previously approved by our stockholders.
(A)
    
2012 Total Shareholder Return Performance Share Plan
 The purpose of the 2012 TSR PSP is to align our executive compensation program with the interests of shareholders and to reinforce the concept of pay for performance by comparing the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of our common stock to the TSR of the other companies included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index over a three-year period beginning on January 1, 2012 and ending on December 31, 2014 (the Performance Period).  Under the 2012 TSR PSP, the TSR for Boston Scientific and such other companies will be measured in three annual performance cycles over the Performance Period. At the end of the Performance Period, the final TSR will be calculated using the simple average of the TSR for the three annual performance cycles.  Performance share awards will vest only upon satisfaction of both the performance criteria and the payment eligibility criteria set forth in the 2012 TSR PSP, subject to certain exceptions in the event of a change of control or termination for retirement, death or disability.
A copy of the 2012 TSR PSP is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2012 TSR PSP.
(B)
    
2012 Free Cash Flow Performance Share Plan
The purpose of the 2012 FCF PSP is to align our executive compensation program with the interests of shareholders and to reinforce the concept of pay for performance by providing incentives for the achievement of key business performance objectives critical to our success.  Under the 2012 FCF PSP, performance will be measured by comparing our actual free cash flow for the one-year period beginning on January 1, 2012 and ending on December 31, 2012 against our 2012 financial plan performance for free cash flow. Performance share awards will only vest upon satisfaction of both the performance criteria and the payment eligibility criteria (which include a three-year service period) set forth in the 2012 FCF PSP, subject to certain exceptions in the event of a change of control or termination for retirement, death or disability.
A copy of the 2012 FCF PSP is filed as Exhibit 10.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2012 FCF PSP.
On December 12, 2011, our Compensation Committee approved the Boston Scientific Corporation Severance Pay and Layoff Notification Plan as Amended and Restated (the Bridge Plan). The Bridge Plan restates our existing Boston Scientific Corporation Severance Pay and Layoff Notification Plan (the Prior Plan) as of January 1, 2012. The purpose of the Bridge Plan is to provide, under certain circumstances, severance benefits to eligible United States employees (including executive officers) hired prior to January 1, 2012 who receive notice of involuntary termination of their employment due to a Layoff (as such term is defined in the Bridge Plan) during the two-year period starting January 1, 2012 and ending December 31, 2013. The Prior Plan will remain in effect for eligible employees who receive notice of involuntary termination of their employment due to a Layoff (as such term is defined in the Prior Plan) on or before December 31, 2011. The severance benefits available under the Bridge Plan for eligible employees meeting plan conditions generally include (a) severance pay, (b) outplacement services and (c) subsidized COBRA continuation of health coverage, all for a specified period of time following termination (the amount and duration of which are calculated based on position classification, Pay and Years of Service - as such terms as defined in the Bridge Plan). The payment of severance pay and a portion of the outplacement services above a certain amount are subject to the receipt of a release of claims. The material changes from the Prior Plan include the payment of a lump sum instead of pay continuation for the relevant period and certain pro-rated bonus payments will not be available to eligible employees unless they are employed in a bonus-eligible position for at least nine months in a given year and their termination is due to a Layoff (as such term is defined in the Bridge Plan).
A copy of the Bridge Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.3 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Bridge Plan.
(B)
    
Boston Scientific Corporation U.S. Severance Plan for Exempt Employees
On December 13, 2011, our Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, approved the adoption of the Boston Scientific Corporation U.S. Severance Plan for Exempt Employees (the Exempt Plan) effective as of January 1, 2012. The purpose of the Exempt Plan is to provide, under certain circumstances, severance benefits to (1) eligible United States exempt employees (including executive officers) who are hired on or after January 1, 2012 and (2) effective as of January 1, 2014, eligible United States exempt employees (including executive officers) hired prior to January 1, 2012 who do not receive notice of involuntary termination of their employment due to a Layoff (as such term is defined in the Exempt Plan) by December 31, 2013. The severance benefits under the Exempt Plan for eligible employees meeting plan conditions generally include (a) severance pay, (b) outplacement services and (c) subsidized COBRA continuation of health coverage, all for a specified period of time following termination (the amount and duration of which are calculated based on position classification, Pay and Years of Service - as such terms as defined in the Exempt Plan The payment of severance pay and a portion of the outplacement services above a certain amount are subject to the receipt of a release of claims.
A copy of the Exempt Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.4 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Exempt Plan.
In addition, on December 13, 2011, our Board of Directors also approved the adoption of the Boston Scientific Corporation U.S. Severance Plan for Non-Exempt Employees effective as of January 1, 2012.
ITEM 9.01.
    
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)  
    
Exhibits (# compensatory plans or arrangements)
Exhibit No
.
    
Description
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                        
                            
    
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
The purpose of the TSR Program is to align Boston Scientific's executive compensation program with the interests of shareholders and to reinforce the concept of pay for performance by comparing the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of shares of Boston Scientific Common Stock (the Common Stock) to the TSR of companies included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index over a three-year period beginning on January 1, 2012.
The TSR Program entails the grant of Deferred Stock Units, and the program shall be administered, under the Boston Scientific Corporation 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the 2011 LTIP). Terms not defined in this TSR Program document but defined in the 2011 LTIP shall have the same meaning as in the 2011 LTIP. For Covered Employees, the TSR Program is established under section 4.a.(8) of the 2011 LTIP and is intended to qualify for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code).
The TSR Program covers members of the Executive and Operating Committees on the date that awards are granted under the TSR Program as determined and in the amounts established by the Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the Committee).
The Committee may review TSR Program eligibility criteria for participants in the TSR Program from time to time and may revise such criteria at any time, even within a TSR Program year, with or without notice and within its sole discretion.
The Deferred Stock Units awarded under the TSR Program (the Performance Share Units) shall vest only upon satisfaction of both the performance criteria described in this Section III and the payment eligibility criteria described in Section VII. The applicable performance criteria are based on the TSR of the Common Stock relative to the TSR of companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
The TSR for Boston Scientific and all other companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index will be measured in three annual Performance Cycles (as defined below) over a three-year period beginning January 1, 2012 and ending on December 31, 2014 (the Performance Period).
The final TSR calculation for determination of the number of Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this Section III shall be determined to be satisfied will be the simple average of the TSR as measured based on each of the three annual Performance Cycles.
The number of Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria under this program shall be determined to have been satisfied will be in a range of 0% to 200% of the target number of Performance Share Units awarded to the participant as follows:
If the minimum level of performance is achieved, the number of Performance Share Units will be calculated linearly between each set of data points.
Following the end of the Performance Period, the Committee shall determine the number of Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied, which determination shall be final and binding. Shares of Common Stock will be delivered or otherwise made available to the participant no later than March 15, 2015 in settlement of the Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied if and to the extent the payment eligibility criteria of Section VII below are also satisfied. Any Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this Section III have not been satisfied will be forfeited in their entirety.
The TSR for Boston Scientific and each other company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index shall include any cash dividends paid during the Performance Period and shall be determined as follows:
Total Shareholder Return for each Performance Cycle
=
(Change in Stock Price + Dividends Paid) / Beginning Stock Price
Total Shareholder Return for the three-year Performance Period =
Results of (Performance Cycle 1 + Performance Cycle 2 + Performance Cycle 3) / 3
Beginning Stock Price
 means the daily average closing price as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Global Select Market, as applicable, of one (1) share of common stock for the two calendar months
prior
to the beginning of each Performance Cycle.
Change in Stock Price
 means the difference between the Beginning Stock Price and the Ending Stock Price.
Dividends Paid
 means the total of all cash dividends paid on one (1) share of stock during the applicable Performance Cycle.
Ending Stock Price
 means the daily average closing price as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Global Select Market, as applicable, of one (1) share of common stock for the last two calendar months of the Performance Cycle.
Performance Cycle
 means the one-year period commencing each January 1 and ending on December 31 during the Performance Period.
Performance Cycle 1
is the Performance Cycle during which the Beginning Stock Price is determined as of January 1, 2012 and the Ending Stock Price is determined as of December 31, 2012.
Performance Cycle 2
is the Performance Cycle during which the Beginning Stock Price is determined as of January 1, 2013 and the Ending Stock Price is determined as of December 31, 2013.
Performance Cycle 3
is the Performance Cycle during which the Beginning Stock Price is determined as of January 1, 2014 and the Ending Stock Price is determined as of December 31, 2014.
Example:
If the Beginning Stock Price for a company was $25.00 per share, and the company paid $2.50 in dividends over the Performance Cycle, and the Ending Stock Price was $30.00 per share (thereby making
the Change in Stock Price $5.00 ($30.00 minus $25.00)), then the TSR for that company would be thirty percent (30%). The calculation is as follows:
0.30
= ($5.00 + $2.50) / $25.00
Following the calculation of the TSR for the Performance Period
for Boston Scientific and each of the other companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index, Boston Scientific and the other companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index will be ranked, in order of maximum to minimum, according to their respective TSR for the Performance Period.
After this ranking, the percentile performance of Boston Scientific as compared to the other companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index shall be determined by the following formula:
                        
P represents the percentile performance which will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest whole percentile by application of standard scientific rounding conventions.
N represents the number of companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index, including Boston Scientific.
R represents Boston Scientific's ranking versus the other companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
Example:
If Boston Scientific ranked 10
th
out of 54 companies, the performance (P) therefore will be in the 83
rd
percentile.
This calculation is as follows:     
0.83
= 1 - (10 - 1) / (54 - 1)
The companies currently included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index can be found in Appendix A attached hereto.
Only companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index for an entire Performance Cycle will be used to determine the TSR percentile rank for that Performance Cycle.
If two companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index merge, the surviving company shall remain in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
If a company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index merges with, or is acquired by, a company that is not in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index, and the company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index is the surviving company, then the surviving company shall be included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
If a company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index merges with, or is acquired by, a company that is not in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index, and the company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index is not the surviving company or the surviving company is no longer publicly traded, then the surviving company shall not be included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index ceases to be listed in the Healthcare Sector under the Standard & Poor's Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) at any time during the Performance Cycle (including after a merger, acquisition or other business transaction described above), then it shall not be included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
Except as set forth below with respect to a Change in Control or termination of employment due to Retirement, death, or Disability, (i) no Performance Share Units shall vest prior to the end of the Performance Period
(December 31, 2014) and (ii) a participant must be employed by the Company (as defined below) on December 31, 2014 to be eligible to receive shares of Common Stock in respect of his or her Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied.
If a participant's employment with Boston Scientific and its Affiliates (the Company) terminates before the end of the Performance Cycle 1 (December 31, 2012), all of his or her Performance Share Units shall be forfeited in their entirety.
If a participant's employment with the Company terminates after the Performance Cycle 1 ends but before the end of the Performance Period, all of his or her Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this Program have been satisfied shall be forfeited, except in connection with Retirement, death, Disability or upon a Change of Control as outlined below.
Participants on military, sick or other bona fide leave of absence on December 31, 2014 will not be deemed to have terminated employment with the Company if such absence does not exceed 180 days or, if longer, the period the participant retains the right by statute or by contract to return to employment with the Company.
If a participant's employment with the Company terminates due to Retirement, death, or Disability or there is a Change in Control after the end of Performance Cycle 1 but before the end of the Performance Period, shares of Common Stock shall be issued in respect of the Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied within 70 days of the effective date of the termination or Change in Control, as applicable, on a prorated basis using the effective date of the participant's termination of employment or the Change in Control, as applicable (as described in this Section VII below). The number of prorated shares to be issued to the participant, if any, will be approved by the Committee at its next regular meeting.
If a participant's employment terminates due to Retirement, death, or Disability or there is Change in Control is during Performance Cycle 2, then the number of shares to be issued on a prorated basis shall be determined as follows: (# Performance Share Units achieved pursuant to the table in Section III as determined by the percentile calculated for Performance Cycle 1) * ((# of months worked during the Performance Period, rounded to nearest whole month) / 36).
If a participant's employment terminates due to Retirement, death, or Disability or there is Change in Control is during Performance Cycle 3, then the number of shares to be issued on a prorated basis shall be determined as follows: (# Performance Share Units achieved pursuant to the table in Section III as determined by the simple average of the percentiles for both Performance Cycle 1 and Performance Cycle 2) * ((# of months worked during the Performance Period, rounded to nearest whole month) / 36).
The Committee has sole authority over administration and interpretation of the TSR Program and retains its right to exercise discretion as it sees fit, except that, with respect to Covered Employees, the Committee shall have no discretion to increase the number of shares of Common Stock in which a participant may vest above the amount described in Section III. The Committee may terminate, suspend or modify and if suspended, may reinstate with or without modification all or part of the TSR Program at any time, with or without notice to the participant. The Committee reserves the exclusive right to determine eligibility to participate in this TSR Program and to interpret all applicable terms and conditions, including eligibility criteria.
This document sets forth the terms of the TSR Program and is not intended to be a contract or employment agreement between the participant and the Company. As applicable, it is understood that both the participant and the Company have the right to terminate the participant's employment with the Company at any time, with or without cause and with or without notice, in acknowledgement of the fact that their employment relationship is at will.
To the extent section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) applies to any award under this TSR Program, the award shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Code section 409A. Where section 409A applies, in the case of any payment made on termination of employment, a termination of employment shall not be deemed to have occurred unless such termination is also a separation from service within the meaning of
Code section 409A and, for purposes of any such provision, references to a termination, termination of employment, or like terms shall mean separation from service. Where section 409A applies, in the case of a payment made upon a Change in Control, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to have occurred unless there is a change in the ownership or effective control of Boston Scientific, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of Boston Scientific, as defined in Code section 409A. Where required by section 409A in the case of a specified employee (as determined under Code section 409A), payments on termination shall be made on the first business day of the seventh month following termination.
Appendix A
Annual Executive LTIP Program
S&P 500 Healthcare Index - 52 Companies

EXHIBIT 10.2
The purpose of the FCF Program is to align Boston Scientific's executive compensation program with the interests of shareholders and to reinforce the concept of pay for performance by providing incentives for the achievement of key business performance objectives which are critical to the success of Boston Scientific.
The FCF Program entails the grant of Deferred Stock Units, and the program shall be administered, under the Boston Scientific Corporation 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the 2011 LTIP). Terms not explicitly defined in this FCF Program document but defined in the 2011 LTIP shall have the same meaning as in the 2011 LTIP. For Covered Employees, the FCF Program is established under section 4.a.(8) of the 2011 LTIP and is intended to qualify for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code).
The FCF Program covers members of the Executive and Operating Committees on the date that awards are granted under the FCF Program as determined and in the amounts established by the Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the Committee).
The Committee may review FCF Program eligibility criteria for participants in the FCF Program from time to time and may revise such criteria at any time, even within a FCF Program year, with or without notice and within its sole discretion.
The Deferred Stock Units awarded under the FCF Program (the Performance Share Units) shall vest only upon satisfaction of both the performance criteria described in this Section III and the payment eligibility criteria described in Section V.
The performance criteria are based on Boston Scientific's achievement of the 2012 annual financial plan performance for Free Cash Flow. Boston Scientific Free Cash Flow will be measured over a one-year performance period beginning January 1, 2012 and ending on December 31, 2012.
The number of Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria under this program shall be determined to have been satisfied will be in a range of 0% to 150% of the target number of Performance Share Units awarded to the participant as follows:
If the minimum level of performance is achieved, the number of Performance Share Units will be calculated linearly between each set of data points.
Following the end of the Performance Period, the Committee shall determine the number of Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this Program have been satisfied, which determination
shall be final and binding. Shares of Common Stock will be delivered or otherwise made available to the participant no later than January 15, 2015 in settlement of the Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied if and to the extent the payment eligibility criteria of Section V below are also satisfied. Any Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this Section III have not been satisfied shall be forfeited in their entirety.
Boston Scientific Free Cash Flow
means reported operating cash flow minus capital expenditures and excludes cash flows associated with certain significant and unusual litigation, acquisition, restructuring, and tax-related items.
Performance Period
 means the one-year period commencing January 1, 2012 and ending on December 31, 2012.
Service Period
 means the three-year period beginning January 1, 2012 and ending on December 31, 2014.
Except as set forth below with respect to a Change in Control or termination of employment due to Retirement, death or Disability, (i) no Performance Share Units shall vest prior to the end of the Service Period (December 31, 2014) and (ii) a participant must be employed by the Company (as defined below) on December 31, 2014 to be eligible to receive shares of Common Stock in respect of his or her Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied.
If a participant's employment with Boston Scientific and its Affiliates (the Company) terminates or there is a Change in Control before the end of the Performance Period (December 31, 2012), all of his or her Performance Share Units shall be forfeited in their entirety.
If a participant's employment with the Company terminates after the Performance Period but before the end of the Service Period, all of his or her Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied shall be forfeited in their entirety, except in connection with Retirement, death, Disability or upon a Change in Control as outlined below.
Participants on military, sick or other bona fide leave of absence on December 31, 2014 will not be deemed to have terminated employment with the Company if such absence does not exceed 180 days or, if longer, the period the participant retains the right by statute or by contract to return to employment with the Company.
If a participant's employment with the Company terminates due to Retirement, death, or Disability or there is a Change in Control after the end of the Performance Period but before the end of the Service Period, shares of Common Stock shall be issued in respect of the Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied within 70 days of the effective date of the termination or Change in Control, as applicable, on a prorated basis using the effective date of the participant's termination of employment or the Change in Control, as applicable (as described in this Section IV below). The number of prorated shares to be issued to the participant, if any, will be approved by the Committee at its next regular meeting.
The number of shares to be issued on a prorated basis shall be determined as follows: (# Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of the FCF Program have been satisfied) * ((# of months worked during the Service Period, rounded to nearest whole month) / 36).
The Committee has sole authority over administration and interpretation of the FCF Program and retains its right to exercise discretion as it sees fit, except that, with respect to Covered Employees, the Committee shall have no discretion to increase the number of shares of Common Stock in which a participant may vest above the amount described in Section III. The Committee may terminate, suspend or modify and if suspended, may reinstate with or without modification all or part of the FCF Program at any time, with or without notice to the participant. The Committee reserves the exclusive right to determine eligibility to participate in this FCF Program and to interpret all applicable terms and conditions, including eligibility criteria.
This document sets forth the terms of the FCF Program and is not intended to be a contract or employment agreement between the participant and the Company. As applicable, it is understood that both the participant and the Company have the right to terminate the participant's employment with the Company at any time, with or without cause and with or without notice, in acknowledgement of the fact that their employment relationship is at will.
To the extent section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) applies to any award under this FCF Program, the award shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Code section 409A. Where section 409A applies, in the case of any payment made on termination of employment, a termination of employment shall not be deemed to have occurred unless such termination is also a separation from service within the meaning of Code section 409A and, for purposes of any such provision, references to a termination, termination of employment, or like terms shall mean separation from service. Where section 409A applies, in the case of a payment made upon a Change in Control, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to have occurred unless there is a change in the ownership or effective control of Boston Scientific, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of Boston Scientific, as defined in Code section 409A. Where required by section 409A in the case of a specified employee (as determined under Code section 409A), payments on termination shall be made on the first business day of the seventh month following termination.

EXHIBIT 10.3
Boston Scientific Corporation
Severance Pay and Layoff Notification Plan
As Amended and Restated
(Bridge Plan)
Effective as of January 1, 2012
    
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.    Conditions for Receiving Severance Benefits    2
2.    Layoff    2
3.    Release Agreement    3
4.    Severance Benefits    4
5.    Payment of Severance Benefits    6
6.    Death    8
7.    Reporting Obligations    8
8.    Benefits Not Vested; Limitation of Rights    8
9.    Expatriate Employees    8
10.    Coordination With Other Plans and Arrangements    8
11.    No Assignment of Benefits    9
1.    WARN Notice    9
2.    Notice in Other Circumstances; Pay in Lieu of Notice    9
3.    Employee Rights and Obligations During Notice Period    9
4.    Effect of Layoff on Annual Performance Incentive Plan Payment    10
Boston Scientific Corporation
Severance Pay and Layoff Notification Plan
As Amended and Restated
(Bridge Plan)
A.
Introduction
This document is a complete restatement of the Boston Scientific Corporation Severance Pay and Layoff Notification Plan ("Plan"), effective as of January 1, 2012. This restatement of the Plan (which will also be known as the Bridge Plan) applies to eligible Employees who were hired or rehired by the Company prior to January 1, 2012 and receive Notice after December 31, 2011 and before January 1, 2014 (except as provided in Schedule B). For these Employees, this restatement of the Plan serves as both the Plan's official document and its summary plan description, and it supersedes and replaces any Plan document, summary, or description previously provided with respect to the Plan. The Prior Plan will continue to apply to eligible Employees who receive Notice prior to January 1, 2012 and eligible Employees described in Schedule B.
The purpose of the Plan is to provide severance benefits to eligible Employees who lose their jobs with the Company involuntarily under the circumstances specified in the Plan. The Plan is also designed to meet the requirements of the federal law known as WARN for those Employees who are entitled to notice under WARN.
The Glossary in Section K defines the capitalized terms used in this Plan (or identifies for you where in this document to find a term's meaning). When you see a capitalized term, turn to the Glossary to find its meaning.
B.
Eligibility and Participation in the Plan
You are eligible to participate in the Plan if you are a Regular Employee hired or most recently rehired by the Company prior to January 1, 2012, and you did not receive Notice under the Prior Plan by December 31, 2011. If you are eligible, you will automatically become a Plan participant on January 1, 2012.
Plan participation ends upon any of the following:
C.
Source of Severance Benefits
The Company pays the entire cost of all Severance Benefits from its general assets.
D.
Severance Benefits
The Plan provides Severance Benefits only in the event of a Layoff. If your employment terminates due to a Layoff while you are a Plan participant, you will be entitled to receive Severance Benefits only if you satisfy
all
of the following conditions:
In addition
, to be entitled to receive
Severance Pay
under the Plan, you must sign a
Release Agreement
by the deadline specified in that document, and you must not validly revoke it within the Revocation Period. (Also, Outplacement Assistance will be subject to a specified dollar limitation if you do not timely sign, or if you timely revoke, a Release Agreement.)
To receive Severance Benefits, you must continue to satisfy all applicable conditions and eligibility requirements to the date you receive those benefits, and you must comply with the reporting obligations described in Section D.7. If you fail to satisfy an applicable condition or eligibility requirement before all Severance Benefits have been provided to you, you will not be entitled to any Severance Benefits that have not yet been paid or otherwise provided. For example, if you receive Notice that your employment will terminate due to a Layoff but you terminate your employment before the date determined by the Company to be your last day of work, you will not be entitled to any Severance Benefits that have not been provided to you as of the date you terminate your employment.
A Layoff is a termination by the Company of your employment with the Company that is either:
For purposes of the Plan, if you are not a Field Employee, a new position will be considered a Similar Position if it results in no more than a 10% reduction in Base Salary and is located within 35 miles of your place of work as of the date you are offered the new position. If you are a Field Employee, a new position will be considered a Similar Position if it results in no more than a 10% reduction in Target Total Cash Compensation and is located within 35 miles of your place of work as of the date you are offered the new position.
Regardless of whether you receive Notice, your termination of employment will
not
be considered a Layoff, and you will
not
receive Severance Benefits, if your employment terminates for any reason other than a Layoff. For example, you will
not
be considered to have a Layoff, and, therefore, you will
not
receive Severance Benefits, if your employment terminates for any of the following reasons:
In addition, you will
not
be considered to have a Layoff if you accept an offer of employment in any position with the Company or any Affiliate or, in the event of a Transaction or Reorganization, with the acquiring or resulting entity.
Your receipt of Severance Pay (and certain Outplacement Assistance) under the Plan is conditioned on your execution of a Release Agreement. The Release Agreement will be a written document, in a form determined by the Company, that creates a binding agreement by you to release any claims that you have or may have against the Company (and certain related entities and individuals) that arise on or before the date you sign the Release Agreement, including without limitation, any claims under the ADEA.
If you are covered by the ADEA (or a similar state law), you will generally have a period of either 21 days or 45 days, as specified in the Release Agreement, to consider the Release Agreement before signing it, and you will be advised to consult an attorney before signing the Release Agreement. If you are covered by the ADEA (or a similar state law), you will also have the right to revoke the Release Agreement within the Revocation Period.
Although you may be given a copy of the Release Agreement before your Termination Date, you cannot sign it earlier than your Termination Date. The Plan Administrator reserves the right not to accept any Release Agreement signed before your Termination Date.
If you do not sign the Release Agreement by the deadline set by the Plan Administrator, or, if applicable, you revoke the Release Agreement within the Revocation Period, you will not receive Severance Pay under the Plan.
Except as expressly provided in Section D.4(b), your receipt of Other Severance Benefits will not be conditioned on your execution of the Release Agreement (so you may begin receiving those benefits before you have signed the Release Agreement and before the Revocation Period has expired).
If for any reason, you are provided Severance Pay and you either did not sign a Release Agreement or you timely revoked the Release Agreement, then you are required to reimburse the Company for the Severance Pay you received.
If you satisfy all of the applicable conditions and eligibility requirements, you will become
entitled to Severance Benefits, which consist of Severance Pay, Outplacement Assistance, and, if applicable, Subsidized COBRA Coverage.
Maximum of 52 weeks for all classifications.
applies to active employees under the plan(s) and coverage option(s) applicable to you (and/or your dependent(s)). The Company will be responsible for the remaining cost of the COBRA coverage during that period. If your COBRA coverage ends before the total number months of Subsidized COBRA Coverage available to you, then your Subsidized COBRA Coverage will end when your COBRA coverage ends. If you wish to continue COBRA coverage longer than the total number of months of Subsidized COBRA Coverage available to you, then you will be required to pay the full monthly cost for COBRA coverage in months after the subsidy ends.
Please note that your eligibility for Subsidized COBRA Coverage depends on your initial and continued eligibility for, and your timely election of, COBRA continuation coverage under one or more of the Company's health plans.
You will not be entitled to a cash payment or any other benefit in lieu of Subsidized COBRA Coverage under any circumstances
.
The number of months of Subsidized COBRA available to you is determined, according to the chart below, by your position classification (determined in the same manner as for calculating Severance Pay) and your Years of Service:
            
            
Maximum of 12 months for all classifications
Reemployed on September 30 (3 months and 16 days after your Termination Date), you will be required to repay 2/6 of the total amount of Severance Pay you received. (The 15-day period after the third whole month counts as a month, so you would be considered Reemployed 4 months after your Termination Date.)
In addition, Severance Pay will be reduced for benefits payable under certain other plans and arrangements as provided in Section D.10.
Your eligibility for Severance Benefits ends upon your death, unless your death occurs after your Termination Date and your execution of the Release Agreement but before your Severance Pay has been paid to you. In that case, your Severance Pay will be paid in a lump sum to the personal representative of your estate within 30 days after the Plan Administrator's receipt of written proof, satisfactory to the Plan Administrator, of the appointment of the personal representative (or, in the case of a small estate exempt
from probate, receipt of a small estate affidavit in a form satisfactory to the Plan Administrator). No Other Severance Benefits will be payable after your death.
Employees who receive Severance Benefits are expected to report benefit coverage (for example, from new employment) or other events that may affect eligibility for Severance Benefits. The Plan Administrator may condition your continued eligibility for Severance Benefits on your compliance with this reporting obligation, including your full and prompt response to requests for information.
The Plan does not give any Employee a nonforfeitable or vested right to Severance Benefits. The Plan Administrator may discontinue benefits otherwise payable to you if you do not abide by the conditions specified in the Plan or the Release Agreement. Neither the establishment of the Plan, nor any amendment of it, will be construed as giving any Employee or other person any legal or equitable right against the Company, and this Plan does not modify or in any way affect the terms of employment or service of any Employee. Nothing contained in the Plan, nor any action taken under it, will be construed as a contract of employment or as giving any Employee any right to continued employment with the Company.
This Plan applies to Employees on expatriate assignments. If, while you are on an expatriate assignment, the Company notifies you in writing that, following your expatriate assignment, you will not be offered a job with the Company or an Affiliate in the United States that results in no more than a 10% reduction in pay, that notification will be treated as Notice for purposes of this Plan, unless the reason for the Company's decision not to offer you a job in the United States is a reason that would disqualify you from eligibility for Severance Benefits under this Plan.
If you have a change in control agreement, employment agreement, or any similar arrangement with the Company or an Affiliate, any Severance Benefits payable to you under this Plan will be reduced by the amount of payments or benefits that you are or will be entitled to receive under that agreement or arrangement in connection with the termination of your employment, regardless of whether that other agreement or arrangement expressly refers to this Plan. Similarly, any Severance Pay payable to you under this Plan will be reduced by the amount of any payments that you are or will become entitled to receive under any Company or Affiliate plan designed as full or partial income replacement, including, but not limited to, payments under the Boston Scientific Corporation Executive Retirement Plan or under any of the Company's or Affiliates' short-term disability, long-term disability, or workers' compensation plans or coverages. Also, you will not be entitled to Other Severance Benefits in connection with a Layoff if you are also entitled to benefits under the Boston Scientific Corporation Executive Retirement Plan. In addition, any Severance Benefits payable to you under this Plan will be reduced by any and all other benefits or payments prescribed under any applicable law or regulation requiring severance benefits or payments. Any reduction under this Section D.10. will be effective on the day after your Termination Date.
You may not, in any manner, sell, pledge, transfer, assign, encumber, or otherwise dispose of any of your Severance Benefits before they are paid to you. Any attempt to do so will be void.
E.
Layoff Notification
When a Layoff results in a facility closing or relocation, or a significant reduction in staffing levels over a 30-day period of time through involuntary termination, and the Layoff requires advance notice under WARN, affected Employees will receive at least 60 days Notice. The Company will determine whether a Layoff requires advance notice under WARN and, if so, the appropriate notification period.
If the Company determines that a Layoff will not require advance notice under WARN, the Company will generally provide affected Employees with at least 30 days advance Notice. If for any reason the Company does not provide you with at least 30 days' Notice, your Severance Pay will be increased by the Pay that otherwise would have been due to you for the period from your Termination Date to the end of the 30-day period that begins on the date Notice is given. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Company will not be obligated to provide 30 days' advance Notice or additional Severance Pay in the event of a Layoff due to a Transaction.
At the time the Company provides you Notice, or at any later time, the Company may notify you that you are no longer required to report for active work. In that event, the Company reserves the right to change that determination and require you to report to active work during the Notice period. Even if you are not required to report to active work during your Notice period, the Company will continue to pay you your Base Salary, and will continue your benefits to the extent permitted by, and in accordance with, the applicable governing plan documents, until the end of the Notice period. As a condition of continued employment and continued eligibility for Severance Benefits, you may not be employed by another employer during the Notice period, except to the extent that the Company approved the other employment in writing before giving you Notice. Base salary continued during the Notice period (maximum of 60 days from the date of the Notice) will be paid in accordance with the Company's then current payroll cycle.
Generally, Employees are not entitled to a bonus payment under the Company's Annual PIP for a calendar year if they terminate employment with the Company and Affiliates before the payment date for that bonus (which occurs by March 15
th
of the following year). If you terminate employment due to a Layoff during a calendar year, you are
not
entitled to any bonus under the Annual PIP for that calendar year,
except
that if your Termination Date occurs on or after October 1 of a calendar year and you were employed in a PIP Eligible Position for at least 9 months in the calendar year, you will be entitled to a prorated bonus for that calendar year. The prorated bonus will be calculated by multiplying the amount of the bonus you would have received for the calendar year had you remained employed by the Company until the bonus payment date (or, if less, the target bonus) times a fraction, the denominator of which is the number of days in the calendar year, and the numerator of which is the number of days in which you were an Employee in a PIP Eligible Position during the calendar year. The prorated bonus will be paid to you on the same day that bonuses for the calendar year are paid under the Annual PIP to active Employees.
F.
Plan Administration
The Plan Administrator administers the Plan and is a named fiduciary of the Plan under ERISA. The Plan Administrator has the discretionary authority to construe and interpret all Plan provisions and to decide all issues arising under the Plan, including issues of eligibility, coverage, and benefits. Any determination by the Plan Administrator will be final and binding, in the absence of clear and convincing evidence that the Plan Administrator acted arbitrarily and capriciously. The Plan Administrator's failure to
enforce any provision of this Plan does not affect its right later to enforce that provision or any other Plan provision. In addition, the Plan Administrator has the authority, at its discretion, to delegate its responsibilities under the Plan to others.
G.
Claim and Appeal Procedures
If you (or your beneficiary) believe that you are entitled to a benefit that has not been provided or to a greater or different benefit than has been provided, or if you disagree with any other action taken by the Plan Administrator, you (or your beneficiary) may file a claim by writing to the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator will notify you of its decision on your claim within 90 days after you file it. If special circumstances require extension of the 90-day period, the Plan Administrator may extend the period for up to an additional 90 days by notifying you, in writing, of the extension, the reason for it, and the date by which the Plan Administrator expects to render a decision. If your claim is denied, in whole or in part, the Plan Administrator will notify you in writing, and the notice will include the following:
If your claim is denied, in whole or in part, you may appeal to the Plan Administrator for a review of the denial. For these purposes, you may consider your claim to have been denied if the Plan Administrator does not respond to your claim within 90 days after receiving it. The following rules apply to your right of appeal:
In its review of your claim, the Plan Administrator will take into account all comments, documents, records and other information you submit, regardless of whether the information was submitted or considered in the initial claim decision. The Plan Administrator will give you its decision, in writing, within 60 days after it receives your written request for review. If special circumstances require extension of the 60-day period, the Plan Administrator may extend the period for an additional 60 days by notifying you, in writing, of the extension, the reason for it, and the date by which you can expect a decision.
If the Plan Administrator again denies your claim, in whole or in part, it will notify you, in writing, and the notice will include the following:
H.
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
Boston Scientific Corporation, as Plan sponsor, reserves the right to terminate or amend the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time in its sole discretion, by action of its duly authorized officer.
The Plan, as restated, is a transitional plan that will remain in effect only until all Severance Benefits due have been provided to those eligible Employees who receive Notice after January 1, 2012, and before January 1, 2014. The Plan will automatically terminate once all of those Severance Benefit obligations have been satisfied.
I.
Section 409A
Code section 409A is a federal tax law governing deferred compensation. To the fullest extent possible, Severance Benefits payable under the Plan are intended to be exempt from Code section 409A's definition of "deferred compensation" under one or more exemptions available under the final Treasury regulations interpreting Code section 409A. To the extent that any such amount or benefit becomes subject to Code section 409A, the Plan is intended to comply with the applicable requirements of Code section 409A with respect to those amounts or benefits, so as to avoid the imposition of taxes and penalties. The Plan will be interpreted and administered, to the extent possible, consistent with this statement of intent.
Under Code section 409A, special payment standards apply to Specified Employees of publicly traded companies. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, in the event that any portion of the Severance Benefits due to an Employee constitutes deferred compensation subject to Code section 409A, and the Employee is a Specified Employee as of his or her Termination Date, then payment of that portion of the Severance Benefits will be delayed until the first business day following the date that is six (6) calendar months after the Employee's Termination Date (or, if earlier, the date of the Employee's death following his or her termination of employment).
J.
Governing Law
The Plan will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, to the extent not preempted by ERISA or other federal law.
K.
Glossary
When used in this document, the following words and terms have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
ADEA
means the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act, as amended.
Affiliate
means any corporation, trust, partnership, or any other entity that is considered to be a single employer with the Company under Code sections 414(b), (c), (m), or (o), such as a wholly-owned (or at least 80%-owned) subsidiary of Boston Scientific Corporation.
Annual PIP
means, for any calendar year, the applicable Boston Scientific Corporation Annual
Performance Incentive Plan.
Authorized Leave of Absence
means a leave of absence granted by the Company in accordance with its established personnel policies.
Base Salary
means your regular established rate of pay, not including overtime, shift differential, bonuses (such as the Annual PIP award), incentives, commissions, or any element of compensation other than base salary or base wages. For a full-time Regular Employee, your weekly Base Salary is your annual Base Salary divided by 52. For a part-time Regular Employee, your weekly Base Salary is your regular straight time hourly rate of pay (excluding any shift differential) multiplied the average number of hours per week (not exceeding 40) that you worked during the 12 months (or, if less, your most recent period of employment as a part-time Regular Employee) immediately preceding your Termination Date.
Board
means the board of directors of Boston Scientific Corporation.
COBRA
means the continuation coverage requirements of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended.
Code
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and its interpretive regulations.
Company
means Boston Scientific Corporation and those of its domestic participating Affiliated identified on the attached Schedule A, as it may be amended and updated from time to time.
Employee
means an individual who is employed by the Company on its United States payroll (not including any payroll in Puerto Rico) and is classified by the Company as a common law employee who receives regular and stated compensation (other than a retainer or a pension) initially reported on a federal wage and tax statement (Form W-2). An Employee does
not
include any worker who is classified by the Company as an independent contractor or leased worker (employed and paid by an unaffiliated third-party agency), even if the worker is later deemed by a court, arbitrator, or governmental agency to be a common law employee of the Company or an Affiliate.
ERISA
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and its interpretive rules and regulations.
Exempt Position
is a position that the Company has determined to be exempt from the minimum wage and overtime requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (FLSA).
Field Employee
means an Employee who participates in a field commission plan, typically in lieu of the Annual PIP (e.g., receives territory, regional, area, or national commissions).
Human Resources Department
means the human resources department of Boston Scientific Corporation.
Layoff
is defined in Section D.2.
Non-Exempt Position
means a position that the Company has determined to be covered by (that is,
not
exempt
from) the minimum wage and overtime requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (FLSA).
Notice
is a written notification that your employment with the Company will be involuntarily terminated due to a Layoff. Except as provided in Section D.9 (regarding expatriate Employees), a notification of termination of employment is not Notice unless it is in writing and specifies (1) a projected Termination Date, or (2) a time period within which your Termination Date is anticipated to occur.
Other Severance Benefits
means Outplacement Assistance and Subsidized COBRA
Coverage.
Outplacement Assistance
is defined and described in paragraph (b) of Section D.4.
Pay
means, if you are not a Field Employee, your weekly Base Salary at the rate in effect on your Termination Date. If you are a Field Employee, Pay means the sum of (1) your weekly Base Salary at the rate in effect on your Termination Date, plus (2) your weekly commissions. For this purpose, your weekly commissions will be determined by multiplying 12 times the average monthly commissions actually paid to you during the 12 months (or, if less, your most recent period of employment as a Field Employee) immediately preceding the date of your Notice, and then dividing that product by 52.
PIP Eligible Position
means a position eligible for participation in the Annual PIP.
Plan or Bridge Plan
means the Boston Scientific Corporation Severance Pay and Layoff Notification Plan, as Amended and Restated effective as of January 1, 2012, as set forth in this document and as amended from time to time.
Plan Administrator
means Boston Scientific Corporation or the person or committee appointed by the Board or its designee to supervise the administration of the Plan.
Prior Plan
means the Boston Scientific Severance Pay and Layoff Notification Plan, as Amended and Restated effective as of August 1, 2008, as in effect immediately prior to January 1, 2012.
Reemployment or Reemployed
means that, after your Termination Date, you are rehired by the Company or an Affiliate as a Regular Employee or as a defined-term employee or you are otherwise engaged by the Company or an Affiliate as an independent contractor or an assigned worker.
Regular Employee
means an Employee who is classified by the Company as a regular full-time or regular part-time Employee and who is
not
any of the following:
If you would be a Regular Employee but for your being on an Authorized Leave of Absence, then for purposes of the Plan you will continue to be a Regular Employee during your Authorized Leave of Absence.
Release Agreement
is defined in Section D.3. Your Release Agreement is part of, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Plan.
Reorganization
means any form of corporate reorganization.
Revocation Period
means the period of time, if any, during which you may revoke the Release Agreement. If you are covered by the ADEA (or a similar state law), the Revocation Period will be specified in the Release Agreement and will be 7 days (or such longer period as may be required by applicable state law) from the date you sign the Release Agreement. You do not have a Revocation Period if you are not covered by the ADEA (for example, because you are under age 40) or a similar state law that provides you a revocation right.
Severance Benefits
are defined and described in Section D.4.
Severance Pay
is defined and described in paragraph (a) of Section D.4.
Similar Position
is defined in Section D.2.
Specified Employee
has the meaning given in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(b)(i). (It basically means as one of the 50 highest paid officers of the Company.) The determination of which individuals are Specified Employees will be made in accordance with the rules and practices, consistent with Code Section 409A, established from time to time by the Board, or its designee, in its discretion.
Subsidized COBRA Coverage
is defined and described in paragraph (c) of Section D.4.
Termination Date
means the date the employer-employee relationship ends between you and the Company and all Affiliates.
Target Total Cash Compensation
means, with respect to a Field Employee, Base Salary and target field commission plan.
Transaction
means a sale or merger of all or a significant part of the Company's business or assets or an acquisition of the Company.
WARN
means the federal Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, as amended.
Year of Service
means each complete 12consecutivemonth period, beginning on the date you were most recently hired by the Company, during which you were continuously a Regular Employee of the Company or an Affiliate. In addition, for a partial year of service after the first full year, you will be credited with either (1) a Year of Service, if you have completed 6 or more full months of service between your most recent service anniversary and your Termination Date, or (2) 50% of a Year of Service if you have completed fewer than 6 full months of service between your most recent service anniversary and your Termination Date. If you most recently became an Employee through the Company's acquisition of another entity, your Years of Service will be calculated from your date of hire by the acquired entity (as reflected in the acquired entity's records).
The Boston Scientific Corporation Severance Pay and Layoff Notification Plan as Amended and Restated, effective as of January 1, 2012, is executed by the authorized representative of the Company on this __________ day of _______________, 2011.
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
By:
    
Otha T. Spriggs III
Senior Vice President, Human Resources
SCHEDULE A
Boston Scientific Corporation Domestic Participating Entities
Effective as of January 1, 2012
SCHEDULE B
Description of Additional Employees Covered by Prior Plan
The Prior Plan will continue to apply to Acquired Asthmatx Employees without regard to their date of Notice. For purposes of this Schedule B, "Acquired Asthmatx Employees" means Regular Employees of Asthmatx, Inc. who became Employees of the Company as a result of, or within one year after, Boston Scientific Corporation's acquisition of Asthmatx, Inc.

EXHIBIT 10.4
Boston Scientific Corporation U.S. Severance Plan For Exempt Employees
Effective January 1, 2012
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.    Conditions for Receiving Severance Benefits    2
2.    Layoff    2
3.    Release Agreement    3
4.    Severance Benefits    4
5.    Payment of Severance Benefits    6
6.    Death    7
7.    Reporting Obligations    8
8.    Benefits Not Vested; Limitation of Rights    8
9.    Expatriate Employees    8
10.    Coordination With Other Plans and Arrangements    8
11.    No Assignment of Benefits    9
1.    WARN Notice    9
2.    Notice in Other Circumstances; Pay in Lieu of Notice    9
3.    Employee Rights and Obligations During Notice Period    9
4.    Effect of Layoff on Annual Performance Incentive Plan Payment    9
Boston Scientific Corporation
U.S. Severance Plan For Exempt Employees
Effective January 1, 2012
A.
Introduction
Boston Scientific Corporation has established the Boston Scientific Corporation U.S. Severance Plan For Exempt Employees ("Plan"), effective as of January 1, 2012. The Plan applies to eligible Exempt Employees who are hired or rehired by the Company on or after January 1, 2012. This document serves as both the Plan's official document and its summary plan description, and it reflects the terms of the Plan as of the Effective Date. Effective as of January 1, 2014, this Plan will also apply to eligible Exempt Employees hired or rehired prior to the Effective Date who are not given Notice by December 31, 2013.
The purpose of the Plan is to provide severance benefits to eligible Exempt Employees who lose their jobs with the Company involuntarily under the circumstances specified in the Plan. The Plan is also designed to meet the requirements of the federal law known as WARN for those Exempt Employees who are entitled to notice under WARN.
The Glossary in Section K defines the capitalized terms used in this Plan (or identifies for you where in this document to find a term's meaning). When you see a capitalized term, turn to the Glossary to find its meaning.
B.
Eligibility and Participation in the Plan
You are eligible to participate in the Plan if you are a Regular Exempt Employee hired or most recently rehired by the Company on or after January 1, 2012. If you are eligible, you will automatically become a Plan participant on the date you become a Regular Exempt Employee. If you are a Regular Exempt Employee hired or most recently rehired before January 1, 2012, you will become a Plan participant on January 1, 2014, if you are not given Notice by December 31, 2013.
Plan participation ends upon any of the following:
C.
Source of Severance Benefits
The Company pays the entire cost of all Severance Benefits from its general assets.
D.
Severance Benefits
The Plan provides Severance Benefits only in the event of a Layoff. If your employment terminates due to a Layoff while you are a Plan participant, you will be entitled to
receive Severance Benefits only if you satisfy
all
of the following conditions:
In addition
, to be entitled to receive
Severance Pay
under the Plan, you must sign a
Release Agreement
by the deadline specified in that document, and you must not validly revoke it within the Revocation Period. (Also, Outplacement Assistance will be subject to a specified dollar limitation if you do not timely sign, or if you timely revoke, a Release Agreement.)
To receive Severance Benefits, you must continue to satisfy all applicable conditions and eligibility requirements to the date you receive those benefits, and you must comply with the reporting obligations described in Section D.7. If you fail to satisfy an applicable condition or eligibility requirement before all Severance Benefits have been provided to you, you will not be entitled to any Severance Benefits that have not yet been paid or otherwise provided. For example, if you receive Notice that your employment will terminate due to a Layoff but you terminate your employment before the date determined by the Company to be your last day of work, you will not be entitled to any Severance Benefits that have not been provided to you as of the date you terminate your employment.
A Layoff is a termination by the Company of your employment with the Company that is either:
For purposes of the Plan, if you are not a Field Employee, a new position will be considered a Similar Position if it results in no more than a 10% reduction in Base Salary and is located within 35 miles of your place of work as of the date you are offered the new position. If you are a Field Employee, a new position will be considered a Similar Position if it results in no more than a 10% reduction in Total Target Cash Compensation and is located within 35 miles of your place of work as of the date you are offered the new position.
Regardless of whether you receive Notice, your termination of employment will
not
be considered a Layoff, and you will
not
receive Severance Benefits, if your employment terminates for any reason other than a Layoff. For example, you will
not
be considered to have a Layoff, and, therefore, you will
not
receive Severance Benefits, if your employment terminates for any of the following reasons:
In addition, you will
not
be considered to have a Layoff if you accept an offer of employment in any position with the Company or any Affiliate or, in the event of a Transaction or Reorganization, with the acquiring or resulting entity.
Your receipt of Severance Pay (and certain Outplacement Assistance) under the Plan is conditioned on your execution of a Release Agreement. The Release Agreement will be a written document, in a form determined by the Company, that creates a binding agreement by you to release any claims that you have or may have against the Company (and certain related entities and individuals) that arise on or before the date you sign the Release Agreement, including without limitation, any claims under the ADEA.
If you are covered by the ADEA (or a similar state law), you will generally have a period of either 21 days or 45 days, as specified in the Release Agreement, to consider the Release Agreement before signing it, and you will be advised to consult an attorney before signing the Release Agreement. If you are covered by the ADEA (or a similar state law), you will also have the right to revoke the Release Agreement within the Revocation Period.
Although you may be given a copy of the Release Agreement before your Termination Date, you cannot sign it earlier than your Termination Date. The Plan Administrator reserves the right not to accept any Release Agreement signed before your Termination Date.
If you do not sign the Release Agreement by the deadline set by the Plan Administrator, or, if applicable, you revoke the Release Agreement within the Revocation Period, you will not receive Severance Pay under the Plan.
Except as expressly provided in Section D.4(b), your receipt of Other Severance Benefits will not be conditioned on your execution of the Release Agreement (so you may begin receiving those benefits before you have signed the Release Agreement and before the Revocation Period has expired).
If for any reason you are provided Severance Pay and you either did not sign a Release Agreement or you timely revoked the Release Agreement, then you are required to reimburse the Company for the Severance Pay you received.
If you satisfy all of the applicable conditions and eligibility requirements, you will become entitled to Severance Benefits, which consist of Severance Pay, Outplacement Assistance, and, if applicable, Subsidized COBRA Coverage.
Severance Pay will be equal to a number of weeks of Pay,
up to a maximum of 52 weeks,
based on your position classification and Years of Service, subject to the applicable minimum for your position classification, as shown in the following table:
            
Maximum of 52 weeks for all classifications.
timely elect COBRA continuation coverage under any of those plans, then, as part of your Severance Benefits, the Company will subsidize the cost of the elected COBRA coverage for the number of months indicated on the chart below,
up to a maximum of 12 months of Subsidized COBRA Coverage
. For the applicable number of months indicated on the chart, you will be required to pay only the monthly contribution amount that then applies to active employees under the plan(s) and coverage option(s) applicable to you (and/or your dependent(s)). The Company will be responsible for the remaining cost of the COBRA coverage during that period. If your COBRA coverage ends before the total number months of Subsidized COBRA Coverage available to you, then your Subsidized COBRA Coverage will end when your COBRA coverage ends. If you wish to continue COBRA coverage longer than the total number of months of Subsidized COBRA Coverage available to you, then you will be required to pay the full monthly cost for COBRA coverage in months after the subsidy ends.
Please note that your eligibility for Subsidized COBRA Coverage depends on your initial and continued eligibility for, and your timely election of, COBRA continuation coverage under one or more of the Company's health plans.
You will not be entitled to a cash payment or any other benefit in lieu of Subsidized COBRA Coverage under any circumstances
.
The number of months of Subsidized COBRA available to you is determined, according to the chart below, by your position classification (determined in the same manner as for calculating Severance Pay) and your Years of Service:
            
Maximum of 12 months for all classifications
or an Affiliate within 6 months after your Termination Date, then as a condition of that Reemployment, you will be required to repay to the Company a portion of your Severance Pay. The portion you will be required to repay will be a fraction of the total amount of Severance Pay you received. The denominator of the fraction will be 6, and the numerator will be 6 minus the number of months between your Termination Date and your Reemployment Date. For purposes of determining the number of months, a period of 15 days or more will be treated as a month, and a period of less than 15 days will be disregarded. For example, if your Termination date is June 15 and you become Reemployed by the Company effective September 21 (3 months and 6 days after your Termination Date), you will be required to repay 3/6 of the total amount of Severance Pay you received. (The 6-day period after the third whole month is less than 15 days and is, therefore, disregarded). If instead you become Reemployed on September 30 (3 months and 15 days after your Termination Date), you will be required to repay 2/6 of the total amount of Severance Pay you received. (The 15-day period after the third whole month counts as a month, so you would be considered Reemployed 4 months after your Termination Date.)
In addition, Severance Pay will be reduced for benefits payable under certain other plans and arrangements as provided in Section D.10.
compensation for purposes of any qualified or nonqualified deferred compensation or retirement plan (which means, for example, that 401(k) plan deferrals cannot be taken from Severance Pay).
Your eligibility for Severance Benefits ends upon your death, unless your death occurs after your Termination Date and your execution of the Release Agreement but before your Severance Pay has been paid to you. In that case, your Severance Pay will be paid in a lump sum to the personal representative of your estate within 30 days after the Plan Administrator's receipt of written proof, satisfactory to the Plan Administrator, of the appointment of the personal representative (or, in the case of a small estate exempt from probate, receipt of a small estate affidavit, in a form satisfactory to the Plan Administrator). No Other Severance Benefits will be payable after your death.
Employees who receive Severance Benefits are expected to report benefit coverage (for example, from new employment) or other events that may affect eligibility for Severance Benefits. The Plan Administrator may condition your continued eligibility for Severance Benefits on your compliance with this reporting obligation, including your full and prompt response to requests for information.
The Plan does not give any Employee a nonforfeitable or vested right to Severance Benefits. The Plan Administrator may discontinue benefits otherwise payable to you if you do not abide by the conditions specified in the Plan or the Release Agreement. Neither the establishment of the Plan, nor any amendment of it, will be construed as giving any Employee or other person any legal or equitable right against the Company, and this Plan does not modify or in any way affect the terms of employment or service of any Employee. Nothing contained in the Plan, nor any action taken under it, will be construed as a contract of employment or as giving any Employee any right to continued employment with the Company.
This Plan applies to Exempt Employees on expatriate assignments. If, while you are on an expatriate assignment, the Company notifies you in writing that, following your expatriate assignment, you will not be offered a job with the Company or an Affiliate in the United States that results in no more than a 10% reduction in pay, that notification will be treated as Notice for purposes of this Plan, unless the reason for the Company's decision not to offer you a job in the United States is a reason that would disqualify you from eligibility for Severance Benefits under this Plan.
If you have a change in control agreement, employment agreement, or any similar arrangement with the Company or an Affiliate, any Severance Benefits payable to you under this Plan will be reduced by the amount of payments or benefits that you are or will be entitled to receive
under that agreement or arrangement in connection with the termination of your employment, regardless of whether that other agreement or arrangement expressly refers to this Plan. Similarly, any Severance Pay payable to you under this Plan will be reduced by the amount of any payments that you are or will become entitled to receive under any Company or Affiliate plan designed as full or partial income replacement, including, but not limited to, payments under the Boston Scientific Corporation Executive Retirement Plan or under any of the Company's or Affiliates' short-term disability, long-term disability, or workers' compensation plans or coverages. Also, you will not be entitled to Other Severance Benefits in connection with a Layoff if you are also entitled to benefits under the Boston Scientific Corporation Executive Retirement Plan. In addition, any Severance Benefits payable to you under this Plan will be reduced by any and all other benefits or payments prescribed under any applicable law or regulation requiring severance benefits or payments. Any reduction under this Section D.10. will be effective on the day after your Termination Date.
You may not, in any manner, sell, pledge, transfer, assign, encumber, or otherwise dispose of any of your Severance Benefits before they are paid to you. Any attempt to do so will be void.
E.
Layoff Notification
When a Layoff results in a facility closing or relocation, or a significant reduction in staffing levels over a 30-day period of time through involuntary termination, and the Layoff requires advance notice under WARN, affected Exempt Employees will receive at least 60 days' Notice. The Company will determine whether a Layoff requires advance notice under WARN and, if so, the appropriate notification period.
If the Company determines that a Layoff will not require advance notice under WARN, the Company will generally provide affected Exempt Employees with at least 30 days' advance Notice. If for any reason the Company does not provide you with at least 30 days' Notice, your Severance Pay will be increased by the Pay that otherwise would have been due to you for the period from your Termination Date to the end of the 30-day period that begins on the date Notice is given. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Company will not be obligated to provide 30 days' advance Notice or additional Severance Pay in the event of a Layoff due to a Transaction.
At the time the Company provides you Notice, or at any later time, the Company may notify you that you are no longer required to report for active work. In that event, the Company reserves the right to change that determination and require you to report to active work during the Notice period. Even if you are not required to report to active work during your Notice period, the Company will continue to pay you your Base Salary, and will continue your benefits to the extent permitted by, and in accordance with, the applicable governing plan documents, until the end of the Notice period. As a condition of continued employment and continued eligibility for Severance Benefits, you may not be employed by another employer during the Notice period, except to the extent that the Company approved the other employment in writing before giving you Notice. Base salary continued during the Notice period (maximum of 60 days from the date of the Notice) will be paid in accordance with the Company's then current payroll cycle.
Generally, Employees are not entitled to a bonus payment under the Companys
Annual PIP for a calendar year if they terminate employment with the Company and Affiliates before the payment date for that bonus (which occurs by March 15
th
of the following year). If you terminate employment due to a Layoff during a calendar year, you are
not
entitled to any bonus under the Annual PIP for that calendar year,
except
that if your Termination Date occurs on or after October 1 of a calendar year and you were employed in a PIP Eligible Position for at least 9 months in the calendar year, you will be entitled to a prorated bonus for that calendar year. The prorated bonus will be calculated by multiplying the amount of the bonus you would have received for the calendar year had you remained employed by the Company until the bonus payment date (or, if less, the target bonus) times a fraction, the denominator of which is the number of days in the calendar year, and the numerator of which is the number of days in which you were an Employee in a PIP Eligible Position during the calendar year. The prorated bonus will be paid to you on the same day that bonuses for the calendar year are paid under the Annual PIP to active Employees.
F.
Plan Administration
The Plan Administrator administers the Plan and is a named fiduciary of the Plan under ERISA. The Plan Administrator has the discretionary authority to construe and interpret all Plan provisions and to decide all issues arising under the Plan, including issues of eligibility, coverage, and benefits. Any determination by the Plan Administrator will be final and binding, in the absence of clear and convincing evidence that the Plan Administrator acted arbitrarily and capriciously. The Plan Administrator's failure to enforce any provision of this Plan does not affect its right later to enforce that provision or any other Plan provision. In addition, the Plan Administrator has the authority, at its discretion, to delegate its responsibilities under the Plan to others.
G.
Claim and Appeal Procedures
If you (or your beneficiary) believe that you are entitled to a benefit that has not been provided or to a greater or different benefit than has been provided, or if you disagree with any other action taken by the Plan Administrator, you (or your beneficiary) may file a claim by writing to the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator will notify you of its decision on your claim within 90 days after you file it. If special circumstances require extension of the 90-day period, the Plan Administrator may extend the period for up to an additional 90 days by notifying you, in writing, of the extension, the reason for it, and the date by which the Plan Administrator expects to render a decision. If your claim is denied, in whole or in part, the Plan Administrator will notify you in writing, and the notice will include the following:
If your claim is denied, in whole or in part, you may appeal to the Plan Administrator for a review of the denial. For these purposes, you may consider your claim to have been denied if the Plan Administrator does not respond to your claim within 90 days after receiving it. The following rules apply to your right of appeal:
In its review of your claim, the Plan Administrator will take into account all comments, documents, records and other information you submit, regardless of whether the information was submitted or considered in the initial claim decision. The Plan Administrator will give you its decision, in writing, within 60 days after it receives your written request for review. If special circumstances require extension of the 60-day period, the Plan Administrator may extend the period for an additional 60 days by notifying you, in writing, of the extension, the reason for it, and the date by which you can expect a decision.
If the Plan Administrator again denies your claim, in whole or in part, it will notify you, in writing, and the notice will include the following:
H.
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
Boston Scientific Corporation, as Plan sponsor, reserves the right to terminate or amend the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time in its sole discretion, by action of its duly authorized officer.
I.
Section 409A
Code section 409A is a federal tax law governing deferred compensation. To the fullest extent possible, Severance Benefits payable under the Plan are intended to be exempt from Code section 409A's definition of "deferred compensation" under one or more exemptions available under the final Treasury regulations interpreting Code section 409A. To the extent that any such amount or benefit becomes subject to Code section 409A, the Plan is intended to comply with the applicable requirements of Code section 409A with respect to those amounts or benefits, so as to avoid the imposition of taxes and penalties. The Plan will be interpreted and administered, to the extent possible, consistent with this statement of intent.
Under Code section 409A, special payment standards apply to Specified Employees of publicly traded companies. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, in the event that any portion of the Severance Benefits due to an Employee constitutes deferred compensation subject to Code section 409A, and the Employee is a Specified Employee as of his or her Termination Date, then payment of that portion of the Severance Benefits will be delayed until the first business day following the date that is six (6) calendar months after the Employee's Termination Date (or, if earlier, the date of the Employee's death following his or her termination of employment).
J.
Governing Law
The Plan will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, to the extent not preempted by ERISA or other federal law.
K.
Glossary
When used in this document, the following words and terms have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
ADEA
means the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act, as amended.
Affiliate
means any corporation, trust, partnership, or any other entity that is considered to be a single employer with the Company under Code sections 414(b), (c), (m), or (o), such as a wholly-owned (or at least 80%-owned) subsidiary of Boston Scientific Corporation.
Annual PIP
means, for any calendar year, the applicable Boston Scientific Corporation Annual Performance Incentive Plan.
Authorized Leave of Absence
means a leave of absence granted by the Company in accordance with its established personnel policies.
Base Salary
means your regular established rate of pay, not including overtime, shift differential, bonuses (such as the Annual PIP award), incentives, commissions, or any element of compensation other than base salary or base wages. Your weekly Base Salary is your annual Base Salary divided by 52.
Board
means the board of directors of Boston Scientific Corporation.
COBRA
means the continuation coverage requirements of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended.
Code
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and its interpretive regulations.
Company
means Boston Scientific Corporation and those of its domestic participating Affiliated identified on the attached Schedule A, as it may be amended and updated from time to time.
Effective Date
means January 1, 2012.
Employee
means an individual who is employed by the Company on its United States payroll (not including any payroll in Puerto Rico) and is classified by the Company as a common law employee who receives regular and stated compensation (other than a retainer or a pension) initially reported on a federal wage and tax statement (Form W-2). An Employee does
not
include any worker who is classified by the Company as an independent contractor or leased worker (employed and paid by an unaffiliated third-party agency), even if the worker is later deemed by a court, arbitrator, or governmental agency to be a common law employee of the Company or an Affiliate.
ERISA
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and its interpretive rules and regulations.
Exempt Employee
means an Employee who performs a job that the Company has determined to be exempt from the minimum wage and overtime requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (FLSA).
Field Employee
means an Employee who participates in a field incentive commission plan, typically in lieu of the Annual PIP (e.g., receives territory, regional, area, or national commissions).
Human Resources Department
means the human resources department of Boston Scientific Corporation.
Layoff
is defined in Section D.2.
Notice
is a written notification that your employment with the Company will be involuntarily terminated due to a Layoff. Except as provided in Section D.9 (regarding expatriate Employees), a notification of termination of employment is not Notice unless it is in writing and specifies (1) a projected Termination Date, or (2) a time period within which your Termination Date is anticipated to occur.
Other Severance Benefits
means Outplacement Assistance and Subsidized COBRA Coverage.
Outplacement Assistance
is defined and described in paragraph (b) of Section D.4.
Pay
means, if you are not a Field Employee, your weekly Base Salary at the rate in effect on your Termination Date. If you are a Field Employee, Pay means the sum of (1) your weekly Base Salary at the rate in effect on your Termination Date, plus (2) your weekly commissions. For this purpose, your weekly commissions will be determined by multiplying 12 times the average monthly commissions actually paid to you during the 12 months (or, if less, your most recent period of employment as a Field Employee) immediately preceding the date of your Notice, and then dividing that product by 52.
PIP Eligible Position
means a position eligible for participation in the Annual PIP.
Plan
means the Boston Scientific Corporation U.S. Severance Plan For Exempt Employees, effective as of January 1, 2012, as set forth in this document and as amended from time to time.
Plan Administrator
means Boston Scientific Corporation or the person or committee appointed by the Board or its designee to supervise the administration of the Plan.
Reemployment or Reemployed
means that, after your Termination Date, you are rehired by the Company or an Affiliate as a Regular Employee or as a defined-term employee or you are otherwise engaged by the Company or an Affiliate as an independent contractor or an assigned worker.
Regular Employee
means an Employee who is classified by the Company as a regular full-time or regular part-time Employee and who is
not
any of the following:
If you would be a Regular Employee but for your being on an Authorized Leave of Absence, then for purposes of the Plan you will continue to be a Regular Employee during your Authorized Leave of Absence.
Regular Exempt Employee
means a Regular Employee who is an Exempt Employee.
Release Agreement
is defined in Section D.3. Your Release Agreement is part of,
and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Plan.
Reorganization
means any form of corporate reorganization.
Revocation Period
means the period of time, if any, during which you may revoke the Release Agreement. If you are covered by the ADEA (or a similar state law), the Revocation Period will be specified in the Release Agreement and will be 7 days (or such longer period as may be required by applicable state law) from the date you sign the Release Agreement. You do not have a Revocation Period if you are not covered by the ADEA (for example, because you are under age 40) or a similar state law that provides you a revocation right.
Severance Benefits
are defined and described in Section D.4.
Severance Pay
is defined and described in paragraph (a) of Section D.4.
Similar Position
is defined in Section D.2.
Specified Employee
has the meaning given in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(b)(i). (It basically means as one of the 50 highest paid officers of the Company.) The determination of which individuals are Specified Employees will be made in accordance with the rules and practices, consistent with Code Section 409A, established from time to time by the Board, or its designee, in its discretion.
Subsidized COBRA Coverage
is defined and described in paragraph (c) of Section D.4.
Target Total Cash Compensation
means, with respect to a Field Employee, Base Salary and target field commission plan.
Termination Date
means the date the employer-employee relationship ends between you and the Company and all Affiliates.
Transaction
means a sale or merger of all or a significant part of the Company's business or assets or an acquisition of the Company.
WARN
means the federal Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, as amended.
Year of Service
means each complete 12consecutivemonth period, beginning on the date you were most recently hired by the Company, during which you were continuously a Regular Employee of the Company or an Affiliate. In addition, for a partial year of service after the first full year, you will be credited with either (1) a Year of Service, if you have completed 6 or more full months of service between your most recent service anniversary and your Termination Date, or (2) 50% of a Year of Service if you have completed fewer than 6 full months of service between your most recent service anniversary and your Termination Date. If you most recently became an Employee through the Companys acquisition of another entity, your Years of Service will be calculated from your date of hire by the acquired entity (as reflected in the acquired entitys records).
The Boston Scientific Corporation U.S. Severance Plan For Exempt Employees, effective as of January 1, 2012, is executed by the authorized representative of the Company on this __________ day of _______________, 2011.
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
By:
    
Otha T. Spriggs III
Senior Vice President, Human Resources
SCHEDULE A
Boston Scientific Corporation Domestic Participating Entities
Effective as of January 1, 2012


