FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20110919170752.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
_____________________________________________________________________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
______________________________________________________________________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
September 13, 2011
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   
(508) 650-8000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
5.02 (c), (e)
    
Appointment of Michael F. Mahoney as President of Boston Scientific Corporation
    
On September 13, 2011, Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) announced the appointment of Michael F. Mahoney as President of the Company effective October 17, 2011 (the Hire Date). It is anticipated that Mr. Mahoney will serve as President for a transition period ending November 1, 2012, at which time it is anticipated that he will become President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
Mr. Mahoney, 46, served as Worldwide Chairman, Medical Devices and Diagnostics for Johnson & Johnson from January 2011 to September 2011. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Mahoney served as Worldwide Company Group Chairman of Johnson & Johnson's DePuy franchise, an orthopedics and neurosciences business, from April 2007 through January 2011. From January 2001 through March 2007, Mr. Mahoney served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Global Healthcare Exchange (GHX), a provider of supply chain solutions and services that bring together hospitals, IDNs, manufacturers, distributors and GPOs. Mr. Mahoney began his career at General Electric Medical Systems, where he spent 12 years, culminating in the role of General Manager of the Healthcare Information Technology business. Mr. Mahoney earned a Finance degree from the University of Iowa and an M.B.A. from Wake Forest University.
Under the terms of Mr. Mahoney's offer letter, as supplemented (the Offer Letter), Mr. Mahoney will be entitled to the following:
Under the Offer Letter, if, prior to a Change in Control (i) Mr. Mahoney is involuntarily terminated (other than for cause (as defined in the LTIP) or a material act of misconduct after notice and a cure period or as a result of death or disability) prior to being promoted to President and Chief Executive Officer or (ii) Mr. Mahoney terminates his employment for good reason (as defined in the Offer Letter, which definition includes the Company's failure to promote him to President and Chief Executive Officer prior to March 21, 2013), Mr. Mahoney is entitled to the following, subject to his execution of a general release:
Under certain circumstances the Offer Letter provides that Mr. Mahoney would be treated as though he were employed solely for purposes of determining eligibility for severance and compensation under the Offer Letter. The Offer Letter further provides that following his promotion to President and Chief Executive Officer, if Mr. Mahoney's employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company (except for cause as defined in the LTIP or a material act of misconduct after notice and a cure period) he will be subject to the Company's severance policies applicable to its senior executives, except that any unvested New Hire DSU's that remain outstanding will immediately vest.
In the event of a Change in Control after his hire date, Mr. Mahoney will be entitled to the payments and benefits provided for under the Company's standard Change in Control Agreement for its executive officers, in substantially the form previously filed with the SEC, in the event of his termination by the Company without cause or his resignation for good reason, as provided for under such agreement.
Along with our other executive officers, Mr. Mahoney will be provided with an Indemnification Agreement, in the form previously filed with the SEC.   In addition, under the Offer Letter, the Company has agreed to indemnify Mr. Mahoney in connection with certain fees, losses or expenses incurred by him in connection with any claims brought by his prior employer and which arise out of or relate to the Offer Letter, his acceptance of the Offer Letter or his performance of services thereunder.
The Offer Letter further provides that Mr. Mahoney's duties and responsibilities will be subject to the terms of a Conflicting Products Protocol Agreement (the Protocol) until November 1, 2012, at which time the restrictions under the Protocol will expire. The Protocol was put in place in connection with Mr. Mahoney's post-employment obligations to Johnson & Johnson and has been agreed to by Johnson & Johnson. Under the Protocol, Mr. Mahoney, as President of the Company, will have responsibility for the Company's Cardiac Rhythm Management and Endoscopy business units (and certain ancillary areas) and his responsibility for other businesses of the Company will be limited as provided for in the Protocol. On August 1, 2012, it is anticipated that Mr. Mahoney will assume responsibility for the Neuromodulation business unit. While President, Mr. Mahoney will report to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Offer Letter is included in this filing as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. This summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Offer Letter.
On September 13, 2011, the Company announced its appointment of William H. Kucheman as interim Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective October 17, 2011. It is anticipated that Mr. Kucheman will serve in such position until Mr. Mahoney is promoted to President and Chief Executive Officer, at which time it is anticipated that Mr. Kucheman will serve in a senior advisory role with the Company. In addition, Mr. Kucheman will be appointed to the Company's Board of Directors (the Board of Directors) effective October 17, 2011.
Mr. Kucheman, 62, has been Executive Vice President and Group President of the Cardiology, Rhythm and Vascular Group of the Company since February 2010. Previously, he was Senior Vice President and Group President of the Company's Cardiovascular Group from November 2006. Mr. Kucheman was Senior Vice President of Marketing of the Company from June 2001 to November 2006 and was Vice President, Corporate Marketing and Vice President Strategic Marketing from February 1995 to June 2001. Before joining the Company as a result of the Company's acquisition of SCIMED Life Systems, Inc., Mr. Kucheman held a
variety of management positions in sales and marketing for SCIMED, Charter Medical Corporation and Control Data Corporation. He began his career at the United States Air Force Academy Hospital and later was Healthcare Planner, Office of the Surgeon General, for the United States Air Force Medical Service. Mr. Kucheman earned a B.S. and M.B.A. from Virginia Polytechnic Institute.
Except as described herein, there are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Kucheman and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Kucheman was elected a director of the Company. Mr. Kucheman is not eligible to receive our standard director compensation because he is an employee of the Company.
Pursuant to his offer letter, Mr. Kucheman, as interim Chief Executive Officer, will be entitled to the following:
Mr. Kucheman's offer letter is included in this filing as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference. This summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the offer letter.
        
The Company previously disclosed that J. Raymond Elliott had notified the Board of Directors of his intention to retire as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective as of the end of the year.  On September 13, 2011, the Company announced that Mr. Elliott will retire as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective as of October 17, 2011 to coincide with the effective date of Mr. Mahoney's appointment as President and Mr. Kucheman's appointment as interim Chief Executive Officer of the Company. At that time, it is anticipated that Mr. Elliott will become a senior advisor of the Company, working a minimum of 20 hours per week, and will be available to assist Messers. Mahoney and Kucheman in the transition and support the Company's Leadership Academy and Close the Gap program through December 31, 2011. As disclosed previously, Mr. Elliott will continue to serve on the Company's Board of Directors.
Pursuant to his letter agreement, Mr. Elliott, as Senior Advisor, will be entitled to the following:
of DSUs under the 2011 LTIP, valued at the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date on which Mr. Elliott's incentive award is determined, fully vested upon issuance and payable on the fourth anniversary of issuance.
Mr. Elliott's letter agreement is included in this filing as Exhibit 10.3 and is incorporated herein by reference. This summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the letter agreement.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
The Board of Directors of the Company approved Restated By-Laws of Boston Scientific Corporation effective October 17, 2011 that separate the roles of President and Chief Executive Officer and make other conforming and administrative changes.
A copy of the Restated By-Laws is included in this filing as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated by reference. The changes to the Restated By-Laws described herein do not purport to be complete and are subject to and qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the Restated By-Laws.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
A copy of the Company's press release dated September 13, 2011 announcing the events described under Item 5.02 above is included in this filing as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01.
    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits (# compensatory plans or arrangements)
Exhibit No
.
    
Description
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "anticipate," "expect,"
"project," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "intend" and similar words and include, among other things, statements regarding our leadership, management transition plans, growth and business strategy. These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance. If our underlying beliefs, assumptions or estimates turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated the such statements include, among other things: Mr. Mahoney's obligations to his previous employer; arrangements with Johnson & Johnson concerning Mr. Mahoney; future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and, future business decisions made by us and our competitors. A further description of certain of these and other such important factors are set forth in Part I, Item 1A - Risk Factors of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which may be updated in Part II, Item 1A - Risk Factors of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file thereafter. While we may elect to update any forward looking statement at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to update any forward looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements. As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements or to rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                        
                            
    
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

EXHIBIT 3.1
RESTATED BY-LAWS
 
OF
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
A Delaware Corporation
ARTICLE I
OFFICES
 
Section 1.
  
Registered Office.
  The registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware shall be at 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware 19808. The name of the corporation's registered agent at such address shall be Corporation Service Company.
 
Section 2.
  
Other Offices.
  The corporation may also have offices at such other places, both within and without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the corporation may require.
 
ARTICLE II
MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS
 
Section 1.
  
Annual Meetings.
  An annual meeting of the stockholders shall be held for the purpose of electing Directors and conducting such other business as may properly come before the meeting. The date, time and place, within or without the State of Delaware, of the annual meeting shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
 
Section 2.
  
Special Meetings.
  Special meetings of stockholders may be held at such time and place, within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be stated in the notice of the meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice thereof. Special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, or, if there is no Chief Executive Officer, the President, and shall be called within 10 days after receipt of the written request of the Board of Directors, pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the Whole Board (as defined below). Any such resolution shall be sent to the Chairman of the Board or Chief Executive Officer, or, if there is no Chief Executive Officer, the President, and the Secretary of the corporation and shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting. Business transacted at any special meeting is limited to the purposes stated in the notice. For the purposes of these By-Laws, the term Whole Board is defined as the total number of Directors which the corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
 
Section 3.
  
Notice.
  Written or printed notice of every annual or special meeting of the stockholders, stating the place, date, time, and, in the case of special meetings, the purpose or purposes, of such meeting, shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting. All such notices shall be delivered, either personally or by mail, by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, or if there is no Chief Executive Officer, the President, or the Board of Directors, and if mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail addressed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the records of the corporation, with postage prepaid. When a meeting is adjourned to another place, date or time, written notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the place, date and time thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken; provided, however, that if the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, written notice of the place, date and time of the adjourned meeting shall be given in conformity herewith. At any adjourned meeting, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
 
Section 4.
  
Stockholders List.
  The officer having charge of the stock ledger of the corporation shall make, at least ten days before every meeting of the stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting arranged in alphabetical order, specifying the address of and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.
 
Section 5.
  
Quorum.
  The holders of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders except as otherwise provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation. If a quorum is not present, the holders of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting, and entitled to vote thereat, shall have the power, by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of such shares, to adjourn the meeting to another date, time and/or place, without notice other than announcement at the meeting at which the adjournment was taken, until a quorum shall be present or represented.
 
Section 6.
  
Notice of Stockholder Business.
  At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (c) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed to and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation, not less than 120 calendar days before the date of the corporation's proxy statement released to shareholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting. However, if the corporation did not hold an annual meeting the previous year, or if the date of the current year's annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date of the previous year's meeting, then the deadline is a reasonable time before the corporation begins to print and mail its proxy materials.
 
A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business, (c) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder, and (d) any material interest of the stockholder in such business. Notwithstanding anything in the By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 6 of Article II.
 
The presiding officer of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with this Section 6 of Article II, and, if the presiding officer should so determine, the presiding officer shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
 
Section 7.
  
Inspectors.
  The Board of Directors shall appoint inspectors of election to act as judges of the voting and to determine those entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders, or any adjournment thereof, in advance of such meeting, but if the Board of Directors fails to make such appointments or if an appointee fails to serve, the presiding officer of the meeting of stockholders may appoint substitute inspectors.
 
Section 8.
  
Voting.
  Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder shall be entitled at every meeting of the stockholders to one vote for each share of stock having voting power standing in the name of such stockholder on the books of the corporation on the record date for the meeting and such votes may be cast either in person or by written proxy. Every proxy must be duly executed and filed with the Secretary of the corporation. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or another duly executed proxy bearing a later date with the Secretary of the corporation. The vote upon any question brought before a meeting of the stockholders may be by voice vote, unless otherwise required by these By-Laws or unless the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of all classes of stock entitled to vote thereon present in person or by proxy at such meeting shall so determine. Every vote taken by written ballot shall be counted by the inspectors of election. When a quorum is present at any meeting, the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock which has voting power present in person or represented by proxy and which has actually voted shall decide any question properly brought before such meeting, except the election or removal of Directors or as otherwise provided in these By-Laws, the Certificate of Incorporation or a Preferred Stock Designation or by applicable law. With respect to any election or questions required to be decided by any class of stock voting as a class, the vote of the holders of a majority of such class of stock present in person or by proxy and which actually voted shall decide any such election or question.
 
Section 9.
  
Order of Business.
  Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors prior to the meeting, the presiding officer of the meeting of stockholders shall determine the order of business and shall have the authority in his discretion to regulate the conduct of any such meeting, including, without limitation, by imposing restrictions on the persons (other than stockholders of the corporation or their duly appointed proxies) who may attend any such meeting of stockholders, by ascertaining whether any stockholder or his proxy may be excluded from any meeting of stockholders based upon any determination by the presiding officer, in his sole discretion, that any such person has unduly disrupted or is likely to disrupt the
proceedings thereat, and by determining the circumstances in which any person may make a statement or ask questions at any meeting of stockholders.
 
ARTICLE III
NOMINATION OF DIRECTOR CANDIDATES
 
Section 1.
  
Notification of Nominees.
  Subject to the rights of holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nominations for the election of Directors may be made by the Board of Directors or a committee appointed by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder entitled to vote in the election of Directors generally. However, any stockholder entitled to vote in the election of Directors generally may nominate one or more persons for election as Directors at a meeting only if written notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination or nominations has been given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the corporation not later 120 calendar days before the date of the corporation's proxy statement released to shareholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting. However, if the corporation did not hold an annual meeting the previous year, or if the date of the current year's annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date of the previous year's meeting, then the deadline is a reasonable time before the corporation begins to print and mail its proxy materials.
 
If the nomination or nominations is for a meeting of stockholders other than a regularly scheduled annual meeting, the deadline is a reasonable time before the corporation begins to print and mail its proxy material.
 
Each such notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination and of the person or persons to be nominated; (b) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (d) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had the nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board of Directors; and (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a Director of the corporation if so elected.
 
Section 2.
  
Substitution of Nominees.
  If a person is validly designated as a nominee in accordance with Section 1 of this Article III, and shall thereafter become unable or unwilling to stand for election to the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors or the stockholder who proposed such nominee, as the case may be, may designate a substitute nominee upon delivery, not fewer than five days prior to the date of the meeting for the election of such nominee, of a written notice to the Secretary setting forth such information regarding such substitute nominee as would have been required to be delivered to the Secretary pursuant to Section 1 of this Article III, had such substitute nominee been initially proposed as a nominee. Such notice shall include a signed consent to serve as a Director of the corporation, if elected, of each substitute nomine.
 
Section 3.
  
Compliance with Procedures.
  If the presiding officer of the meeting for the election or Directors determines that a nomination for any candidate for election as a Director at such meeting was not made in accordance with the applicable provisions of these By-Laws, such person will not be eligible for election as a Director and such nomination shall be void; provided, however, that nothing in these By-Laws shall be deemed to limit any voting rights upon the occurrence of dividend arrearages provided to holders of Preferred Stock pursuant to the Preferred Stock Designation for any series of Preferred Stock.
 
ARTICLE IV
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
Section 1.
  
Powers.
  The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors, which may exercise all such powers of the corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
 
Section 2.
  
Number, Qualification, Election and Terms.
  Except as otherwise fixed by, or pursuant to, the provisions of Article FOURTH of the Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional Directors under specified circumstances, the number of Directors shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors, but shall not be less than three nor more than twenty persons. The Directors shall be elected by plurality vote annually by the stockholders at their annual meeting or at any special meeting the notice of which specifies the election of Directors as an item of business for
such meeting.
 
Section 3.
  
Removal.
  Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional Directors under specified circumstances, any Director may be removed from office by the stockholders in the manner provided in this Section 3 of Article IV. At any annual meeting of the stockholders of the corporation or at any special meeting of the stockholders of the corporation, the notice of which shall state that the removal of a Director or Directors is among the purposes of the meeting, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80 percent of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock (as defined below), voting together as a single class, may remove, with or without cause, such Director or Directors. For the purposes of these By-Laws, Voting Stock shall mean the outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors.
 
Section 4.
  
Vacancies and New Directorships.
  Except as otherwise fixed by or provided for or pursuant to the provisions of Article FOURTH of the Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional Directors under specified circumstances, vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of Directors shall be filled solely by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors then in office though less than quorum, or by a sole remaining Director, except as may be required by law. Any Director so chosen shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such Director's successor shall have been elected and qualified. No decrease in the authorized number of Directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent Director.
 
Section 5.
  
Regular Meetings.
  Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice immediately after the annual meeting of the stockholders and at such other time and place as shall from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 6.
  
Special Meetings and Notice.
  Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, or, if there is no Chief Executive Officer, the President, on one day's written notice to each Director by whom such notice is not waived, given either personally or by mail, telephone, telegram, telex, facsimile or similar medium of communication, and shall be called by the Chief Executive Officer, or, if there is no Chief Executive Officer, the President, or the Secretary in like manner and on like notice on the written request of any three Directors.
 
Section 7.
  
Resignation.
  Any Director may resign at any time by giving written notice of his resignation to the Chairman of the Board or the Secretary, to be effective upon its acceptance by the Board of Directors or at the time specified in such notice. Unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make such resignation effective.
 
Section 8.
  
Quorum.
  Subject to Section 4 of this Article IV and except as provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, at all meetings of Directors, a majority of the total number of Directors then in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Except for the designation of committees (as provided in Section 9 of this Article IV), the vote of a majority of Directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, a majority of the Directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time to another place, time or date, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
 
Section 9.
  
Committees.
  The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the Whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the Directors of the corporation, which to the extent provided in such resolution shall have and may exercise the powers of the Board of Directors in the management and affairs of the corporation and may authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it, except as otherwise limited by statute. The Board of Directors may designate one or more Directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. Such committee or committees shall have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors. Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the Directors when required. Each committee of the Board of Directors may fix its own rules of procedure and shall hold its meetings as provided by such rules, except as may otherwise be provided by the resolution of the Board of Directors designating such committee, and unless otherwise prescribed by the Board of Directors, the presence of at least a majority of the members of such committee shall be necessary to constitute a quorum.
 
Section 10.
  
Compensation.
  The Directors may be paid for expenses of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or a stated salary. No such
payment shall preclude any Director from serving the corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of committees designated by the Board of Directors may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.
 
Section 11.
  
Rules.
  The Board of Directors may adopt such special rules and regulations for the conduct of their meetings and the management of the affairs of the corporation as they may deem proper, not inconsistent with law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws.
 
ARTICLE V
OFFICERS
 
Section 1.
  
Number.
  The officers of the corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall consist of a president, a chairman and/or co-chairman of the board, one or more vice-presidents, a secretary, a treasurer, and such other officers and assistant officers as may be deemed necessary or desirable by the Board of Directors. Any number of offices may be held by the same person. In its discretion, the Board of Directors may choose not to fill any office for any period as it may deem advisable, except the offices of the president and secretary.
 
Section 2.
  
Election and Term of Office.
  The officers of the corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the first meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as conveniently may be. Vacancies may be filled or new offices created and filled at any meeting of the Board of Directors. Each officer shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors or until a successor is duly elected and qualified or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal as hereinafter provided.
 
Section 3.
  
Removal.
  Any officer or agent elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed by the Board of Directors whenever in its judgment the best interest of the corporation would be served thereby, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed.
 
Section 4.
  
Vacancies.
  A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or otherwise, may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term by a majority vote of the Directors then in office.
 
Section 5.
  
Compensation.
  Compensation of all officers shall be fixed by the Board of Directors, and no officer shall be prevented from receiving such compensation by virtue of the fact that he or she is also a Director of the corporation. The Board of Directors may authorize any officer, upon whom the power of appointing subordinate officers may have been conferred, to fix the compensation of such subordinate officers.
 
Section 6.
  
The Chief Executive Officer.
  The Chief Executive Officer, if any, in the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders; shall have general and active management of the business of the corporation; and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect. The Chief Executive Officer shall execute bonds, mortgages, and other contracts requiring a seal, under the seal of the corporation, except where required or permitted by law to be otherwise signed and executed and except where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors to some other officer or agent of the corporation. In the absence of the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chairman or another officer of the Corporation, as designated by the Board of Directors, shall have the powers of the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 7
.
The President and Vice-Presidents
. The President shall act in an executive capacity as shall be directed from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer, and shall have such powers and perform such other duties as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may determine from time to time, (which may include, without limitation, assisting the Chief Executive Officer in the operation and administration of the corporation's business and the supervision of its policies and affairs), with such limitations on such powers or performance of duties as either of the foregoing shall prescribe. The Vice-President, or if there shall be more than one, the Vice-Presidents in the order determined by the Board of Directors, shall, in the absence or disability of the President, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the President and shall perform such other duties and have such powers as the Board of Directors may, from time to time, determine or these By-Laws may prescribe.
 
Section 8.
  
The Chairman of the Board.
  The Chairman and/or the Co-Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and directors; and have such other duties as may be assigned to him or them from time to time by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 9.
  
The Secretary and Assistant Secretaries.
  The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of the stockholders and record all the proceedings of the meetings of the corporation an of the Board of Directors in a book to be kept for that purpose and shall perform like duties for the standing committees when required. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors; perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or Chief Executive Officer, or, if there is no Chief Executive Officer, the President, under whose supervision he or she shall be; shall have custody of the corporate seal of the corporation and the Secretary, or an Assistant Secretary, shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by his or her signature or by the signature of such Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the corporation and to attest the affixing by his or her signature. The Assistant Secretary, or if there be more than one, the Assistant Secretaries in the order determined by the Board of Directors, shall, in the absence or disability of the Secretary, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
 
Section 10.
  
The Treasurer and Assistant Treasurer.
  The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities; shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the corporation; shall deposit all monies and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements; and shall render to the Chief Executive Officer, or, if there is no Chief Executive Officer, the President and the Board of Directors, at its regular meetings, or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of the corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the corporation a bond (which shall be rendered every six years) in such sums and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office of treasurer and for the restoration to the corporation, in case of death, resignation, retirement, or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money, and other property of whatever kind in the possession or under the control of the Treasurer belonging to the corporation. The Assistant Treasurer, or if there shall be more than one, the Assistant Treasurers in the order determined by the Board of Directors, shall in the absence or disability of the Treasurer, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
 
Section 11.
  
Other Officers, Assistant Officers and Agents.
  Officers, assistant officers and agents, if any, other than those whose duties are provided for in these By-laws, shall have such authority and perform such duties as may from time to time be prescribed by resolution of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may, from time to time, authorize any officer to appoint and remove such subordinate officers and to prescribe the powers and duties thereof.
 
ARTICLE VI
INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS AND OTHERS
 
Section 1.
  The corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party, his or her heirs, executors or administrators, to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the corporation) by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director, officer, employee or other agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as director, officer, employee or other agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if he or she acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonable believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of
nolo
contendere
or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
 
Section 2.
  The corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party, his or her heirs, executors or administrators, to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit by or in the right of the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he or she is or was an officer of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as director or officer of another corporation, against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with defense or settlement of such action or suit if he or she acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the corporation and except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been
adjudged to be liable to the corporation unless and only to the extent that the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonable entitled to indemnification for such expenses which the court shall deem proper.
 
Section 3.
  To the extent that an officer of the corporation or person serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VI or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he or she shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection therewith.
 
Section 4.
  Any indemnification under Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VI (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the officer or person serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VI. Such determination shall be made (1) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (2) if such a quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable a quorum of disinterested Directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (3) by the stockholders.
 
Section 5.
  Expenses incurred in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding may be paid by the corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the officer or person serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified by the corporation as authorized in this Article VI.
 
Section 6.
  The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, the other subsections of this Article VI shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested Directors or otherwise, both as to action in his or her official capacity and as to action in other capacity while holding such office.
 
Section 7.
  The corporation shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was an officer of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation against any liability asserted against him or her and incurred by him or her in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her against such liability under the provisions of this Article VI.
 
Section 8.
  For purposes of this Article VI, references to the corporation shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors and officers so that any person who is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director or officer of another corporation shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Article VI with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he or she would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
 
Section 9.
  The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this section shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be an officer, employee or person serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
 
Section 10.
  This Article VI may be amended or repealed only by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the Voting Stock; provided that no such amendment or repeal shall adversely affect any right to indemnification for any act or omission of any person referred to in Section 1 and 2 of this Article VI which occurred or allegedly occurred prior to the effective date of such amendment or repeal.
 
Section 11.
  If in any action, suit or other proceeding or investigation, a Director of the corporation is held not liable for monetary damages because that Director is relieved of personal liability under Article NINTH of the Certificate of Incorporation or otherwise, the Director shall be deemed to have met the standards of conduct set forth above and to be entitled to indemnification as provided above.
 
ARTICLE VII
CERTIFICATES OF STOCK
 
Section 1.
  
Form.
  Every holder of stock in the corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate, signed by, or in the name of the corporation by, (1) the President or a Vice-President and (2) the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by him or her in the corporation. Where a certificate is signed (1) by a transfer agent or an assistant transfer agent other than the corporation or its employee or (2) by a registrar, other than the corporation or its employee, the signature of any such President, Vice-President, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer, Secretary, or Assistant Secretary may be facsimile. In case any officer or officers who have signed, or whose facsimile signature or signatures have been used on, any such certificate or certificates shall cease to be such officer or officers of the corporation whether because of death, resignation or otherwise before such certificate or certificates have been delivered by the corporation, such certificate or certificates may nevertheless be issued and delivered as though the person or persons who signed such certificate or certificates or whose facsimile signature or signatures have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer or officers of the corporation.
 
Section 2.
  
Lost Certificates.
  The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate or certificates to be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen, or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or certificates, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen, or destroyed certificate or certificates, or his or her legal representative, to give the corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
 
Section 3.
  
Fixing a Record Date.
  Except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may fix in advance a date, not more than sixty nor less than ten days preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders, or the date for the payment of any dividend, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect, or a date in connection with obtaining any consent, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting, and any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend, or to any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect to any such change, conversion, or exchange of capital stock, or to give such consent, and in such case such stockholders and only such stockholders as shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting and any adjournment thereof, or to receive payment of such dividend, or to receive such allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights, or to give such consent, as the case may be notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the corporation after any such record date fixed as aforesaid. If no record date is fixed, the time for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. The time for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
 
Section 4.
  
Registered Stockholders.
  The corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of the other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
ARTICLE VIII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
Section 1.
  
Dividends.
  Dividends upon the capital stock of the corporation, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, pursuant to law. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the capital stock, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Directors from time to time, in their absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the corporation, or for such other purpose as the Directors shall think in the best interest of the corporation, and the Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created.
 
Section 2.
  
Checks.
  All checks or demands for money and notes of the corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
 
Section 3.
  
Fiscal Year.
  The fiscal year of the corporation shall be the period ending December 31 of each year or as otherwise fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
 
Section 4.
  
Seal.
  The seal of the corporation shall be in the form of a circle and shall have inscribed thereon the name of the corporation, the year of its organization and the words Corporate Seal, Delaware. The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
 
Section 5.
  
Securities Owned By Corporation.
  Voting securities in any other corporation held by the corporation shall be voted by the Chief Executive Officer, or, if there is no Chief Executive Officer, the President, or the Treasurer or any Vice President, unless the Board of Directors specifically confers authority to vote with respect thereto, which may be general or confined to specific instances, upon some other person or officer. Any person authorized to vote securities shall have the power to appoint proxies, with general power of substitution.
 
Section 6.
  
Conflict of Interest.
  No contract or transaction between the corporation and one or more of its Directors or officers, or between the corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of its Directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the Director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the board of or committee thereof which authorized the contract or transaction, or solely because the votes of the Director or officer are counted for such purpose, provided that the material facts as to the relationship or interest of the Director or officer and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee and the Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested Directors, even though the disinterested Directors be less than a quorum or provided that the contract or transaction is otherwise authorized in accordance with the laws of Delaware. Common or interested Directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transactions.
 
ARTICLE IX
AMENDMENTS
 
Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws may be amended or repealed at any regular meeting of the stockholders or at any special meeting thereof duly called for that purpose by a majority vote of the shares represented and entitled to vote at such meeting provided that in the notice of such special meeting notice of such purpose shall be given. Subject to the laws of the State of Delaware, the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws, the Board of Directors may by majority vote of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present amend or repeal these By-Laws, or adopt such other By-Laws as in their judgment may be advisable for the regulation of the conduct of the affairs of the corporation.

EXHIBIT 10.1
Boston Scientific Corporation
One Boston Scientific Place
Natick, MA 01760-1537
September 6, 2011
Michael F. Mahoney
324 Rumstick Road
Barrington, RI 02806
Dear Michael:
On behalf of Boston Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific or the Company), we are very pleased to offer you employment on the terms and conditions set forth in this letter (the Letter). Your initial position of employment with Boston Scientific, commencing on September 21, 2011 or such other date as we may mutually agree (the Hire Date) will be as President, Boston Scientific, reporting to our Chief Executive Officer. In that position your duties and responsibilities shall be subject to the terms of the protocol attached hereto as
Appendix A
(the Protocol). At such time as we in good faith determine that the provisions of the Protocol are no longer applicable, you will assume the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific, reporting to our Board of Directors (Board). You will be appointed as a member of the Company's management Executive Committee at the earliest opportunity as is consistent with the Protocol, as determined by the Company in good faith, and in all events not later than the date you assume the position of President and Chief Executive Officer. We look forward to a productive and successful working relationship and to your acceptance of this offer of employment.
In connection with your employment, we have attached an Agreement Concerning Employment (the Employee Agreement) hereto as Exhibit A and our Code of Conduct which summarize certain of the terms and conditions of your employment and the obligations of the Company and you.
This Letter constitutes an irrevocable offer, which is effective immediately, and open for your acceptance until the Hire Date at 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time); provided, however, that this Letter shall be subject to the following conditions and shall immediately lapse prior to such time upon the earliest to occur of (i) your death or disability, (ii) your criminal or civil conviction, or a plea of nolo contendere or your commission of any act or omission that would constitute a felony, (iii) actions taken by you that would otherwise constitute a material breach of this Letter if you were deemed to have accepted this Letter, or (iv) your rejection of this Letter (each such condition under clauses (i) through (iv) being a Lapse Condition). It shall be a condition of this Letter that any acceptance by you of this Letter must be communicated in writing to the Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific and shall become effective upon receipt by the Company (to be delivered c/o the General Counsel).
The existence of this Letter and the matters contemplated hereby are to be treated in the strictest confidence and, except as may be required by applicable law, should not be disclosed by you to any person whatsoever (other than your representatives who need to know such information and have been apprised of, and agreed to, its confidential nature) without the Company's prior written consent;
provided
that
you are authorized to inform your current employer that you have been offered a position with the Company.
During the period commencing upon your receipt of this Letter and ending on the Hire Date you shall not be deemed an employee of the Company in any capacity and you shall not owe the Company or any of its affiliates any duty as an employee, shall not be required or requested to provide any services to the Company or its affiliates and shall not take any action which in any manner conflicts with or breaches any of your obligations or duty owed to any employer.
SIGN-ON BONUS
Boston Scientific will provide you with a lump-sum cash sign-on bonus of $1,500,000 (less applicable withholding taxes), which will be paid at the time of your first paycheck (the Initial Sign-On Bonus). Except as otherwise set forth in this Letter, you must be employed by Boston Scientific to receive the Initial Sign-On Bonus. If you should leave Boston Scientific voluntarily prior to the first anniversary of your start date, you will be required to pay back the Initial Sign-On Bonus within 30 days of your departure.
In addition, Boston Scientific will provide you with a lump sum cash sign-on bonus of $750,000 (less applicable taxes), within 30 days following your promotion to President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific (the CEO Sign-On Bonus). You must be employed by Boston Scientific to receive the CEO Sign-On Bonus. If you should leave Boston Scientific voluntarily prior to the first anniversary of your promotion to President and Chief Executive Officer, you will be required to pay back the CEO-Sign On Bonus within 30 days of your departure.
BASE SALARY
Your base salary will initially be $34,615.39, payable bi-weekly, which is $900,000 on an annualized basis. Your next base salary review will be in February 2012 during the normal annual executive review process. Thereafter, your performance and compensation will be reviewed in the normal course, on an annual basis starting with the annual review process.
PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN
The Performance Incentive Plan (PIP) provides employees with the opportunity for a variable financial incentive in recognition of individual and Company performance in a given year. You are eligible to participate in the annual PIP (as in effect from time to time) beginning this year and you will be eligible to receive a prorated bonus amount at the funded target for 2011, based on the Company's achievement of corporate performance goals. Per the current plan, your annual target incentive is 120% of base salary. Starting with the 2012 annual PIP, your actual award will be based on your achievement of individual goals and the Company's achievement of corporate performance goals, and may be at, less than or greater than such target amount, and will be paid out by March 15th of the year following the Boston Scientific performance year. The Boston Scientific performance year currently runs from January 1st through December 31st of each year. Under the current plan, you must be an active employee on the date of payment to receive any award pay-out under the plan.
DEFERRED BONUS PROGRAM
You will be eligible to participate in the Boston Scientific Corporation Deferred Bonus Plan (as in effect from time to time). This plan allows you to save additional tax-deferred money for your future by deferring a portion of your annual bonus awarded under the PIP. Specifically, under the plan, on an annual
basis, you can elect to defer up to 75% of the PIP bonus awarded to you starting with the 2012 or any subsequent year.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PROGRAM
New Hire Equity Grant
As part of this offer the Compensation Committee has determined that you be granted effective on the first trading day of the month following the Hire Date, an equity incentive in the form of Deferred Stock Units having a total value of $9,532,570 on the effective date of grant, in accordance with the form of award agreement attached hereto as Exhibit B (New Hire DSUs). The award will be made pursuant to the 2011 Boston Scientific Long Term Incentive Plan.
2012 Annual Equity Grant
As part of this offer the Compensation Committee has determined that during the normal annual executive review process you will be granted an equity award having a total value of $7,200,000 on the effective date of grant (2012 Annual Equity Grant). This award is inclusive of Boston Scientific annual equity to be granted to you under the 2012 Long Term Incentive Program. The total award will consist of $3,600,000 in Non-Qualified Stock Options (50% of total grant), $1,800,000 in Deferred Stock Units (DSUs) (25% of total grant) and $1,800,000 in Performance Share Units (PSUs) (25% of total grant). These awards will be made pursuant to the 2011 Boston Scientific Long Term Incentive Plan.  Our Long Term Incentive Plans are designed to share the rewards of the business with individuals who most significantly contribute to the achievement of the Company's strategic and operating goals. The effective date of grant will be the date on which 2012 long-term incentive awards are made to senior executives of Boston Scientific generally under the 2012 Long Term Incentive Program, which under our policies is generally on the date of approval or the first open trading day following the date of approval, should the date of grant be in a closed trading window. Thereafter, your performance and entitlement to long term incentive compensation grants will be reviewed in the normal course, on an annual basis starting with the annual review process in 2013.
DEFERRED STOCK UNITS
An award of Deferred Stock Units reflects Boston Scientific's commitment to grant to you a number of shares of Boston Scientific common stock (less applicable tax and other withholdings), to be issued to you in five equal annual increments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of the grant.  The number of DSUs to be awarded will be calculated using the Fair Market Value (closing price) of Boston Scientific common stock on the effective date of grant.
 
This award is also subject to all provisions of the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Stock Unit Agreement.  In accordance with the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Stock Unit Agreement, and your Change in Control Agreement (described below), as applicable, upon your Retirement, Disability, death or a Change in Control of Boston Scientific (as those terms are defined in the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan or Change in Control Agreement, as applicable), we will issue to you or your beneficiary (as the case may be), any shares of Boston Scientific stock to be awarded to you under your DSU grants described in this offer that remain subject to eligibility conditions. In the event of any inconsistency between this section and the section captioned New Hire Equity Grant with respect to the New Hire DSUs, the section captioned New Hire Equity Grant will control.
NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS
 
The option grant will provide you with the opportunity to purchase shares of Boston Scientific common
stock.  The number of stock options will be calculated using a Black Scholes calculation of the value of the options on the effective date of grant.  The exercise price will be equal to the Fair Market Value (closing price) of Boston Scientific common stock on the effective date of grant. The option grant will vest in four equal annual installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant and will expire on the 10
th
anniversary of the grant date.  The option grant will be subject to the provisions of the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan and Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement.  In accordance with the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan, Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement and your Change in Control Agreement, as applicable, any unvested stock options will accelerate upon your Retirement, Disability, death or a Change in Control of Boston Scientific (as those terms are defined in the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan or Change in Control Agreement, as applicable) and in those scenarios would remain exercisable until the expiration of the stated term of the stock option.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PROGRAM (PSP) AWARD
 
The PSP award reflects Boston Scientific's commitment to grant to you a number of shares of Boston Scientific common stock (less applicable tax and other withholdings), subject to certain performance, eligibility and other conditions, and will fully vest at the end of a three year period beginning on the effective date of the grant.  The target number of Performance Share Units (PSU) to be awarded to you will be calculated using the Fair Market Value (closing price) of Boston Scientific common stock on the effective date of grant. The actual number of shares delivered to you at the end of the vesting period will be based on Boston Scientific's stock performance over the three year period as compared to the S&P HealthCare Index and in accordance therewith may be earned at less than, at or greater than the target number of shares awarded. This award is also subject to all provisions of the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan, the Performance Share Program and the Performance Share Unit Award Agreement.  In accordance with the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan, Performance Share Program, Performance Share Unit Award Agreement and your Change in Control Agreement, as applicable, upon your Retirement, Disability, or death (as those terms are defined in the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan, Performance Share Program and Change in Control Agreement, as applicable), we will issue to you or your beneficiary (as the case may be), the number of shares of Boston Scientific stock in accordance with the terms set forth in the Performance Share Program and the Change in Control Agreement, as applicable.
BENEFITS
Enclosed is descriptive literature regarding Boston Scientific's current benefit programs.  You should review this information prior to your start date so you are prepared to enroll within your first 31 days of employment.  Please understand that the Company reserves the right to unilaterally amend or terminate any of these programs, or to require or change employee premium contributions toward any benefits.
EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN
As a member of the Executive Committee, you will be eligible to participate in the Boston Scientific Executive Retirement Plan in accordance with its terms. As a member of the Executive Committee, if you Retire from Boston Scientific (as that term is defined in our Executive Retirement Plan), you may be eligible to receive certain benefits provided in that plan, including a lump sum payment equal to 2.5 months of base salary times your years of service, subject to a maximum benefit of 36 months. A copy of Boston Scientific's Executive Retirement Plan is attached for your information.
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CHANGE IN CONTROL AND INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENTS
Boston Scientific provides Change in Control and indemnification agreements to its key executives. In
general, the Change in Control agreement entitles you as a member of our Executive Committee to a lump sum payment of three times your base salary and assumed on-plan incentive bonus if either your employment is terminated (other than for cause) or if your duties are diminished following a change in control of Boston Scientific. Indemnification by Boston Scientific is also extended to key executives for liability arising in the proper performance of one's responsibilities as an executive officer of Boston Scientific. A form of each agreement has been provided to you and shall be executed and effective on your first day of employment.
AIRCRAFT
Boston Scientific will provide you with reasonable and customary personal use of corporate-owned aircraft up to $100,000 per calendar year in aggregate incremental cost to the Company, including standard annual vacations or other personal use as agreed upon, all in accordance with the Company's policies in effect from time to time. All personal use of aircraft will result in imputed income based on U.S. Department of Transportation SIFL rates as required by law, and you will not be reimbursed for any taxes resulting from such imputed income.
RELOCATION
With this offer, you will be eligible for the Tier 5, Executive Officer Relocation Policy (for which purpose, all senior management approvals thereunder have been granted). In addition, for so long as you are employed by Boston Scientific, and to the extent that you have not been promoted to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer after the Hire Date, Boston Scientific will provide you with temporary housing in the Boston Area for up to eighteen months following the Hire Date.
SEVERANCE RELATED TO POSITION
If (x) prior to a Change in Control (as defined in the Change in Control Agreement) your employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company (except for cause (as defined in Section 4a.(4)(C) of the Company's 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan), or conduct constituting a material act of misconduct in connection with the performance of your duties which upon written notice to you has not been cured within seven (7) days thereafter (to the extent reasonably curable), or as a result of your death or disability) before you have been appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, or (y) prior to a Change in Control, you terminate your employment for Good Reason (as defined below): (a) your New Hire DSU's will immediately vest 100% and be delivered to you minus the shares withheld to cover your applicable taxes;
provided that
, if the New Hire DSUs had not yet then been granted to you, you will receive a lump sum cash payment in the amount of $9,532,570, less applicable withholding taxes); (b) your 2012 Annual Equity Grant will vest in the following manner: (1) Non-Qualified Stock Options will immediately vest 100% and will be exercisable for the remaining term of the grant, (2) DSU's will immediately vest 100% and be delivered to you minus the shares to cover your applicable taxes, and (3) in the event that the triggering event occurs (i) prior to the end of the first performance period, then the PSUs will be immediately forfeited and you will be entitled to receive a cash payment of $900,000, representing 50% of the value of PSU grant date value or (ii) after the end of the first performance period, the PSU's will vest pro-rata based on the results of the applicable performance period(s); (c) you will be entitled to receive a lump sum cash severance payment in an amount equal to two (2) times the sum of your then-prevailing annual base salary plus your target bonus; and (d) to the extent unpaid, you will be paid your Initial Sign-On Bonus.
If your employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company (except for cause as defined in the paragraph immediately above, conduct constituting a material act of misconduct in connection with the
performance of your duties which upon written notice to you has not been cured within seven (7) days thereafter (to the extent reasonably curable), or as a result of your death or disability) at any time after your appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer, you will be subject to the Company's severance policies applicable to its senior executive team members, except that your New Hire DSU's to the extent unvested will immediately vest 100% and be delivered to you minus the shares withheld to cover your applicable taxes.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change in Control after the Hire Date, you shall be entitled only to the payments and benefits provided for under your Change in Control Agreement in the event of your termination by the Company or your resignation for good reason as provided for under such agreement, and the Company shall not have any obligation to make any of the payments provided for in this section.
For purposes of this Letter:
Good Reason shall mean (i) the failure of the Company to appoint you as President and Chief Executive Officer on or before March 21, 2013 or (ii) the appointment by the Company of any individual to the position of Chief Executive Officer on or before March 21, 2013 on other than an interim basis.
To the extent that either (i) the Company is not able to ensure that the terms of this Letter remain outstanding prior to your acceptance, (ii) the Company determines that you are not able to commence employment as of the Hire Date, (iii) the Company determines to cease your active employment after you have commenced employment, or (iv) you are otherwise precluded from commencing such employment, in each case for any reason other than a Lapse Condition and conditioned on your compliance with the terms of this Letter and the Employee Agreement and the absence of conduct that would constitute cause hereunder, the Company shall (i) continue to pay you the base salary and PIP (or cash equivalent thereof) provided for in this Letter, (ii) continue to provide you with all benefits provided for in this Letter to the extent while otherwise actively employed you would be eligible for such benefit coverage and to the extent otherwise reasonably practicable (provided that the failure to provide for such benefit coverage or the abridgement of such benefit coverage is not materially adverse to you), and (iii) grant to you and continue all incentive awards to the extent otherwise reasonably practicable (provided that the failure to grant such awards or any abridgement of such awards is not materially adverse to you), and otherwise perform the Company's obligations to you under this Letter as if you were employed and fully engaged in your duties, subject to the Company's authority to terminate this Letter at any time thereafter treating you as though you were employed and immediately terminated by the Company without cause (other than in the case of death or disability) under this Severance Related to Position section.
All payments, benefits and amounts due you under this section shall be conditioned upon your execution and delivery of a general release in favor of Boston Scientific, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C. All rights and obligations under this section shall inure to the benefit of your heirs, executors and administrators.
LEGAL CONTRACT WORK
You will be provided reimbursement up to $90,000 for any legal work pertaining to your employment contract.
TAX WITHHOLDING
All amounts of compensation hereunder shall be subject to withholding for applicable income and
employment taxes and all Boston Scientific polices related to withholding and deductions.
BACKGROUND VERIFICATION AND WORK AUTHORIZATION
A background verification establishing that you have not been convicted of, or plead guilty or nolo contendere with respect to, any felony, been the subject of an SEC order or action barring you from serving as the CEO of a public company or been the subject of an FDA disbarment action (collectively, a Disqualifying Event) shall be a condition to this letter. To comply with the Immigration Reform Control Act of 1986, the Company is required to determine your eligibility for work in the United States.  Therefore, on your first day of employment you will be required to provide documentation to establish your identity and work authorization status.
The Executive represents and warrants that he has not been, and is not currently, the subject of any Disqualifying Event.
EMPLOYMENT AT WILL
Upon acceptance of this offer you will remain an "at will" employee of Boston Scientific. This means that you will be free to resign at any time. Likewise, Boston Scientific will have the right to terminate your employment at any time with or without reason or notice. In each such case, such resignation or termination shall be subject to the terms of this Letter. Acceptance of this offer acknowledges your understanding and acceptance of the "at will" nature of your employment.
PRIOR EMPLOYMENT
By acceptance of this offer, you agree that (1) no proprietary or confidential information, trade secret, copyright or any other intellectual property information belonging to any of your previous employers will be disclosed or used by you during the period of your employment with Boston Scientific, and that no such information in any tangible or electronic form of documents, memoranda, software, drawings, etc. will be retained by you or brought with you to Boston Scientific other than those items explicitly permitted by your previous employers (if any), (2) you have brought to Boston Scientific's attention and provided it with copies of or accurate descriptions of all agreements, covenants or other restrictions, whether in your possession or with respect to which you should have reasonably been aware (taking into account your position and tenure) which may adversely impact your future employment at Boston Scientific under this Letter including, without limitation, non-disclosure, non-competition, non-solicitation, invention assignment agreements or agreements containing future work restrictions, and (3) you will cooperate fully with Boston Scientific and comply with any and all procedures or measures implemented, or given effect, by Boston Scientific for purposes of preventing any unauthorized disclosure or use by you of any proprietary or confidential information belonging to any of your previous employers or otherwise violating any legally enforceable provision of any agreements with any of your prior employers and relating to your post-termination activities. Sub-clause (2) above shall apply only to any such agreement, covenant or restriction referenced thereunder that is not otherwise provided to Boston Scientific and that results in your being bound by court order or settlement to restrictions on your employment with Boston Scientific that (x) are of longer duration or (y) are of a broader scope or other additional material adverse nature than the restrictions reasonably associated with (A) the terms of those agreements, covenants and restrictions that you have brought to Boston Scientific's attention referenced in sub-clause (2) above or (B) any alleged breach of fiduciary, contractual or other statutory obligation owing to your previous employers.
INDEMNIFICATION
In addition to your rights under the Indemnification Agreement identified above, Boston Scientific has agreed to indemnify you as provided for in Annex A.
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC REPRESENTATIONS
Boston Scientific represents and warrants to you, as of the date hereof, that; (1) the execution, delivery and performance of this Letter by Boston Scientific has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, (2) the officer signing this Letter on behalf of Boston Scientific is duly authorized to do so, and (3) upon the execution and delivery of this irrevocable Letter, and until this Letter lapses according to its terms, this Letter is a valid and binding obligation of Boston Scientific enforceable against it in accordance with its terms.
MISCELLANEOUS
409A Matters
References under this offer to your termination of employment shall be deemed to refer to the date upon which you have experienced a separation from service within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). To the extent any reimbursements or in-kind benefits due to you under this offer constitute deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Code, any such reimbursements or in-kind benefits shall be paid to you in a manner consistent with Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-3(i)(1)(iv).
Notwithstanding any provisions of this offer to the contrary, if you are a specified employee (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by Boston Scientific) and you experience a separation from service (including, if applicable, in respect of your position as a member of the Board) after the Hire Date and if any portion of the payments or benefits to be received by you upon such a separation from service would be considered deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Code, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to this offer during the six-month period immediately following your separation from service and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this offer during the six-month period immediately following your separation from service shall instead be paid or made available on the earlier of (i) the first business day of the seventh month following the date of your separation from service or (ii) your death.  
Terms, Governing Law and Jurisdiction
You and the Company acknowledge that this offer (together with any attachments hereto and agreements referenced herein) constitutes the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any other prior agreement or other understanding, whether oral or written, express or implied, between you and the Company concerning, related to or otherwise in connection with, the subject matter hereof and that, following the Hire Date, no such prior agreement or understanding shall be of any further force or effect.  To the extent the terms of this offer are inconsistent with any plan, program, practice or other agreement of the Company and applicable to you, and as in effect from time to time, the terms of this offer shall control unless specifically provided otherwise in writing by reference to this offer and signed by you and Company.
This offer shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without regard to its principles of conflicts of laws.
Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably consents and submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in Suffolk County, Massachusetts in connection with any proceeding arising out of or relating to this offer or the transactions contemplated hereby and waives any objection to venue in Suffolk County, Massachusetts. In addition, each of the parties hereto hereby waives trial by jury in connection with any claim or proceeding arising out of or relating to this offer or the transactions contemplated hereby.
ACCEPTANCE
This offer letter is contingent upon the following:
 An acceptance no later than September 21, 2011;
 Your signing of the Agreement Concerning Employment.
We believe this opportunity to be a mutually-rewarding one and look forward to your contributions and continued success with Boston Scientific.
Sincerely,
Pete M. Nicholas
Chairman of the Board
Agreed to and Accepted by: ________________________________    Date: _____________
Enclosures
Agreement Concerning Employment (Exhibit A)
New Hire DSU Award (Exhibit B)
Form of Release of Claims (Exhibit C)
The Boston Scientific Corporation Executive Retirement Plan
Current Benefit Plan Literature
Annex A
In reliance on your agreements and representations in the section captioned Prior Employment (the Covered Representations), the Company agrees that (a) if you are made a party, or are threatened to be made a party, to any threatened or actual action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative, appellate or other action, suit or proceeding (a Proceeding) by Johnson & Johnson or its affiliates (the Prior Employer) or (b) if any claim, demand, request, dispute, controversy, threat, discovery request or request for testimony or information (a Claim) is made, or threatened to be made, by the Prior Employer, and such Proceeding or Claim results in whole or in part from your alleged breach of any fiduciary, contractual, or other statutory obligation to the Prior Employer arising out of or resulting from (i) discussions related to, or the negotiation, execution or acceptance of, this Letter or (ii) your accepting the position as President, being employed by the Company or performing the duties contemplated under this Letter, then you shall promptly be indemnified and held harmless by the Company to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law against any and all costs, expenses, damages, liabilities and losses (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees, judgments, interest, expense of investigation, penalties, fines, excise taxes or tax penalties, amounts paid or to be paid in settlement or any expenses, including attorneys' fees, incurred by you to enforce your rights under this
Annex A
).
For the avoidance of doubt, such indemnification and payment shall be provided or paid to you (i) so long as the Company' offer under the Letter has not lapsed without acceptance and (ii) after such acceptance, even if your employment at the Company does not commence as of the Hire Date due to such Proceeding or Claim. All such rights and obligations under this
Annex A
shall inure to the benefit of your heirs, executors and administrators.
The Company shall promptly advance to you all costs and expenses incurred by you in connection with any such Proceeding or Claim after receiving written notice requesting such an advance. The indemnification rights set forth in this
Annex A
shall be in addition to (and shall not restrict) any indemnification provisions otherwise applicable to you. You represent that there is no such Proceeding or Claim now actually pending against you which would give rise to the application of these indemnification rights.
You agree that the Company may defend you through lawyers of the Company's choosing; however, in the event that you and the Company both reasonably determine that a conflict of interest prevents the lawyers selected by the Company from representing you against a claim where the Company has agreed to provide your defense, the Company will reimburse (or advance, as provided above) the attorneys' fees you have or will incur by having to engage separate lawyers to defend yourself against that claim. In the event separate counsel must be retained, you agree that the Company shall have the right to approve your choice of counsel, such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, and that compensation of the separate attorneys shall be for services necessary, at rates which are reasonable and competitive within the locale in which said claim is asserted.
The foregoing indemnification obligations of the Company under this
Annex A
shall cease to apply (effective prospectively only, and not in respect of any fees or costs incurred or obligations under any judgment or settlement (whether or not final) entered into prior to such date) in the event of your willful misconduct or the date of your initial breach of the Covered Representations.
As a condition of indemnification under this
Annex A
, (i) you shall give Boston Scientific prompt notice of any Claim, (ii) Boston Scientific shall be given the full opportunity to assume the defense of any such Claim, and (iii) you shall cooperate in good faith in defending any Claim.
The Company's obligations under this
Annex A
shall survive the termination of your employment
with Boston Scientific or any termination of this Agreement by the Company before you commence employment. The Company's obligations under this Annex A shall be the sole and exclusive indemnification provisions and procedures relating to any Claim brought by the Prior Employer.
Boston Scientific Corporation
One Boston Scientific Place
Natick, MA 01760-1537
September 13, 2011
Michael F. Mahoney
324 Rumstick Road
Barrington, RI 02806
Dear Michael:
Reference is hereby made to that certain offer letter (the Offer Letter) dated September 6, 2011 delivered to you by Boston Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific or the Company). This letter agreement supplements the Offer Letter as specifically provided below.
Effective as of the date hereof, (A) the Hire Date (as used in the Offer Letter) shall mean October 17, 2011 or such other date as the Company and you may mutually agree, (B) references to Protocol in the Offer Letter shall mean that certain Conflicting Products Protocol Agreement between you and the Company (as may be in effect from time to time), (C) the Company agrees to pay you an additional supplementary cash payment of $69,230.77 (less applicable withholding taxes), which will be paid at the time of your first paycheck, subject to your continued employment with Boston Scientific at such time, (D) the Company agrees that, at such time when you are paid any prorated bonus amount to which you are entitled under the Offer Letter in respect of the Company's 2011 Performance Incentive Plan (such amount, Paid 2011 Prorated Bonus Amount), you will receive an additional cash payment equal to the difference between (x) the prorated bonus amount to which you would have been entitled under the Offer Letter in respect of the Company's 2011 Performance Incentive Plan if your Hire Date were September 21, 2011 (and not October 17, 2011), and (y) the Paid 2011 Prorated Bonus Amount, and (E) you agree that no payments, benefits or amounts shall be due you pursuant to the first of two clauses (ii) of the second-to-last paragraph under the Severance Related to Position section of the Offer Letter as a result of the change to the Hire Date provided for in clause (A) herein.
Except as specifically amended hereby, the Offer Letter is and remains unmodified and in full force and effect.
Sincerely,
Pete M. Nicholas
Chairman of the Board
Agreed to and Accepted by: ________________________________    Date: _____________
Conflicting Products Protocol Agreement
Company shall notify Johnson & Johnson in advance in writing. Johnson & Johnson shall respond in writing within two weeks of receipt of such notice (the Notice Period) as to whether it objects to any such proposed change to Annex A. Executive shall not render services with respect to such additional products or business units until after the expiration of the Notice Period. The limitations set forth in this Section 5 shall be referred to as the Section (5) Restrictions.
As used herein, Protocol Period shall mean the period commencing on the Executive's employment date and continuing for so long as the Executive remains employed by the Company, but in any case not to extend past November 1, 2012.
Notices pursuant to this Section 5 shall be delivered via U.S. mail and either facsimile or e-mail to Anne O. Martinson, Esq., Senior Counsel, Law Department, Johnson & Johnson, One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick, NJ 08933, with a copy to Glenn A. Clark, Esq. and Edwin F. Chociey, Jr., Esq., Riker, Danzig, Scherer, Hyland & Perretti LLP, Headquarters Plaza, One Speedwell Avenue, Morristown, NJ 07962.
Boston Scientific Corporation
By:______________________
Executive
By:_______________________
Dated: September __, 2011
Annex A Businesses
Products Associated with the following business operations:

EXHIBIT 10.2
September 06, 2011
Mr. William Hank Kucheman
Four Battery Wharf
Residence #4305
Boston, MA 02109
Dear Hank:
Based on your past accomplishments with Boston Scientific, we are very pleased to offer you the position of Chief Executive Officer, on an interim basis, reporting directly to the Board of Directors, effective upon the retirement of J. Raymond Elliott as President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific (Effective Date). As part of this offer, we are recommending your nomination (subject to Board approval) to Boston Scientific's Board of Directors. We also look forward to your continued contributions as a member of Boston Scientific's Executive Committee. The terms and conditions of your offer, commencing as of the Effective Date, are as follows.
TERM OF APPOINTMEN
T
Your appointment as Chief Executive Officer is on an interim basis. You will serve in this capacity (unless precluded by death or disability) until such time as Michael F. Mahoney is appointed as Chief Executive Officer, or your successor is otherwise duly elected and qualified by the Board of Directors, or until your earlier resignation or removal.
BASE SALARY
Your base salary will be $34,615.39, currently payable bi-weekly, equivalent to $900,000 on an annualized basis. Your performance and compensation will be reviewed on an annual basis.
PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN
The Boston Scientific performance year currently runs from January 1st through December 31st of each year. The Performance Incentive Plan (PIP) provides employees with the opportunity for a variable financial incentive in recognition of performance in a given year. Your annual target incentive will be increased to 120% of base salary. Your actual award will be based on your achievement of individual goals and the Company's achievement of corporate performance goals. Under the current Plan, you must be an active employee on the date of payment to receive any award pay-out under the Plan.
EXECUTIVE ALLOWANCE PLAN
As a member of the Executive Committee, you continue to be eligible to participate in the Boston Scientific Executive Allowance Plan. Under this Plan, you will receive $25,000 annually in lieu of certain other perquisites. This payment is subject to applicable withholdings and is typically payable in two equal installments of $12,500 each in the last pay periods of the months of June and December (A copy of Boston Scientific's Executive Allowance Plan is enclosed for your review.)
EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN
As a member of the Executive Committee, you will continue to be eligible for benefits under the Boston Scientific Executive Retirement Plan. As a member of the Executive Committee, if you Retire from
Boston Scientific (as that term is defined in our Executive Retirement Plan), you may be eligible to receive certain benefits provided in that Plan, including a lump sum payment equal to 2.5 months of base salary times your years of service, subject to a maximum benefit of 36 months. A copy of Boston Scientific's Executive Retirement Plan is attached for your information.
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CHANGE IN CONTROL AND INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENTS
Your current Change in Control and indemnification agreements will continue to apply. In general, the Change in Control agreement entitles you as a member of our Executive Committee to a lump sum payment of three times your base salary and assumed on-plan incentive bonus if either your employment is terminated (other than for cause) or if your duties are diminished following a change in control of Boston Scientific. Indemnification by Boston Scientific is also extended to key executives for liability arising in the proper performance of one's responsibilities as an executive officer of Boston Scientific. A form of each agreement will be provided to you.
2012 ANNUAL EQUITY GRANT
As part of this offer the Compensation Committee has determined that during the normal annual executive review process you will be granted an equity award having a total value of $3,000,000 on the effective date of grant (2012 Annual Equity Grant). This award is inclusive of Boston
Scientific annual equity to be granted to you under the 2012 Long Term Incentive Program. The total award will consist of $1,500,000 in Non-Qualified Stock Options (50% of total grant), $750,000 in Deferred Stock Units (DSUs) (25% of total grant) and $750,000 in Performance Share Units (PSUs) (25% of total grant). These awards will be made pursuant to the 2011 Boston Scientific Long Term Incentive Plan and are expected to be provided with the standard vesting provisions, except that the proposed grants would not have a one-year service requirement in order to vest upon your Retirement (as defined in the 2011 Long Term Incentive Program.)  Our Long Term Incentive Plans are designed to share the rewards of the business with individuals who most significantly contribute to the achievement of the Company's strategic and operating goals. The effective date of grant will be the date on which 2012 long-term incentive awards are made to senior executives of Boston Scientific generally under the 2012 Long Term Incentive Program, which under our policies is generally on the date of approval or the first open trading day following the date of approval, should the date of grant be in a closed trading window.
DEFERRED STOCK UNITS
An award of Deferred Stock Units reflects Boston Scientific's commitment to grant to you a number of shares of Boston Scientific common stock (less applicable tax and other withholdings), to be issued to you in five equal annual increments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of the grant.  The number of DSUs to be awarded will be calculated using the Fair Market Value (closing price) of Boston Scientific common stock on the effective date of grant.
 
This award is also subject to all provisions of the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Stock Unit Agreement and is expected to be provided with the standard vesting provisions, except that the proposed grants would not have a one year service requirement in order to vest upon your Retirement (as defined in the 2011 Long Term Incentive Program).  In accordance with the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Stock Unit Agreement and your Change in Control Agreement, as applicable, upon your Retirement, Disability, death or a Change in Control of Boston Scientific (as those terms are defined in the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan or Change in Control Agreement, as applicable), we will issue to you or your beneficiary (as the case may be), any shares of Boston Scientific stock to be awarded to you under your DSU grants described in this offer that remain subject to eligibility conditions.
NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS
 
The option grant will provide you with the opportunity to purchase shares of Boston Scientific common
stock.  The number of stock options will be calculated using a Black Scholes calculation of the value of the options on the effective date of grant.  The exercise price will be equal to the Fair Market Value (closing price) of Boston Scientific common stock on the effective date of grant. The option grant will vest in four equal annual installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant and will expire on the 10
th
anniversary of the grant date.  The option grant will be subject to the provisions of the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan and Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement and is expected to be provided with the standard vesting provisions, except that the proposed grants would not have a one year service requirement in order to vest upon your Retirement (as defined in the 2011 Long Term Incentive Program).  In accordance with the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan, Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement and your Change in Control Agreement, as applicable, any unvested stock options will accelerate upon your Retirement, Disability, death or a Change in Control of Boston Scientific (as those terms are defined in the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan or Change in Control Agreement, as applicable) and in those scenarios would remain exercisable until the expiration of the stated term of the stock option.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PROGRAM (PSP) AWARD
 
The PSP award reflects Boston Scientific's commitment to grant to you a number of shares of Boston Scientific common stock (less applicable tax and other withholdings), subject to certain performance, eligibility and other conditions, and will fully vest at the end of a three year period beginning on the effective date of the grant.  The target number of Performance Share Units (PSU) to be awarded to you will be calculated using the Fair Market Value (closing price) of Boston Scientific common stock on the effective date of grant. The actual number of shares delivered to you at the end of the vesting period will be based on Boston Scientific's stock performance over the three year period as compared to the S&P HealthCare Index and in accordance therewith may be earned at less than, at or greater than the target number of shares awarded. This award is also subject to all provisions of the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan, the Performance Share Program and the Performance Share Unit Award Agreement, and are expected to be provided with the standard vesting provisions, except that the proposed grants would not have a one year service requirement in order to vest upon your Retirement (as defined in the 2011 Long Term Incentive Program).  In accordance with the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan, Performance Share Program, Performance Share Unit Award Agreement and your Change in Control Agreement, as applicable, upon your Retirement, Disability, or death (as those terms are defined in the 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan, Performance Share Program and Change in Control Agreement, as applicable), we will issue to you or your beneficiary (as the case may be), the number of shares of Boston Scientific stock in accordance with the terms set forth in the Performance Share Program and the Change in Control Agreement, as applicable.
AIRCRAFT
Boston Scientific will provide you with reasonable and customary personal use of corporate-owned aircraft up to $100,000 per calendar year in aggregate incremental cost to the Company, including standard annual vacations or other personal use as agreed upon, all in accordance with the Company's policies in effect from time to time. All personal use of aircraft will result in imputed income based on U.S. Department of Transportation SIFL rates as required by law, and you will not be reimbursed for any taxes resulting from such imputed income.
EMPLOYMENT AT WILL
Upon acceptance of this offer you will remain an "at will" employee of Boston Scientific. This means that you will be free to resign at any time. Likewise, Boston Scientific will have the right to terminate your employment at any time with or without reason or notice. Acceptance of this offer acknowledges your understanding and acceptance of the "at will" nature of your employment.
ACCEPTANCE
This offer letter is contingent upon the following:
 An acceptance date of no later than September 13, 2011;
 Your immediate signing of the 2011 Agreement Concerning Employment.
Hank, we believe this opportunity to be a mutually-rewarding one and look forward to your contributions and continued success with Boston Scientific.
Sincerely,
Pete M. Nicholas
Chairman of the Board
Agreed to and Accepted by: ________________________________    Date: _____________
William Hank Kucheman
Enclosures
Agreement Concerning Employment
Boston Scientific Executive Allowance Plan
The Boston Scientific Corporation Executive Retirement Plan

EXHIBIT 10.3
September 16, 2011
J. Raymond Elliott
776 Boylston Street
East 11 E
Boston, MA 02199
Dear Ray:
We are delighted that you have agreed to remain employed in the role of Senior Advisor after your resignation as President and CEO of Boston Scientific. As Senior Advisor, it is expected that you will work on transition issues with Hank Kucheman and Mike Mahoney, and also continue to play a vital role in our Leadership Academy and Close the Gap program. The terms and conditions of your offer, commencing as of October 17, 2011,
are as follows.
TERM OF APPOINTMEN
T
Your appointment as Senior Advisor will run from October 17, 2011 through December 31, 2011, at which time you will no longer be an employee of Boston Scientific. In accordance with your resignation as President and CEO, effective October 17, 2011, you will no longer be a member of the Executive Committee of Boston Scientific. You will remain a member of the Company's Board of Directors, subject to Board approval (as defined below).
BASE SALARY AND BENEFITS
Your base salary will be $856,000 on an annualized basis, and is currently payable bi-weekly. Your position as Senior Advisor is for a minimum of 20 hours per week, and is benefits eligible.
PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN
Subject to approval by the Board of Directors and its applicable committees (the Board), you will be deemed eligible for a payment under the 2011 Performance Incentive Plan (PIP) at your target rate of 100% of base salary (prorated for your salary as Senior Advisor between October 17 and December 31, 2011). Your actual award will be based on your achievement of individual goals and the Company's achievement of corporate performance goals. Per your previous election, the PIP shall be paid in the form of Deferred Stock Units under the Company's 2003 Long Term Incentive Program, valued at the closing price of our common stock on the date on which your bonus is determined by the Compensation Committee, and will be fully vested upon issuance and payable on the fourth anniversary of issuance.
AIRCRAFT
During your employment as Senior Advisor, Boston Scientific will provide you with reasonable and customary personal use of corporate-owned aircraft, subject to availability, in accordance with the Company's policies in effect from time to time. All personal use of aircraft will result in imputed income based on U.S. Department of Transportation SIFL rates as required by law, and you will not be reimbursed for any taxes resulting from such imputed income.
EMPLOYMENT AT WILL
Upon acceptance of this offer you will remain an "at will" employee of Boston Scientific. This means that you will be free to resign at any time. Likewise, Boston Scientific will have the right to terminate your employment at any time with or without reason or notice. Acceptance of this offer acknowledges your understanding and acceptance of the "at will" nature of your employment.
ACCEPTANCE
This offer letter is contingent upon an acceptance date of no later than September 19, 2011;
Ray, we are fortunate that you have agreed to assist us with this transition and to provide other valuable services during this time.
Sincerely,
Pete M. Nicholas
Chairman of the Board
Agreed to and Accepted by: ________________________________    Date: _____________
J. Raymond Elliott

BOSTON SCIENTIFIC NAMES MICHAEL F. MAHONEY AS COMPANY PRESIDENT,
ANNOUNCES CEO TRANSITION PLAN
Mahoney Has Served as Worldwide Chairman,
Medical Device and Diagnostics Group, Johnson & Johnson
William H. (Hank) Kucheman to be Promoted to Interim Chief Executive Officer
Ray Elliott to Retire at Year-End, Will Assist Transition and Remain Member of the Board
Natick, MA (September 13, 2011)  Attracting one of med-techs most inspiring leaders, Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) has named Michael Mahoney, 46, as President of the Company, effective October 17, 2011. Mahoney, Worldwide Chairman of the Medical Device and Diagnostics Group for Johnson & Johnson, is expected to become Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Boston Scientific on November 1, 2012. The transition period is being implemented to accommodate Mahoneys post-employment obligations to Johnson & Johnson, which both Boston Scientific and Johnson & Johnson have agreed is appropriate. Ray Elliott, who announced last May that he would step down as President and CEO, will do so on October 17, 2011. At that time, Hank Kucheman, currently the Executive Vice President and Group President of the Cardiology, Rhythm and Vascular (CRV) Group, Boston Scientifics largest business, will be promoted to serve as interim CEO until Mahoney assumes the role. As President, Mahoney will report to Kucheman. In connection with his promotion to CEO, Kucheman will be appointed to the Companys Board of Directors. Elliott will be available to assist Kucheman and Mahoney through the end of the year, at which time he will retire, and remain active on the Companys Board of Directors.
Mahoney has more than twenty-two years of healthcare experience in medical devices, capital equipment and healthcare IT service businesses with best-in-class companies. He is known as a driven leader with a proven ability to build strong teams that are passionate about winning. As Worldwide Chairman, Medical Devices and Diagnostics for Johnson & Johnson, Mahoney has been responsible for leading the largest medical device business in the industry. Prior to assuming this position in January, 2011, Mahoney served as Worldwide Company Group Chairman of the DePuy franchise, a leading global orthopedics and neuro-sciences business. In this role, which he held from 2007 through 2010, Mahoney drove a successful growth strategy via product innovation, multiple acquisitions, and international expansion, particularly in China and India. From 2001 to 2006, Mahoney served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Global Healthcare Exchange (GHX), a leading provider of supply chain solutions and services that bring together hospitals, manufacturers, distributors and GPOs. Mahoney began his career at General Electric Medical Systems, where he spent twelve years successfully leading various GE Medical Systems business units in diagnostic imaging, Cardiology, and Healthcare Information technology. Mahoney earned a Finance degree from the University of Iowa and an M.B.A. from Wake Forest University.
Mike is a dynamic, seasoned leader and we enthusiastically welcome him into the Boston Scientific family, stated Pete Nicholas, Chairman of the Board and Co-Founder, Boston Scientific. He is intensely passionate
about innovation and people, and creates and encourages a team environment that results in superior performance. This, combined with Mikes significant international experience made him the best choice for this critical role, continued Nicholas.
As President, Mahoneys initial responsibilities will focus on the oversight of Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) and Endoscopy (GI and Pulmonary), as well as numerous corporate functions. On August 1, 2012, Mahoney will assume responsibility for Neuromodulation.
I have great respect for Boston Scientific and its position as a market-leading, global Fortune 500 healthcare company, stated Mahoney. My experiences leading complex businesses, developing international markets and driving operational excellence for other world-class companies will serve me well in my new role. I am making a long-term commitment to continue Boston Scientifics focus on innovation and delivering improved patient care while revitalizing the Companys sustainable growth through the continued execution of its POWER strategy.
Kucheman is currently the Executive Vice President and Group President of the CRV Group for Boston Scientific. In this role, he leads the Companys Cardiac Rhythm Management business, its Interventional Cardiology business and Endovascular Unit, which includes the Peripheral Interventions, Imaging and Electrophysiology businesses. Kucheman was instrumental in shaping Boston Scientifics expansion strategy into Asia Pacific and the Companys relationship with Fukuda Denshi in Japan. Previous to this role, he was Senior Vice President and Group President for the Companys Cardiovascular Group where he led the commercialization strategy for the Companys drug-eluting stent program. Kucheman joined Boston Scientific in 1995 with the acquisition of SCIMED Life Systems, Inc. Before joining Boston Scientific, Kucheman held a variety of management positions in sales and marketing for SCIMED, Charter Medical Corporation and Control Data Corporation. He began his career at the United States Air Force Academy Hospital and later was Healthcare Planner, Office of the Surgeon General, for the United States Air Force Medical Service.
On November 1, 2012, it is expected that Kucheman will transition into a senior advisory role and continue to support the business.
Kucheman and Mahoney previously worked together during Kuchemans tenure as a member of the GHX Board of Directors. Mike is a highly qualified and experienced medical device executive with a proven ability to build strong teams that are focused on executing effective growth strategies, stated Kucheman. He and I have known each other for some time. We share the same philosophy about people, the importance of team execution, results orientation, and technology innovation that meets the needs of the customers we serve. We have a proven track record of working effectively with each other in the past, and will continue this legacy of collaboration, continued Kucheman.
Elliott stated, Hanks outstanding leadership ability, medical device experience and real world understanding of the complex international marketplace complement Mikes background and experience. I have no doubt Mike and Hank will work well together in their respective roles to continue driving the Companys innovation and growth and increase the shareholder value of Boston Scientific.
During his tenure as President and CEO, Ray has refocused the Companys business model, significantly restructured and strengthened the organization, reduced the Companys risk profile, and created a five-year strategic plan, POWER, designed to successfully address the future global healthcare landscape and restore the Companys historic financial performance, stated Nicholas. Ray accomplished this through extraordinary leadership, and I am pleased the Board will continue to benefit from his energy, passion and
intelligence.
About Boston Scientific
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit:
www.bostonscientific.com
.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words. These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our leadership, management transition plans, growth and business strategy. If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release. As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: Mr. Mahoneys obligations to his previous employer; arrangements with J&J concerning Mr. Mahoney; future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and, future business decisions made by us and our competitors. All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control. For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item 1A  Risk Factors in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  Risk Factors in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file thereafter. We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.


