FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20111028153731.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
_____________________________________________________________________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
______________________________________________________________________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 24, 2011
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   
(508) 650-8000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) (e)    Departur
e of
Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On October 28, 2011, the Company announced internally that Samuel R. Leno, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer and one of our named executive officers, will be retiring from the Company effective December 31, 2011 (retirement date).
Pursuant to his Offer Letter with the Company (Offer Letter), in connection with his retirement (i) Mr. Leno will receive benefits equivalent to those he would have received under our Executive Retirement Plan as an Executive Committee member and (ii) all of his unvested stock options and deferred stock units will accelerate and become exercisable upon his retirement date, other than those granted to him on February 28, 2011 (2011 Awards) for which continuous service with the Company through the first anniversary of grant is a condition for acceleration upon retirement. The Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee (the Compensation Committee) of the Company's Board of Directors waived this requirement for his 2011 Awards. Further, having been deemed to have met the definition of retirement for our long term incentive plans under his Offer Letter, Mr. Leno's performance share units will remain outstanding and shares of common stock, if any, will be issued on a prorated basis all pursuant to the applicable performance share program.
In addition, in accordance with the terms of the Company's 2011 Performance Incentive Plan (2011 PIP), Mr. Leno will be eligible to receive an award pay-out under the 2011 PIP.
This summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of Mr. Leno's Offer Letter, the 2011 PIP and the Executive Retirement Plan (which have been previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission).
(e)     Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(i)
    
Executive Allowance Program
On October 25, 2011, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, our Board of Directors terminated the Boston Scientific Corporation Executive Allowance Program effective as of December 31, 2011. In consideration thereof, members of the Company's Executive Committee who (i) are actively participating in the program at the measurement date (including our named executive officers meeting such criteria) and (ii) acknowledge the program's termination will be awarded deferred stock units having a value of $75,000 on the date of grant, which will be on the date on which 2012 long-term incentive awards are made to senior executives under the Company's 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
On October 25, 2011, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, our Board of Directors approved the 2012 Performance Incentive Plan (the 2012 PIP) effective for the performance period January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012.
As part of our overall compensation program, our 2012 PIP provides an annual cash incentive opportunity for eligible salaried personnel (including our named executive officers meeting the eligibility criteria) based on the achievement of certain performance metrics. The 2012 PIP is substantially similar to
our 2011 PIP, except that (i) the team component has been reduced from 75% to 25% and the individual component has been increased from 25% to 75% in an effort to appropriately incentivize and compensate for individual performance, (ii) severance proration is determined on a country specific basis, and (iii) certain changes were made to align the 2012 PIP reduction in force and retirement provisions with other of the Company's severance and retirement plans.
A copy of the 2012 PIP is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. This summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2012 PIP.
Item 9.01.
    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits (# compensatory plans or arrangements)
Exhibit No
.
    
Description
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                        
                            
    
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
2012 Performance Incentive Plan
Performance Period January 1 - December 31
The purpose of the Boston Scientific Corporation Performance Incentive Plan (Plan) is to align Boston Scientific and employee interests by providing incentives for the achievement of key business milestones and individual performance objectives and
 
to focus
 
attention
 
on company-wide quality, all of which
are critical to the success of Boston Scientific. For covered employees, the 2012 Plan is established under section 4.a.(8) of the Boston Scientific Corporation 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan and is intended to qualify for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code).
The Plan year runs from January 1 - December 31. The Plan covers all United States employees determined by Boston Scientific to be regular salaried exempt employees (excluding all term employees)
who are ineligible for commissions under any sales compensation plan. The Plan also covers those Boston Scientific International and expatriate/inpatriate employees selected by Boston Scientific for participation. The Plan also does not include any employees who are eligible for any other Boston Scientific incentive plan or program unless the terms of that plan or program expressly permit participation in both that plan or program and this Plan.
Employees who meet the above eligibility criteria and who have at least two full months of eligible service during the Plan year may participate in the Plan on a prorated basis, except to the extent such participation would not be not consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code. Proration will be based on the percentage of time the employees were eligible to participate under all applicable criteria and in the following circumstances: if (1) they have less than one year of eligibility during the Plan year, or (2) they have changed their business unit during the Plan year.
Employees who have less than two full months of eligible service during the Plan year are not eligible to participate in the Plan. Boston Scientific may review Plan participation eligibility criteria from time to time and may revise such criteria at any time, even within a Plan year, with or without notice and within its sole discretion; to the extent that such criteria apply to Boston Scientific's executive officers, this discretion is reserved to Boston Scientific's Board of Directors (the Board) or the Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board (the Committee).
This Plan does not confer eligibility on any employee on leave of absence status. The period of eligible service for purposes of this Plan may be affected by a leave of absence.
Because timely completion of the annual performance review objective setting process is critical to effective administration of the Plan, Boston Scientific reserves the right to deny eligibility to employees and managers of those employees who do not timely complete the annual performance review objective setting process in a given calendar year.
It is Boston Scientific's aim to provide incentive and reward opportunities to employees for world-class performance. Incentive targets have been established for all eligible participants. These incentive targets represent a projected incentive payment as a percentage of base salary. Above market rewards can be earned for above market performance.
There are four main steps to establishing the minimum and maximum available pay opportunity under this program.
Step One: Identify metrics and weighting
Boston Scientific will identify critical performance measures and the weighting of total Boston Scientific and Group/Division/Region/Country financial performance. The Committee will establish performance goals and the associated minimum target and maximum incentive pool funding resulting from attainment of such goals within the first ninety days of the Plan year. The performance measures and weighting will be identified in the form of an annual financial plan. (See Performance Measures and Funding Document).
Step Two: Measure achievement to annual financial plan performance
The performance for each metric will be evaluated separately. Boston Scientific will fund between 0% and 150% of the weighted target based on achievement to annual financial plan performance. Funding in excess of 100% of the weighted target will be at the discretion of the Committee. The total funding pool will be the sum of all metric results for Boston Scientific or the Group/Division/Region/Country.
S
t
ep Three:
Establish minimum and maximum individual opportunity
The employee's opportunity is comprised of a team component and an individual performance component. The team component (25%) is non-discretionary based on the level of financial performance achieved. The individual component (75%) is discretionary. It is based on the level of individual performance as determined by Boston Scientific in its discretion.
Individual performance objectives are established as part of the annual performance review process. All incentive eligible employees are required to develop a set of written, measurable, annual objectives, including a Quality specific objective. The direct manager should make the final determination concerning the objectives.
Based on Boston Scientific's assessment of an employee's performance, the individual performance component can be modified by multiplying it by a factor that ranges from 0% - 200%. For example, if an employee's individual component is adjusted based on the 200% maximum for individual performance, the individual component of the employee's incentive opportunity will be 150% (
i.e.,
75% x 200%).
An employee's incentive opportunity ranges from 25% to 175% (25% team component + 0% up to 150% individual component) of the funding level determined based on achievement to annual financial plan performance. For Code Section 162(m) purposes, the maximum incentive opportunity is 175% of the incentive
funding
based on achievement, and individual performance will be taken into account through the exercise of negative discretion.
The total range of available payment will be from 0% to 262.5% of an employee's incentive target.
Minimum Pay Example (0%):
if the total metric funding based on achievement to annual financial plan performance is 0%, then 25% (combination of team component and minimum individual performance) of 0% equals 0%.
Maximum Pay Example (262.5%):
if the total metric funding based on achievement to annual financial plan performance is 150%, then 175% (combination of team and maximum individual performance) of 150% equals 262.5%.
Step Four: Assess Quality
Further, in determining the level of funding for the incentive payments, the Committee retains the right to modify downward and/or eliminate the incentive pool funding based on its determination, within its sole discretion, of Boston Scientific's progress made toward achievement of Boston Scientific's quality objectives and the performance of Boston Scientific's company-wide Quality System.
The incentive payment for the team component will be determined by (1) multiplying the employee's incentive target by the funding pool percentage for the applicable business unit and (2) multiplying the
result by 25%.
The incentive payment for the individual component will be determined by (1) multiplying the employee's incentive target by the funding pool percentage for the applicable business unit, (2) multiplying the result by 75% and (3) applying an individual performance modifier of 0% up to 200%. The individual component may vary based on that individual's overall performance and achievement of objectives, including an assessment of achievement relative to other eligible employees in the applicable business unit. For Code Section 162(m) purposes, the individual component is determined using a maximum of 200% modifier and individual performance is taken into account through the exercise of negative discretion from that amount.
The total of incentive payments to all eligible individuals may not exceed the total applicable funding pool(s).
The unweighted funding levels for Boston Scientific and Group/Division/Region/Country performance will be based on the Performance Funding outlined in the Performance Measures and Funding document.
A participant must be employed by Boston Scientific on the date of payment to be eligible to receive any award pay-out under the Plan. For example, a participant who is not required to report to work during any notification period applicable under any Boston Scientific severance or separation plan, but who is still an employee on the date of payment, will remain eligible to receive any award pay-out under the Plan. A participant who specifically has been exempted under a specially designed, written Boston Scientific plan or program from the requirement to be employed on the date of payment may remain eligible, depending on the terms of the applicable written plan document; in such cases, the terms of such written plan document will govern in all respects, including as to eligibility, timing and amount of any incentive payment.
Also notwithstanding anything herein, a participant whose employment ceases prior to the date of payment by reason of layoff may be eligible for payment in part or in full under this Plan, depending upon the terms and conditions of the governing Severance Pay and Layoff Notification Plan (Severance Plan) for the country in which the employee is employed at the time of layoff. In the event that there is no country specific Severance Plan, applicable law will apply.
Also notwithstanding anything herein, a participant whose employment ceases prior to the date of payment but after 30 September of the Plan year and who, as of the date of such cessation of employment, (1) has attained age 55, (2) has accrued at least five years of service with Boston Scientific and (3) whose age and years of service as of such date equals or exceeds 65, may participate in the Plan on a prorated basis, proration to be based on the percentage of time the participant was employed and eligible to participate under all applicable criteria; further, a participant whose employment ceases prior to the date of payment by reason of death but who otherwise met all Plan eligibility criteria may participate in the Plan on a prorated basis, proration to be based on the percentage of time the participant was employed and eligible to participate under the applicable criteria.
Pro-rated bonuses under this section are payable only to the extent financial goals are met. Consistent with non-prorated bonuses, the Committee reserves the right to modify downward and/or eliminate the incentive pool funding based on its determination, within its sole discretion, of Boston Scientific's progress made toward achievement of Boston Scientific's quality objectives and the performance of Boston Scientific's company-wide Quality System.
Also notwithstanding anything herein, incentive payments for participants who have a change in standard hours (part-time to full-time, full-time to part-time) will be based on the full-time equivalent target and average annualized salary.
Except as noted above, all incentive payments will be based on a participant's salary and incentive target as of December 31 of the Plan year. Incentive payments in the United States will be made by March 15 of the year following the Plan year after written resolution of the attainment of financial goals by the Committee. Incentive payments outside the United States will be will be processed as soon as administratively possible in each region following the Plan year after written resolution of the attainment of financial goals by the Committee. Incentive payments are typically paid in one installment. The maximum incentive payment payable for the Plan year to a covered employee for purposes of Code Section 162(m) is $3,000,000. Nothing in this Plan guarantees any incentive payment will be made to any individual. Receipt of an incentive payment in one year does not guarantee eligibility in any future year.
To the extent permitted by governing law, the Board will seek reimbursement of incentive compensation paid to any executive officer in the event of a restatement of Boston Scientific's financial results that reduced a previously granted award's size or payment. In that event, Boston Scientific will seek to recover the amount of the performance incentive award paid to the executive officers which is in excess of the amounts that would have been paid based on the restated financial results.
The Board may terminate, suspend or modify and if suspended, may reinstate with or without modification all or part of the Plan at any time, with or without notice to the participant. The Committee has sole authority over administration and interpretation of the Plan and retains its right to exercise discretion as it sees fit.
The Committee reserves the exclusive right to determine eligibility to participate in this Plan and to interpret all applicable terms and conditions, including incentive targets and eligibility criteria for Boston Scientific executive officers, except that the Executive Vice President and General Counsel and Senior Vice President, Human Resources may administer, determine eligibility to participate in the Plan and interpret all applicable terms and conditions for employees who are not Boston Scientific executive officers. Boston Scientific's determinations and interpretations shall be conclusive.
No trust, account or other separate collection of amounts is established for the payment of incentive awards under the Plan, and therefore there is no guarantee that all Plan funding will be paid to participants.
This document sets forth the terms of the Plan and is not intended to be a contract or employment agreement between the participant and Boston Scientific. As applicable, it is understood that both the participant and Boston Scientific have the right to terminate the participant's employment with Boston Scientific at any time, with or without cause and with or without notice, in acknowledgement of the fact that their employment relationship is at will.


