FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20110510105258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(b)    On May 4, 2011, J. Raymond Elliott notified our Board of Directors of his intention to retire as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective December 31, 2011.  Mr. Elliott will remain on the Companys Board of Directors after his retirement.  The Board of Directors has created a special CEO search committee, which includes Mr. Elliott and has commenced its efforts to search for Mr. Elliotts successor.
A copy of our press release announcing Mr. Elliotts intention to retire as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective December 31, 2011 is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits
Exhibit No.         Description
99.1                      Press Release dated May 10, 2011.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit No.         Description
99.1                      Press Release dated May 10, 2011.
 
 

BOSTON SCIENTIFIC ANNOUNCES RETIREMENT OF RAY ELLIOTT AS PRESIDENT AND CEO EFFECTIVE END OF 2011
 
Elliott to remain on Board as non-executive director
Natick, MA (May 10, 2011) -- Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX) today announced that Ray Elliott will retire as President and Chief Executive Officer on December 31, 2011.    The Board has created a special CEO search committee, on which Elliott will serve as a member, to select the Companys next President and CEO.
We believe we have accomplished a lot during my time here:  a strengthened senior leadership team, a clear and executable strategic plan we call POWER, a basis for success in Emerging Markets, a solidified balance sheet due to debt paydown and refinancing and much more, said Elliott. And while the Company continues to evolve, we expect that much of the turnaround work will be complete by the end of the year.  We believe we are well positioned for future growth.  Therefore, I believe the time is right for someone new to take the reins, complete execution of that plan and take Boston Scientific to the next level and new heights.
Elliott continued, It has been, and continues to be, an honor to lead Boston Scientific, but after nearly 40 years in healthcare, the last 33 of those in general management and as a company president, its time for me to permanently pass the baton to a long-term CEO.  Finding the right time to leave is difficult.  Leaving too soon or staying too long can both be problematic.  However, this decision is mine and mine alone.   I am grateful to have received tremendous Board and employee support as CEO, often during challenging times.
On behalf of the entire Company and Board of Directors, I would like to thank Ray for his extraordinary leadership, said Pete Nicholas, Chairman of the Board of Boston Scientific.  Since assuming the CEO position, he has applied his considerable business acumen in ways that have made us a more focused, efficient and competitive corporation.  His commitment to excellence has permeated our global organization, and has imparted us with a solid foundation on which to further grow and succeed with new products and in new markets.
Under Elliotts leadership, the Company made considerable progress in its businesses by:
 
 
-- more --
 
 
 
 
 
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 2
May 10, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I firmly believe that the foundation we have built will allow Boston Scientific to grow and provide increased shareholder value, concluded Elliott.  It has been an honor to serve as CEO. I have great confidence in this Company, our POWER strategy, and the ability of our senior leadership team to achieve our near-, medium- and long-term goals. As a director, I will focus my efforts on our Leadership Academy, Emerging Markets and our Close the Gap initiative that seeks to improve upon disparities in the delivery of healthcare to women, African Americans and Latino Americans.
 
The CEO search committee has commenced its efforts to seek a seasoned, long-term CEO to lead the Company in the next phase of its growth.  The Company expects to identify and announce this individual by December 31, 2011.
About Boston Scientific
 
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices whose products are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties.  For more information, please visit: .
www.bostonscientific.com
 
 
 
 
Boston Scientific Corporation/Page 3
May 10, 2011
 
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend, aim and similar words.  These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.  These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding Mr. Elliotts anticipated future role on the Board of Directors; the timing of the Companys identification of a new President and CEO; our senior leadership team; strategic plans, operating plans and human resources/talent review plans; strategic and operational goals; near-, medium- and long-term goals; growth and cost savings initiatives; research and development, new products and new markets; litigation; and the strength of our balance sheet; cash flows; debt reduction; revenue growth; risk exposure; and our financial condition and performance.  If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.  These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.  As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: the results and timing of the Companys search for a new President and CEO; management changes; future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and, future business decisions made by us and our competitors.  All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control.  For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item 1A  in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A  in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file hereafter.  We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Risk Factors
Risk Factors
 
 
 
 


