FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20110513170856.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Washington, DC 20549
_____________________________________________________________________
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
______________________________________________________________________
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 10, 2011
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   
(508) 650-8000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders (Annual Meeting) of Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) held on May 10, 2011, the Company's stockholders approved the Company's 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the 2011 Plan), which plan will be effective as of June 1, 2011. The Company's Board of Directors (the Board) had previously adopted and approved the 2011 Plan on March 1, 2011, subject to stockholder approval. Terms of the 2011 Plan are described in the Company's 2011 Proxy Statement (the 2011 Proxy Statement), which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on March 28, 2011, which description is incorporated herein by reference and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 2011 Plan. The 2011 Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Approval of Amendment and Restatement of Boston Scientific Corporation 2006 Global Employee Stock Ownership Plan
 
At the Annual Meeting, the Company's stockholders also approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's 2006 Global Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the GESOP), which plan will be effective as of July 1, 2011. The Board had previously adopted and approved the amended and restated GESOP on March 1, 2011, subject to stockholder approval. Terms of the amended and restated GESOP are described in the 2011 Proxy Statement, which description is incorporated herein by reference and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the amended and restated GESOP. The amended and restated GESOP is filed as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
(a)
    
As described in Item 5.02 above, the Company held its Annual Meeting on May 10, 2011 in Boston, Massachusetts.
 
(b)
    
The final voting results on each of the matters submitted to a vote of stockholders at the Annual Meeting are set forth below.
 
 
 
Accordingly, all of the Company's nominees were elected.
    
 
 
(2)
    
Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation:
 
 
Accordingly, the proposal was approved on an advisory basis.
 
(3)
    
Advisory Vote on Frequency of Future Advisory Votes on Executive Compensation:
 
 
Accordingly, the frequency of one year received the most votes from stockholders on an advisory basis.
 
(4)
    
Approval of the Company's 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan:
 
 
Accordingly, the proposal was approved.
 
(5)
    
Approval of the amendment and restatement of the Company's 2006 Global Employee Stock Ownership Plan:
 
 
Accordingly, the proposal was approved.
 
(6)
    
Ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2011:
 
 
Accordingly, the proposal was ratified.
 
 
(d)
    
Exhibits (# compensatory plans or arrangements)
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
 
 
2011 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
 
 
 
 
1.
    
ADMINISTRATION
 
Subject to the express provisions of the Plan and except to the extent prohibited by applicable law, the Administrator has the authority to interpret the Plan; determine eligibility for and grant Awards; determine, modify or waive the terms and conditions of any Award; prescribe forms, rules and procedures (which it may modify or waive); and otherwise do all things necessary to implement the Plan. Once a written agreement evidencing a Stock-based Award hereunder has been provided to a Participant, the Administrator may not, without the Participant's consent, alter the terms of the Award so as to affect adversely the Participant's rights under the Award, unless the Administrator expressly reserved the right to do so in writing at the time of such delivery. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or any Award agreement, except as provided in Section 5 herein the Administrator may not amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate the Plan or any Stock-based Award previously granted, in whole or in part, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company, that would (i) increase the total number of shares available for Awards under the Plan, (ii) replace, regrant, or exchange for cash or other Awards or other Stock-based Awards requiring exercise with an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original Stock-based Award requiring exercise, or (iii) lower the exercise price of a previously granted Stock-based Award requiring exercise. In the case of any Award intended to be eligible for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m), the Administrator shall exercise its discretion consistent with qualifying the Award for such exception.
 
Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the Administrator may modify the terms of the Plan or may create one or more subplans, in each case on such terms as it deems necessary or appropriate, to provide for awards to non-U.S. participants;
provided
, that no such action by the Administrator shall increase the total number of shares issuable hereunder. The Administrator may further, in its discretion, delegate to one or more executive officers of the Company all or part of the Administrator's authority and duties with respect to granting Stock-based Awards to employees not subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, provided that any Stock-based Award granted pursuant to such a delegation shall in the case of all Stock-based Awards, be subject to the standard terms and conditions for Stock-based Awards approved by the Committee and conform to the provisions of the Plan and such other guidelines as shall be established by the Committee from time to time. The Administrator may revoke or amend the terms of such a delegation at any time, but such revocation shall not invalidate prior actions of the delegate that were consistent with the terms of the Plan and applicable guidelines.
 
 
2.
    
LIMITS ON AWARDS UNDER THE PLAN
 
a.
    
Number of Shares
.
Subject to the adjustment provisions in Section 5 below, a maximum of 145,600,000 shares of Stock may be subject to Awards granted under the Plan, less grants made under
the Company's 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan subsequent to January 31, 2011, as provided below. For purposes of the foregoing limitation:
 
(1)
    
Each share covered by a Stock-based Award granted under the Plan, or comparable award under the Company's 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan subsequent to January 31, 2011, shall count on the date of grant against the aggregate number of shares available for grant under the Plan at the ratio of 1:1 in the case of a Stock Option or SAR (or comparable Award under the Company's 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan), and at the ratio of 1:1.85, in the case of any other Stock-based Award (or comparable Award under the Company's 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan).
 
(2)
    
Any Awards (and Awards under the Company's 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan) that on or subsequent to January 31, 2011 are cancelled or forfeited, are settled for cash, or which have lapsed, shall become available again for grant under the Plan, at the ratio of 1:1, in the case of a Stock Option or SAR (or comparable Award under the Company's 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan), and at the ratio of 1:1.85, in the case of any other Stock-based Award (or comparable Award under the Company's 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan).
 
(3)
    
The following shares shall become available again for grant under the Plan at the ratio of 1:1.85: (i) shares subject to an Award that are withheld by, or otherwise remitted to the Company to satisfy a Participant's tax withholding obligation for an Award other than a Stock Option or SAR, and (ii) previously owned shares of Stock delivered in satisfaction of a Participant's tax withholding obligations in respect of a Participant's tax withholding obligation for an Award other than a Stock Option or SAR.
 
(4)
    
Shares subject to an Award (or Award under the Company's 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan taken into account for Plan purposes) may not again be made available for grant under the Plan if such shares are (i) shares that were subject to a Stock-based Award requiring exercise and were not issued upon the net settlement or net exercise of such Stock-based Award, (ii) shares subject to an Award that are withheld by, or otherwise remitted to, the Company (or to a broker in connection with a broker-assisted exercise of a Stock-based Award requiring exercise) to satisfy a Participant's exercise price obligation upon exercise, (iii) shares subject to an Award that are withheld by, or otherwise remitted to the Company to satisfy a Participant's tax withholding
 
 
obligation upon a Participant's exercise of a Stock Option or SAR, (iv) previously owned shares of Stock delivered in satisfaction of a Participant's exercise price or tax withholding obligation in respect of a Participant's exercise of a Stock Option or SAR, or (v) shares repurchased on the open market with the proceeds from the exercise of a Stock-based Award.
 
(5)
    
Awards granted in assumption of, or in substitution or exchange for, awards previously granted, or the right or obligation to make future awards, in each case by a company acquired by the Company or any Affiliate or with which the Company or any Affiliate combines, shall not reduce the shares available for grant under the Plan, nor shall shares subject to such Awards again be available for Awards under the Plan as otherwise provided in subparagraph (2). Additionally, in the event that a company acquired by the Company or any Affiliate or with which the Company or any Affiliate combines has shares available under a pre-existing plan approved by stockholders and not adopted in contemplation of such acquisition or combination, the shares available for grant pursuant to the terms of such pre-existing plan (as adjusted, to the extent appropriate, using the exchange ratio or other adjustment or valuation ratio or formula used in such acquisition or combination to determine the consideration payable to the holders of common stock of the entities party to such acquisition or combination) may be used for Awards under the Plan and shall not reduce the shares available for grant under the Plan; provided that Awards using such available shares shall not be made after the date awards or grants could have been made under the terms of the pre-existing plan, absent the acquisition or combination, and shall only be made to individuals who were not Employees prior to such acquisition or combination.
 
b.
    
Type of Shares
. Stock delivered by the Company under the Plan may be authorized but unissued Stock or previously issued Stock acquired by the Company and held in treasury. No fractional shares of Stock will be delivered under the Plan. Cash may be paid in lieu of any fractional shares in settlement of Awards under the Plan.
 
c.
    
Stock-Based Award Limits
. Subject to the adjustment provisions in Section 5, hereof, the maximum number of shares of Stock for which Stock Options may be granted to any person in any fiscal year of the Company and the maximum number of shares of Stock subject to SARs granted to any person in any fiscal year of the Company shall each be 3,000,000. Subject to the adjustment provisions in Section 5, hereof, the maximum number of shares of Stock subject to Performance Awards that are intended to qualify for the performance-based exception under Section 162(m) of the Code and that may be earned based on performance in each 12 months in a performance period shall be 3,000,000. The 3,000,000 share limit shall be proportionally reduced or increased in the case of any applicable Awards to be earned on the basis of performance over a performance period of less than or greater than 12 months duration. Subject to these limitations, each person eligible to participate in the Plan shall be eligible in any year to receive Awards covering up to the full number of shares of Stock then available for Awards under the Plan. However, in no event shall the maximum number of shares subject to Awards which are intended to qualify as ISOs exceed 145,600,000.
 
d.
    
Other Award Limits
. No more than $3,000,000 may be earned under Cash or Other Performance Awards that are intended to qualify for the performance-based exception under Section 162(m) of the Code in each 12 months in a performance period (other than an Award expressed in terms of shares of Stock or units representing Stock, which shall instead be subject to the limit set forth in Section 2.c. above). This $3,000,000 limit shall be proportionally reduced or increase in the case of any applicable Awards to be earned on the basis of performance over a performance period of less than or greater than 12 months duration.
 
e
.     
Term Limits
. No Awards may be granted under the Plan prior to June 1, 2011 (or the date of the stockholders' initial approval of the Plan, if later) or after the tenth anniversary of the Board's approval of the Plan,
i.e.
, March 1, 2021. Awards granted within the specific period may extend beyond that date, however.
 
3.
    
ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION
 
The Administrator will select Participants from among those key Employees, directors and other individuals or entities providing services to the Company or its Affiliates who, in the opinion of the Administrator, are in a position to make a significant contribution to the success of the Company and its Affiliates. Eligibility for ISOs is further limited to those individuals whose employment status would qualify them for the tax treatment described in Sections 421 and 422 of the Code.
 
 
4.
    
RULES APPLICABLE TO AWARDS
 
a.
    
ALL AWARDS
 
(1)
Terms of Awards
. The Administrator shall determine the terms of all Awards subject to the limitations provided herein.
 
 
 
(2)
Performance Criteria
.
Where rights under an Award depend in whole or in part on satisfaction of Performance Criteria, actions by the Company that have an effect, however material, on such Performance Criteria or on the likelihood that they will be satisfied will not be deemed an amendment or alteration of the Award.
 
(3)
Transferability Of Awards
.
Awards may be transferred only as follows: (i) ISOs may not be transferred other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and during a Participant's lifetime may be exercised only by the Participant (or in the event of the Participant's incapacity, by the person or persons legally appointed to act on the Participant's behalf); (ii) Stock Options other than ISOs may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and, except as otherwise determined by the Administrator, may also be transferred during the Participant's lifetime, without payment of consideration, to one or more Family Members of the Participant; (iii) Awards of Unrestricted Stock shall be subject only to such transfer restrictions under the Plan as are specified by the Administrator; and (iv) Awards other than Stock Options and other than Unrestricted Stock may not be transferred except as the Administrator otherwise determines. If an Award is claimed or exercised by a person or persons other than the Participant, the Company shall have no obligation to deliver Stock, cash or other property pursuant to such Award or otherwise to recognize the transfer of the Award until the Administrator is satisfied as to the authority of the person or persons claiming or exercising such Award.
 
(4)
Vesting, Etc.
Without limiting the generality of Section 1, the Administrator may determine the time or times at which an Award will vest (
i.e.,
become free of forfeiture restrictions) or become exercisable and the terms on which an Award requiring exercise will remain exercisable. Unless the Administrator expressly provides otherwise, upon the cessation of the Participant's employment or other service relationship with the Company and its Affiliates (i) all Awards (other than Stock-based Awards) held by the Participant or by a permitted transferee under Section 4.a.(3) immediately prior to such cessation of employment or other service relationship will be immediately forfeited if not then vested and, where exercisability is relevant, will immediately cease to be exercisable, and (ii) Stock-based Awards shall be treated as follows unless otherwise determined by the Administrator at or after grant:
 
(A) immediately upon the cessation of a Participant's employment or other service relationship with the Company and its Affiliates by reason of the Participant's death, all Stock-based Awards held by the Participant (or by a permitted transferee under Section 4.a.(3)) immediately prior to such death will become vested and, where exercisability is relevant, will be exercisable until the expiration of the stated term of the Stock Option or SAR, provided, however, that if the Award had been outstanding less than one year, this Section 4.a.(4)(A) shall apply only with respect to a pro rata portion of the shares of Stock in which the applicable Award is denominated or to which the Award relates, based on the number of days during which the Award was outstanding as compared to the number of days in such one year period;
 
(B) immediately upon the cessation of a Participant's employment or other service relationship with the Company and its Affiliates by reason of the Participant's Disability, or with respect to a Participant who is an employee or director of the Company or its Affiliates, by reason of such Participant's Retirement, all Stock-based Awards held by the Participant (or by a permitted transferee under Section 4.a.(3)) immediately prior to such Disability or Retirement, as applicable, will become vested and, where exercisability is relevant, will be exercisable until the expiration of the stated term of the Stock Option or SAR, provided, however, that such Award had been outstanding at least one year;
(C) all Stock-based Awards held by the Participant (or by a permitted transferee under Section 4.a.(3)) whose cessation of employment or other service relationship is determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion to be for cause or to result from reasons which cast such discredit on the Participant as to justify immediate termination of the Award shall immediately terminate upon notice by the Company to the Participant of such cessation for cause (for this purpose, cause means a felony conviction of a Participant or the failure of a Participant to contest prosecution for a felony, or a Participant's misconduct or dishonesty which is harmful to the business or reputation of the Company); and
 
(D) unless one of the preceding clauses applies, all Stock-based Awards held by a Participant (or by a permitted transferee under Section 4.a.(3)) immediately prior to the cessation of the Participant's employment or other service relationship with the Company and its Affiliates, to the extent then not vested, shall terminate, and to the extent then exercisable, will remain exercisable for the lesser of one year or until the expiration of the stated term of the Stock Option or SAR unless otherwise determined by the Administrator at or after grant.
 
Unless the Administrator expressly provides otherwise or in the case of cessation for cause, a Participant's "employment or other service relationship with the Company and its Affiliates" will be deemed to have ceased when the individual is no longer employed by or in a service relationship with the Company or its Affiliates (including by reason of any Affiliate ceasing to qualify as an Affiliate). Except as the Administrator otherwise determines, with respect to a Participant who is an employee or director of the Company or its Affiliates, such Participant's "employment or other service relationship with the Company and its Affiliates" will
 
 
not be deemed to have ceased during a military, sick or other bona fide leave of absence if such absence does not exceed 180 days or, if longer, so long as the Participant retains a right by statute or by contract to return to employment or other service relationship with the Company and its Affiliates.
 
(5)
Taxes.
The Administrator will make such provision for the withholding of taxes as it deems necessary. The Administrator may, but need not, hold back shares of Stock from an Award or permit a Participant to tender previously-owned shares of Stock in satisfaction of tax withholding requirements in an amount sufficient to cover withholding required by law for any federal, state or local taxes or to take such other action as may be necessary to satisfy any such withholding obligation. The Administrator may permit shares to be used to satisfy the required tax withholding and such shares shall be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the settlement or vesting date of the applicable Award.
 
(6)
Dividend and Dividend Equivalents
. The Administrator may provide for the payment of amounts in lieu of cash dividends or other distributions with respect to Stock subject to an Award if and in such manner as it deems appropriate, provided, however, that (i) no such amounts shall be paid or accrued in respect of Stock-based Awards requiring exercise and (ii) if the Administrator shall provide for the payment of such equivalents on Performance Awards, in no event shall any such equivalents be paid unless and until such Performance Awards shall have been earned. In addition, no dividends or other distributions with respect to Restricted Stock issued as a Performance Award shall be paid prior to vesting, if ever. At the discretion of the Administrator, any such dividends or other distributions may be deemed invested in additional shares of Restricted Stock, vesting, if ever, as and when the underlying Restricted Stock vests.
 
(7)
Rights Limited
. Nothing in the Plan shall be construed as giving any person the right to continued employment or service with the Company or its Affiliates, or any rights as a shareholder except as to shares of Stock actually issued under the Plan. The loss of existing or potential profit in Awards will not constitute an element of damages in the event of termination of employment or service for any reason, even if the termination is in violation of an obligation of the Company or Affiliate to the Participant.
 
(8)
Section 162(m)
.
The Administrator in its discretion may grant Performance Awards that are intended to qualify for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m) and Performance Awards that are not intended so to qualify. In the case of an Award intended to be eligible for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m), the Plan and such Award shall be construed to the maximum extent permitted by law in a manner consistent with qualifying the Award for such exception. In the case of a Performance Award intended to qualify as performance-based for the purposes of Section 162(m), the Administrator shall preestablish in writing one or more specific Performance Criteria no later than 90 days after the commencement of the period of service to which the performance relates (or at such earlier time as is required to qualify the Award as performance-based under Section 162(m)). Prior to payment of any Performance Award intended to qualify as performance-based under Section 162(m), the Administrator shall certify whether the Performance Criteria have been attained, and such determination shall be final and conclusive. In the case of a Performance Award intended to qualify as performance-based for the purposes of Section 162(m), the provisions of this Section 4.a. shall be construed in a manner that is consistent with the regulations under Section 162(m).
 
(9)
Section 409A
.  Except to the extent specifically provided otherwise by the Administrator, Awards under the Plan are intended to be exempt from or otherwise satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Code so as to avoid the imposition of any additional taxes or penalties under Section 409A of the Code. Where Section 409A applies, to the fullest extent possible, the Plan, Awards under the Plan, and terms contained in the Plan and Awards shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Section 409A. If the Administrator determines that an Award, Award agreement, payment, transaction or any other action or arrangement contemplated by the provisions of the Plan would, if undertaken, cause a Participant to become subject to any additional taxes or other penalties under Section 409A of the Code, then unless the Administrator specifically provides otherwise, such Award, Award agreement, payment, transaction or other action or arrangement shall not be given effect to the extent it causes such result and the related provisions of the Plan and/or Award agreement will be deemed modified, or, if necessary, suspended in order to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code to the extent determined appropriate by the Administrator, in each case without the consent of or notice to the Participant. Notwithstanding any action or inaction by the Administrator, however, each Participant is exclusively responsible for any tax consequences under Section 409A of the Code resulting from any Award.
    
b.
    
AWARDS REQUIRING EXERCISE
 
(1)
Term And Manner Of Exercise.
The term of each Award requiring exercise shall not exceed ten (10) years from the date of grant (five (5) years, in the case of an ISO granted to an Employee described in Section 422(b)(6) of the Code); provided, however, that except in the case of any ISO, the term of any Stock-based Award requiring exercise will be automatically extended if it would otherwise expire on a date when trading in Stock is prohibited by law or by Company policy, but only until the 30th day after expiration of the prohibition. Unless the Administrator expressly provides otherwise, (a) an Award requiring
 
 
exercise by the holder will not be deemed to have been exercised until the Administrator receives notice of exercise (in form acceptable to the Administrator) by the appropriate person and accompanied by any payment required under the Award; and (b) if the Award is exercised by any person other than the Participant, the Administrator may require satisfactory evidence that the person exercising the Award has the right to do so.
 
(2)
Exercise Price
.
The Administrator shall determine the exercise price of each Stock Option;
provided
, that each Award requiring exercise must have an exercise price that is not less than the Fair Market Value of the Stock subject to the Award, determined as of the date of grant, except as necessary to maintain the intrinsic value of substitute Awards in connection with a merger or acquisition consummated by the Company. An ISO granted to an Employee described in Section 422(b)(6) of the Code must have an exercise price that is not less than 110% of such Fair Market Value.
Where shares of Stock issued under an Award are part of an original issue of shares, the Award shall require an exercise price equal to at least the par value of such shares. Except as provided in Section 5, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company (i) the exercise price for any Stock-based Award requiring exercise under the Plan may not be decreased after the date of grant of the Stock-based Award requiring exercise, and (ii) outstanding Stock-based Awards requiring exercise may not be replaced, regranted, or exchanged for cash or other Awards or other Stock-based Awards requiring exercise with an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original Stock-based Award.
 
(3)
Payment Of Exercise Price, If Any.
Where the exercise of an Award is to be accompanied by payment, the Administrator may determine the required or permitted forms of payment, subject to the following: all payments will be by cash or check acceptable to the Administrator, unless one of the following forms of payment is permitted by the Administrator in its discretion in any specific instance (with the consent of the optionee of an ISO, if allowing an additional form of payment would cause the ISO to cease to qualify as an ISO), (i) through the delivery of shares of Stock which have been outstanding for at least six months (unless the Administrator approves a shorter period) and which have a Fair Market Value equal to the exercise price, (ii) through an election to surrender that number of shares for which the Award is otherwise exercisable which have a Fair Market Value equal to the exercise price, (iii) except when prohibited by law, by delivery to the Company of a promissory note of the person exercising the Award, payable on such terms as are specified by the Administrator, (iv) by delivery of an unconditional and irrevocable undertaking by a broker to deliver promptly to the Company sufficient funds to pay the exercise price, or (iv) by any combination of the foregoing permissible forms of payment.
 
(4)
Grant of Stock Options.
Each Stock Option awarded under the Plan shall be deemed to have been awarded as a non-ISO (and to have been so designated by its terms) unless the Administrator expressly provides that the Stock Option is to be treated as an ISO.
 
c.
    
AWARDS NOT REQUIRING EXERCISE
 
Awards of Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock Units and Unrestricted Stock may be made in return for either (i) services determined by the Administrator to have a value not less than the par value of the Awarded shares of Stock, or (ii) cash or other property having a value not less than the par value of the Awarded shares of Stock plus such additional amounts (if any) as the Administrator may determine payable in such combination and type of cash, other property (of any kind) or services as the Administrator may determine.
 
 
5.
    
EFFECT OF CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS
 
 
Except as the Administrator may otherwise determine in connection with the grant of an Award, immediately prior to a Change in Control each Award shall vest (and if relevant shall become exercisable), all Performance Criteria and other conditions to an Award shall be deemed satisfied, and all Award deferrals shall be accelerated. In addition, all Stock-based Awards, except to the extent consisting of outstanding shares of Stock that are then free of any restrictions under the Plan (including after applicable of the preceding sentence), shall terminate immediately prior to the Change in Control unless exercised coincident therewith or assumed in accordance with the immediately following sentence.  If there is a surviving or acquiring entity, the Administrator may provide for a substitution or assumption of Awards by the acquiring or surviving entity or an affiliate thereof, on such terms as the Administrator determines. If there is no surviving or acquiring entity, or if the Administrator does not provide for a substitution or assumption of an Award, the Award shall vest (and to the extent relevant become exercisable) on a basis that gives the holder of the Award a reasonable opportunity to participate as a stockholder in the Change in Control. This Section 5.a. shall not apply to the extent inconsistent with any agreement of the Company or any of its Affiliates with an employee pertaining to the effect of Changes of Control or similar events on outstanding Awards of the employee which is in effect as of the Change of Control.
 
 
 
b.
    
CHANGES IN AND DISTRIBUTIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE STOCK
 
(1)
Basic Adjustment Provisions.
In the event of a stock dividend, stock split or combination of shares, recapitalization or other change in the Company's capital structure, the Administrator will make appropriate adjustments to the maximum number of shares that may be delivered under the Plan under Section 2.a. and to the maximum share limits described in Section 2.c. and will also make appropriate adjustments to the number and kind of shares of stock or securities subject to Awards then outstanding or subsequently granted, any exercise prices relating to Awards and any other provision of Awards affected by such change,
provided
, that no such adjustment shall be made to the maximum share limits described in Section 2.c., or otherwise to an Award intended to be eligible for the performance-based exception under Section 162(m), except to the extent consistent with that exception.
 
(2)
Certain Other Adjustments.
The Administrator may also make adjustments of the type described in paragraph (1) above to take into account distributions to common stockholders other than those provided for in Section 5.a. and 5.b.(1), or any other event, if the Administrator determines that adjustments are appropriate to avoid distortion in the operation of the Plan and to preserve the value of Awards made hereunder;
provided
, that no such adjustment shall be made to the maximum share limits described in Section 2.c., or otherwise to an Award intended to be eligible for the performance-based exception under Section 162(m), except to the extent consistent with that exception, nor shall any change be made to ISOs except to the extent consistent with their continued qualification under Section 422 of the Code without the consent of the holder.
 
(3)
Continuing Application of Plan Terms
.
References in the Plan to shares of Stock shall be construed to include any stock or securities resulting from an adjustment pursuant to Section 5.b.(1) or 5.b.(2) above.
 
 
6.
    
CONDITIONS ON DELIVERY OF STOCK
 
a.
    
LEGAL REQUIREMENTS
 
The Company will not be obligated to deliver or register with its transfer agent any shares of Stock issued pursuant to the Plan or to remove any restriction from shares of Stock previously delivered or registered until the Company's counsel has approved all legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery or registration of such shares; if the outstanding Stock is at the time listed on any stock exchange or national market system, the shares to be delivered or registered have been listed or authorized to be listed on such exchange or system upon official notice of issuance; and all conditions of the Award have been satisfied or waived. If the sale of Stock has not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Company may require, as a condition to exercise of the Award, such representations or agreements as counsel for the Company may consider appropriate to avoid violation of such Act. The Company may require that any registration or certificates evidencing Stock issued under the Plan be subject to an appropriate notation or bear an appropriate legend reflecting any restriction on transfer applicable to such Stock.
 
b.
    
Company Charter and By-Laws; Other Company Policies
    
 
This Plan and all Awards granted hereunder are subject to the charter and by-laws of the Company, as they may be amended from time to time, and all other Company policies duly adopted by the Board, the Administrator or any other committee of the Board and in effect from time to time regarding the acquisition, ownership or sale of Stock by employees and other service providers, including, without limitation, policies intended to limit the potential for insider trading and to avoid or recover compensation payable or paid on the basis of inaccurate financial results or statements, employee conduct, and other similar events.
 
 
7.
    
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 1, the Administrator may at any time or times amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate the Plan, in whole or in part, provided however that without the prior approval of the Company's stockholders, no material amendment shall be made if stockholder approval is required by law, regulation or stock exchange requirement. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or any Award agreement, except as provided in Section 5 herein no such amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation or termination shall be made without the approval of the stockholders of the Company that would (i) increase the total number of shares available for Awards under the Plan, or (ii) replace, regrant, or exchange for cash or other Awards or other Stock-based Award requiring exercise with an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original Stock-based Award requiring exercise, any previously granted Stock-based Awards requiring exercise.
 
 
 
 
8.
    
NON-LIMITATION OF THE COMPANY'S RIGHTS
 
The existence of the Plan or the grant of any Award shall not in any way affect the Company's right to award a person bonuses or other compensation in addition to Awards under the Plan.
 
 
9.
    
GOVERNING LAW
 
The Plan shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
 
 
10.
    
DEFINED TERMS
 
The following terms, when used in the Plan, shall have the meanings and be subject to the provisions set forth below:
 
"Administrator":
The Board or, if one or more has been appointed, the Committee, including their delegates (subject to such limitations on the authority of such delegates as the Board or the Committee, as the case may be, may prescribe). The senior Legal and Human Resources representatives of the Company shall also be the Administrator, but solely with respect to ministerial tasks related hereto.
 
"Affiliate"
: Any corporation or other entity owning, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the outstanding Stock of the Company, or in which the Company or any such corporation or other entity owns, directly or indirectly, 50% of the outstanding capital stock (determined by aggregate voting rights) or other voting interests.
 
"Award":
Any or a combination of the following:
 
(i) Stock Options.
 
(ii) SARs.
 
(iii) Restricted Stock.
 
(iv) Unrestricted Stock.
 
(v) Deferred Stock Unit.
 
(vi) Cash Performance Awards.
 
(vii) Other Performance Awards.
    
    
(viii) Grants of cash, or loans, made in connection with other Awards in order to help defray in whole or in part the economic cost (including tax cost) of the Award to the Participant.
 
"Board":
The Board of Directors of the Company.
 
"Cash Performance Award":
A Performance Award payable in cash.
 
"Change in Control":
Any of:
 
(i) any person, as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) (other than the Company or any corporation owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of stock in the Company) is or becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities;
 
(ii) an acquisition, consolidation or merger if all or substantially all of the beneficial owners of the outstanding stock of the Company and the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors immediately prior to such transaction do not own beneficially, directly or indirectly, and in substantially the same proportion, more than 50% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power
 
 
of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such transaction;
 
(iii) a sale or transfer of all or substantially all the Company's assets;
 
(iv) a dissolution or liquidation of the Company; or
 
(v) if, over a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive months or less there is change in the composition of the Board such that a majority of the Board members (rounded up to the next whole number, if a fraction) ceases, by reason of one or more actual or threatened proxy contests for the election of Board members, to be composed of individuals who either (i) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of that period, or (ii) have been elected or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board described in the preceding clause (i) who were still in office at the time that election or nomination was approved by the Board.
 
Notwithstanding clauses (i) through (v) above, none of the following shall constitute a "Change in Control" for purposes of this definition:
 
(x) the shares of common stock of the Company or the voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors are acquired directly from the Company in a capital raising transaction;
 
(y) the shares of common stock of the Company or the voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors are acquired by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company; or
 
(z) (A) the beneficial owners of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company, and of the securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, immediately prior to such transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, in substantially the same proportions immediately following such transaction more than 50% of the outstanding shares of common stock and of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the corporation (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) resulting from such transaction and (B) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such transaction were members of the board of directors at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, authorizing such transaction.
 
"Code":
The U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as from time to time amended and in effect, or any successor statute as from time to time in effect.
 
"Committee":
The Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board, or any other committee or committees of the Board (including any subcommittee thereof) appointed or authorized by the Board to make Awards and otherwise to administer the Plan. In the case of Awards granted to executive officers of the Company, the Committee shall be comprised solely of two or more outside directors within the meaning of Section 162(m).
 
"Company":
Boston Scientific Corporation.
 
"Covered Employee":
Any employee of the Company and its Affiliates covered by the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code, or which the Administrator anticipates may become subject to the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code at any time at or after the grant of an Award.
 
"Deferred Stock Unit":
A promise to deliver Stock or other securities in the future on specified terms.
 
"Disability":
Permanent and total disability as determined under the Company's long-term disability program for employees then in effect.
 
"Employee":
Any person who is employed by the Company or an Affiliate.
 
Fair Market Value:
The closing price of a share of Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. on the relevant date (or the first preceding trading date for which a closing price was reported, if there was no closing price reported for the relevant date).
 
 
 
"Family Member":
An individual or entity included as a family member'' within the meaning of the Security and Exchange Commission's Form S-8, Registration Statement Under The Securities Act of 1933.
 
"ISO":
A Stock Option intended to be an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
 
"Participant":
An Employee, director or other person providing services to the Company or its Affiliates who is granted an Award under the Plan.
 
"Performance Award"
: An Award subject to Performance Criteria.
 
"Performance Criteria"
: Specified criteria the satisfaction of which is a condition for the exercisability, vesting or full enjoyment of an Award. For purposes of Performance Awards that are intended to qualify for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m), a Performance Criterion shall mean an objectively determinable measure of performance relating to any of the following (determined either on a consolidated basis or, as the context permits, on a market, peer group or other comparative index, functional, divisional, subsidiary, line of business, project or geographical basis or in combinations thereof): (i) sales; revenues; assets; liabilities; costs; expenses; earnings before or after deduction for all or any portion of interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization or other items, whether or not on a continuing operations or an aggregate or per share basis; return on equity, investment, capital or assets; one or more operating ratios; borrowing levels, leverage ratios or credit ratings; market share; capital expenditures; cash flow; free cash flow; working capital requirements; stock price; stockholder return; sales, contribution or gross margin, of particular products or services; particular operating or financial ratios; customer acquisition, expansion and retention; or any combination of the foregoing; or (ii) acquisitions and divestitures (in whole or in part); joint ventures and strategic alliances; spin-offs, split-ups and the like; reorganizations; recapitalizations, restructurings, financings (issuance of debt or equity) and refinancings; transactions that would constitute a change of control; or any combination of the foregoing. A Performance Criterion measure and targets with respect thereto determined by the Administrator need not be based upon an increase, a positive or improved result or avoidance of loss.
 
"Plan":
The Boston Scientific Corporation 2011 Incentive Plan as set forth herein, as from time to time amended and in effect.
 
"Restricted Stock":
An Award of Stock subject to forfeiture to the Company if specified conditions are not satisfied.
 
"Retirement":
Unless the Administrator expressly provides otherwise, cessation of employment or other service relationship with the Company and its Affiliates if, as of the date of such cessation, (i) the Participant has attained age 50, (ii) the Participant has accrued at least five years of service with the Company and its Affiliates, and (iii) the sum of the Participant's age and years of service as of such date equals or exceeds 62.
 
"Section 162(m)":
Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
"SARs":
Rights entitling the holder upon exercise to receive cash or Stock, as the Administrator determines, equal to a function (determined by the Administrator using such factors as it deems appropriate) of the amount by which the Stock has appreciated in value since the date of the Award.
    
 
"Stock":
Common Stock of the Company, par value $.01 per share.
 
"Stock-based Awards":
Any Awards denominated in shares of Stock, such as Stock Options, SARs, Restricted Stock, and Deferred Stock Units, including any Performance Awards in the foregoing form.
 
"Stock Options":
Options entitling the recipient to acquire shares of Stock upon payment of the exercise price.
 
"Unrestricted Stock":
An Award of Stock not subject to any restrictions under the Plan
.
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
2006 GLOBAL EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN
 
Amended and Restated Effective as of July 1, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
2006 GLOBAL EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN
 
Amended and Restated Effective as of July 1, 2011
 
1.
    
Purpose
. The purpose of the Boston Scientific Corporation 2006 Global Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the Plan) is to encourage ownership of common stock by employees of Boston Scientific Corporation and its Related Corporations and to provide additional incentives for such employees to promote the success of the business of the Company and its Related Corporations. The Plan is intended to be an employee stock purchase plan within the meaning of Section 423(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
2.
    
Definitions
. As used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 
(a)    Beneficiary means the person designated as beneficiary in the Optionee's Enrollment Agreement or, if no such beneficiary is named or no such Enrollment Agreement is in effect at the Optionee's death, his or her beneficiary as determined under the provisions of the Company's program of life insurance for employees. If the Optionee is not covered under a program of life insurance or does not elect to participate in such a program, the Optionee's beneficiary shall be determined in accordance with applicable laws of descent and distribution.
 
(b)    Board means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
(c)    Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any statute successor thereto, and any regulations issued from time to time thereunder.
 
(d)    Committee means a committee of the Board appointed to administer the Plan in accordance with Section 4, consisting of not less than two directors of the Company who are not employees of the Company or any Related Corporation, each appointed by the Board from time to time to serve at its pleasure for the purpose of carrying out the responsibilities of the Committee under the Plan, or such committee, officers or employees of the Company or a Participating Employer designated by the Committee to administer the operation of the Plan. For any period during which no Committee is in existence, all authority and responsibility assigned the Committee under this Plan shall be exercised, if at all, by the Board.
 
(e)    Company means Boston Scientific Corporation, a Delaware corporation (or any successor corporation).
 
(f)    Compensation means the total salary or wages or other taxable compensation (such as bonus payments, commissions, short-term disability payments and wage or salary substitution payments) paid by a Participating Employer to the Optionee during active employment (including approved paid leaves of absences not exceeding ninety (90) days) as of a particular pay date, exclusive of expense reimbursement, relocation allowances, tuition reimbursement, adoption assistance benefits, earnings related to stock options or other equity incentives, and post-employment payments that may be computed from eligible compensation, such as severance benefits, salary continuation after termination of employment, redundancy pay, or termination indemnities.
 
(g)    Effective Date means the first business day that an Eligible Employee of a Participating Employer may participate in the Plan, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
 
(h)    Eligible Employee means an Employee who: (i) is customarily employed by a Participating Employer for twenty (20) or more hours per week; and (ii) will not, after becoming an Optionee,
 
 
own Stock possessing five (5) or more percent of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or any Related Corporation. For purposes of the foregoing, the rules of Section 424(d) of the Code shall apply in determining the stock ownership of the Employee, and Stock which the Employee may purchase under outstanding options shall be treated as Stock owned by the Employee. An Optionee shall be deemed to have ceased to be an Eligible Employee either upon an actual termination of employment or upon the corporation employing the employee ceasing to be a Participating Employer.
 
(i)    Employee means an individual treated as an employee of the Company or a Related Corporation for purposes of Section 423 of the Code. For purposes of the Plan, an individual shall not be deemed to have ceased to be an Employee while such individual is on any military leave, sick leave, or other bona fide leave of absence approved by the Company or a Related Corporation of ninety (90) days or less. In the event an individual's leave of absence exceeds ninety (90) days, the individual shall be deemed to have ceased to be an Employee on the ninety-first (91st) day of such leave unless the individual's right to reemployment with the Company or a Related Corporation is guaranteed either by statute or by contract. The Company shall determine in good faith and in the exercise of its discretion whether an individual has become or has ceased to be an Employee and the effective date of such individual's employment or termination of employment, as the case may be. For purposes of an individual's participation in or other rights, if any, under the Plan as of the time of the Company's determination, all such determinations by the Company shall be final, binding and conclusive, notwithstanding that the Company or any governmental agency subsequently makes a contrary determination.
 
(j)    Enrollment Agreement means such written or electronic agreement described in Section 8.2, in such form as may be approved by the Committee or its designee from time to time
,
whereby an Eligible Employee elects to participate in the Plan and authorizes a Participating Employer to withhold payroll deductions from his or her Compensation.
 
(k)    Enrollment Period means the period commencing ten (10) business days (or such other period as may be established by the Committee in its sole discretion) prior to each Offering Period during which Eligible Employees may elect to participate in the Plan.
 
(l)    Entry Date means the first Offering Commencement Date on or after the date on which an individual becomes an Eligible Employee.
 
(m)    Fair Market Value means, with respect to the Stock on a given date, the closing price as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange on such date (or if there shall be no trading on such date, then on the immediately preceding date on which sales were made on the NYSE, or such other appropriate date as shall be determined by the Committee).
 
(n)    Investment Date means the last business day of each Offering Period, or such other date designated by the Committee.
 
(o)    Offering Commencement Date means the first business day of each Offering Period.
 
(p)    Offering Period means the consecutive six (6) month period beginning each January 1
st
and July 1
st
of each calendar year.
 
(q)    Offering Termination Date means the last business day of each Offering Period.
 
(r)    Option means an option to purchase shares of Stock granted under the Plan.
 
(s)    Optionee means an Eligible Employee who has elected to participate in the Plan
 
 
and to whom an Option is granted.
 
(t)    Option Shares means shares of Stock subject to an Option.
 
(u)    Participating Employer means the Company or any Related Corporation designated by the Committee to participate in the Plan as of an Offering Commencement Date.
(v)    Plan means this Boston Scientific Corporation 2006 Global Employee Stock Ownership Plan as set forth herein and as it may be amended or restated from time to time.
 
(w)    Related Corporation means the Company and every U.S. corporation which is: (i) a direct or indirect eighty percent (80%) or more-owned subsidiary of the Company; or (ii) a direct or indirect fifty percent (50%) or more-owned subsidiary of the Company designated by the Committee.
 
(x)    Stock means the common stock, $.01 par value per share, of the Company.
 
3.
    
Effective Date of the Plan
. The Plan's original effective date was July 1, 2006 following the Board's adoption of the Plan on February 28, 2006 and approval by the Company's shareholders on May 9, 2006. The Plan is hereby amended and restated effective as of July 1, 2011; provided, however, such amendment and restatement shall be void if the Company's shareholders do not approve the amended and restated Plan within twelve (12) months before or after the date on which the Board adopts the amended and restated Plan.
 
4.
    
Administration
. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have the authority and discretion to interpret the Plan, to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, to resolve all disputes arising under the Plan, to determine which Related Corporations shall become Participating Employers and as of what dates, to determine the terms of Options granted under the Plan, and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. Any determination of the Committee shall be final and binding upon all persons having or claiming any interest under the Plan or under any Option granted pursuant to the Plan. Except as may be otherwise prohibited under applicable law, the Committee shall have the express authority to delegate its responsibilities under the Plan to other parties, including any officer(s) and/or employee(s) of the Company or a Participating Employer. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may use telephonic media, electronic media, or other technology, including the Company's website and the internet, in administering the Plan to the extent not prohibited by applicable law.
 
5.
    
Amendment and Termination
. The Board may terminate or amend the Plan at any time and from time to time;
provided
,
however
, that the Board may not, without approval of the shareholders of the Company in a manner satisfying the requirements of Section 423 of the Code, increase the maximum number of shares of Stock available for purchase under the Plan. No termination of or amendment of the Plan may adversely affect the rights of an Optionee in the reasonable discretion of the Committee with respect to any Option held by the Optionee as of the date of such termination or amendment without the Optionee's consent.
 
6.
    
Shares of Stock Subject to the Plan
. No more than an aggregate of 35 million shares of Stock may be issued or delivered pursuant to the exercise of Options granted under the Plan. Shares to be delivered upon the exercise of Options may be either shares of Stock which are authorized but unissued or shares of Stock held by the Company in its treasury or shares of Stock purchased on the open market by the Company for issuance under this Plan. If an Option expires or terminates for any reason without having been exercised in full, the unpurchased shares subject to the Option shall become available for other Options granted under the Plan. The Company shall, at all times during which Options are outstanding, reserve and keep available
 
 
shares of Stock sufficient to satisfy such Options, and shall pay all fees and expenses incurred by the Company in connection therewith. In the event of any capital change in the outstanding Stock as contemplated by Section 8.9, the number and kind of shares of Stock reserved and kept available by the Company shall be appropriately adjusted.
 
7.
    
Participation
. Each Eligible Employee may elect to participate in the Plan as of the Entry Date by completing an Enrollment Agreement electing to participate in the Plan as described in Section 8.2.
 
8.
    
Terms and Conditions of Options
.
 
8.1
    
General
. All Options granted to Eligible Employees shall comply with the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 8. Subject to Sections 8.2(d) and 8.8, each such Option shall entitle the Optionee to purchase that number of whole shares calculated in accordance with this Section 8 or such lesser number or value of shares established by the Committee as an additional limitation on the maximum number of Option Shares available under an Option.
 
8.2
    
Enrollment Agreement/Payroll Deductions
.
 
(a)    During each Enrollment Period, an Eligible Employee may elect to participate in the Plan and purchase shares of Stock by completing and submitting an Enrollment Agreement in accordance with such procedures as may be established from time to time by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Enrollment Agreement shall indicate the percentage of the Eligible Employee's Compensation (from 1% through 10%, in multiples of 1%) that the Eligible Employee elects to be withheld on pay dates occurring during the Offering Period.
 
(b)    After the commencement of the Offering Period, an Optionee shall not be permitted to change the percentage of Compensation elected to be withheld during that Offering Period. However, an Optionee may elect to discontinue his or her payroll deductions at any time during an Offering Period and withdraw them by submitting a request, in accordance with such procedures as may be established from time to time by the Committee, no later than ten (10) business days prior (or such other period as may be established by the Committee) to the last day of the Offering Period. The change will be effective as of the first pay date occurring as soon as practicable after the Eligible Employee's request has been received. As soon as practicable following receipt of the Eligible Employee's request, the Eligible Employee shall receive a distribution of the accumulated payroll deductions, without interest.
 
(c)    Any Enrollment Agreement in effect for an Offering Period shall remain in effect as to any subsequent Offering Period unless revoked by the submission of a request to discontinue payroll deductions for that Offering Period or modified by submission of a new Enrollment Agreement during an Enrollment Period for any Offering Period (or such other period as may be established by the Committee), or until the Optionee ceases to be an Eligible Employee for any reason.
 
(d)    Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8, an Eligible Employee may not be granted an Option if the Eligible Employee's rights to purchase Stock under all employee stock purchase plans (as defined in Section 423(b) of the Code) of the Company and its Related Corporations accrue at a rate which exceeds $25,000 of the Fair Market Value of the Stock (determined at the time such option is granted) for each calendar year in which such option is outstanding at any time. The accrual of rights to purchase Stock shall be determined in accordance with Section 423(b)(8) of the Code. In addition, an Eligible Employee may not purchase Stock pursuant to an Option granted under the Plan in excess of ten thousand (10,000) shares per Offering Period.
 
 
 
(e)    An Optionee may purchase Stock under the Plan only by payroll deduction or by such other method(s) of contribution as may be permitted by the Committee in its sole discretion. An Optionee may not make payroll deductions under the Plan for any period or periods after he or she ceases to be an Eligible Employee, even if he or she is then being paid salary continuation, severance benefits or other similar forms of compensation.
 
8.3
    
Purchase Price
. The purchase price of Option Shares shall be the lesser of: (a) ninety percent (90%) of the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the Offering Commencement Date; or (b) ninety percent (90%) of the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the Investment Date.
 
8.4
    
Exercise of Options
.
 
(a)    For each Optionee who remains an Eligible Employee on an Investment Date, all of the Optionee's payroll deductions accumulated during the Offering Period will be applied to purchase the number of whole shares of Stock purchasable by his or her accumulated payroll deductions during the Offering Period, or, if less, the maximum number of shares subject to the Option as provided in Section 8.1, provided that if the total number of shares which all Optionees elect to purchase, together with any shares already purchased under the Plan, exceeds the total number of shares which may be purchased under the Plan pursuant to Section 6, the number of shares which each Optionee is permitted to purchase shall be decreased
pro rata
based on the Optionee's accumulated payroll deductions in relation to all accumulated payroll deductions currently being withheld under the Plan.
(b)    Following the purchase of Stock on each Investment Date, any remaining payroll deductions for each Optionee shall be refunded to the Optionee, without interest, as soon as administratively practicable.
 
(c)    If an Optionee ceases to be an Eligible Employee prior to the Investment Date, the Optionee's payroll deductions shall be refunded to the Optionee, without interest, as soon as administratively practicable, and no shares of Stock shall be purchased on behalf of the Optionee.
 
8.5
    
Delivery of Stock
.
 
(a)
    
As soon as administratively practicable after the Investment Date, the Company shall deliver shares of Stock acquired by the Optionee to a broker designated by the Committee, in its sole discretion, that shall hold the shares in street name for the benefit of the Optionee.
 
(b)
    
The Committee shall record each Optionee's Stock acquired under the Plan in accordance with established electronic book entry procedures. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Optionee shall always have the right to request issuance of a Stock certificate to evidence all or any number of whole shares of Stock he or she has purchased under the Plan. The Optionee shall pay all costs associated with issuing the Stock certificate or certificates described in this Section 8.5. Shares of certificated Stock to be delivered to an Optionee under the Plan shall be registered in the Optionee's name only, or if the Optionee so requests in writing, not later than the last day of the Offering Period, in the name of the Optionee and another person of legal age as joint tenants with rights of survivorship. If any law or applicable regulation of the Securities Exchange Commission or other body having jurisdiction shall require that the Company or the Optionee take any action in connection with the shares being purchased under the Option, delivery of the certificate or certificates for such shares shall be postponed until the necessary action shall have been completed, which action shall be taken by the Company at its own expense, without unreasonable delay.
 
 
 
8.6
    
Restrictions on Transfer
.
 
(a)    Options may not be assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of. An Option may not be exercised by anyone other than the Optionee during the lifetime of the Optionee.
 
(b)    Except as otherwise determined by the Committee and subject to the Company's Stock Trading Policy, Stock acquired by exercise of an Option hereunder may not be assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of, except by will or under the laws of descent and distribution, until the date which is three (3) months after the last day of the Offering Period as of which such shares were acquired (or the date of the death of the Optionee, if earlier), but thereafter may be sold or otherwise transferred without restriction.
 
(c)    Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, Stock acquired by exercise of an Option hereunder and deposited with a broker designated by the Committee for the benefit of the Optionee pursuant to Section 8.5(a) may not be transferred to any other brokerage account for a period of two (2) years following the first day of the Offering Period to which the Option Shares relate. After such restriction period ends, the Optionee may freely transfer the Option Shares to any other brokerage account, without restriction, at the Optionee's personal expense.
 
8.7
    
Expiration
. Each Option shall expire at the close of business on the Investment Date or on such earlier date as may result from the operation of Section 8.
 
8.8
    
Termination of Employment
. If an Optionee ceases to be an Eligible Employee prior to an Investment Date for any reason, his or her Option shall immediately expire and the Optionee's accumulated payroll deductions shall be returned, without interest, as soon as administratively practicable, to the Optionee or his or her Beneficiary, as the case may be, by the Participating Employer, and no shares of Stock shall be purchased on behalf of such Optionee. For the avoidance of doubt, if an Optionee's last day of employment with a Participating Employer is on an Investment Date, the Optionee's payroll deductions accumulated during the Offering Period will be applied to purchase Stock on the Investment Date pursuant to Section 8.4.
 
8.9
    
Capital Changes Affecting the Stock
. In the event that, during an Offering Period, a stock dividend is paid or becomes payable in respect of the Stock or there occurs a split-up or contraction in the number of shares of Stock, the number of shares for which the Option may thereafter be exercised and the price to be paid for each such share shall be proportionately adjusted. In the event that, after the commencement of the Offering Period, there occurs a reclassification or change of outstanding shares of Stock or a consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another corporation or a sale or conveyance, substantially as a whole, of the property of the Company, the Optionee shall be entitled on the last day of the Offering Period to receive shares of stock or other securities equivalent in kind and value to the shares of Stock he or she would have held if he or she had exercised the Option in full immediately prior to such reclassification, change, consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and had continued to hold such shares (together with all other shares and securities thereafter issued in respect thereof) until the last day of the Offering Period. In the event that there is to occur a recapitalization involving an increase in the par value of the Stock which would result in a par value exceeding the exercise price under an outstanding Option, the Company shall notify the Optionee of such proposed recapitalization immediately upon its being recommended by the Board of the Company's shareholders, after which the Optionee shall have the right to exercise his or her Option prior to such recapitalization; if the Optionee fails to exercise the Option prior to recapitalization, the exercise price under the Option shall be appropriately adjusted. In the event that, after the commencement of the Offering Period, there occurs a dissolution or liquidation of the Company, except pursuant to a transaction to which Section 424(a) of the Code applies, each Option shall terminate, but the Optionee shall have the right to exercise his or her Option prior to such dissolution or liquidation.
 
 
 
8.10
    
Return of Accumulated Payroll Deductions
. In the event that the Optionee or his or her Beneficiary is entitled to the return of accumulated payroll deductions, whether by reason of an election to discontinue and withdraw payroll deductions, termination of employment, retirement, death, or, in the event that accumulated payroll deductions exceed the price of shares purchased or the limitations specified in Section 8.2(d), such amount shall be returned by the Participating Employer to the Optionee or the Beneficiary, as the case may be, as soon as practicable. Accumulated payroll deductions held by the Participating Employer shall not bear interest nor shall the Participating Employer be obligated to segregate the same from any of its other assets.
 
9.
    
No Enlargement of Employment Rights
. Neither the establishment nor continuation of the Plan, nor the grant of any Option hereunder, shall be deemed to give any employee the right to be retained in the employ of the Participating Employer, or any successor to either, or to interfere with the right of the Participating Employer or successor to discharge the employee at any time.
 
10.
    
Tax Withholding
. If, at any time, a Participating Employer is required, under applicable laws and regulations, to withhold, or to make any deduction of, any taxes or take any other action in connection any exercise of an Option or transfer of shares of Stock, the Participating Employer shall have the right to deduct from all amounts paid in cash (including, but not limited to, base salary/wages and bonus/incentive compensation) any taxes required by law to be withheld therefrom, and in the case of shares of Stock, the Optionee or his or her estate or Beneficiary shall be required to pay the Participating Employer the amount of taxes required to be withheld, or, in lieu thereof, the Participating Employer shall have the right to retain, or sell without notice, a sufficient number of shares of Stock to cover the amount required to be withheld, or to make other arrangements with respect to withholding as it shall deem appropriate.
 
11.
    
Participating Employer with Non-U.S. Residents
. With respect to any Participating Employer which employs Eligible Employees who reside outside of the United States, and notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Committee or its designee may in its sole discretion amend the terms of the Plan, or an Option granted under the Plan, in order to reflect the impact of local law and may, where appropriate, establish one or more sub-plans to reflect such amended provisions applicable to such Eligible Employees.
 
12.
    
Governing Law
. The Plan and all Options and actions taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.
 
 


