FILE:BSX/BSX-8K-20121101075414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
_____________________________________________________________________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
______________________________________________________________________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 30, 2012
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   
(508) 650-8000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
5.02 (c), (d)
    
Appointment of Michael F. Mahoney as President and Chief Executive Officer and Member of Board of Directors
On November 1, 2012, Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) announced the promotional appointment of Michael F. Mahoney from President of the Company to President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective on that date. The appointment follows a previously disclosed approximate one-year transition period that was designed to accommodate Mr. Mahoney's post-employment obligations to his former employer.
Mr. Mahoney, 47, served as President of the Company from October 17, 2011 to November 1, 2012. In that capacity, he was specifically responsible for the Company's Cardiac Rhythm Management and Endoscopy (GI and Pulmonary) businesses, as well as certain corporate functions. Prior to joining the Company, he was Worldwide Chairman of the Medical Devices and Diagnostics division of Johnson & Johnson from January 2011 to September 2011 overseeing 50,000 employees and seven franchises. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Mahoney served as Worldwide Group Chairman of Johnson & Johnson's DePuy franchise, an orthopedics and neurosciences business, from April 2007 through January 2011. From January 2001 through March 2007, Mr. Mahoney served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Global Healthcare Exchange, a provider of supply chain solutions and services that bring together hospitals, manufacturers, distributors and GPOs. Mr. Mahoney built his early career at General Electric Medical Systems, where he spent 12 years in a variety of advancing leadership roles for domestic and global businesses in CT, MRI, X-ray, Healthcare IT, and Nuclear Medicine, culminating in the role of General Manager of the Healthcare Information Technology business. Mr. Mahoney earned a B.B.A. in Finance from the University of Iowa and a M.B.A. from Wake Forest University.
Effective concurrent with the effective date of his appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and in his capacity as such, Mr. Mahoney was appointed to the Company's Board of Directors to hold office until the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until his successor has been elected and qualified. As an employee of the Company, Mr. Mahoney is not eligible to receive standard director compensation.
Pursuant to the terms of his previously disclosed offer letter dated September 6, 2011, Mr. Mahoney will receive a promotional bonus of $750,000 within 30 days following his appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, which bonus is subject to reimbursement if Mr. Mahoney should voluntarily leave the Company prior to the first anniversary of his promotion.
The description of Mr. Mahoney's offer letter does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text thereof. The offer letter, as supplemented and amended, is included in this filing as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Except as described herein, there are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Mahoney and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Mahoney was elected a director or officer of the Company.
5.02 (b), (e)
    
Retirement of William H. Kucheman as Interim Chief Executive Officer and Member of Board of Directors
On November 1, 2012, the Company announced the retirement of William H. Kucheman as interim Chief Executive Officer of the Company and from the Company's Board of Directors, in each case effective on November 1, 2012 to coincide with the effective date of Mr. Mahoney's promotional appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and, in his capacity as such, Mr. Mahoney's appointment to the Company's Board of Directors.
Effective upon his retirement as interim Chief Executive Officer of the Company on November 1, 2012, Mr. Kucheman was appointed as Senior Advisor of the Company, an executive level position he is expected to hold through year-end. Pursuant to his letter agreement dated October 30, 2012, in his capacity as Senior Advisor Mr. Kucheman will continue
to receive an annualized base salary of $900,000 and remain eligible for an incentive award under the Company's 2012 Annual Bonus Plan at an incentive target of 120% of his annual base salary and in accordance with the terms of such plan. As a member of the executive committee, he will remain eligible for executive level benefits while serving as Senior Advisor of the Company.
Following his tenure as Senior Advisor, it is expected that Mr. Kucheman will provide consulting services to the Company for a one-year period commencing on January 1, 2013. Mr. Kucheman's consulting agreement provides that the Company will pay him for consulting services at a rate of $4,500 per day, or $2,250 per half day, not to exceed a maximum of fifty two (52) days. The consulting agreement also provides for the reimbursement of necessary and reasonable expenses, including travel expenses, and includes other terms and conditions, such as standard confidentiality provisions customary for agreements of this nature.
The description of Mr. Kucheman's letter agreement and consulting agreement does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of such agreements. Mr. Kucheman's letter agreement and consulting agreement are included in this filing as Exhibits 10.2 and 10.3, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
5.02 (e)
        
Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(i)
    
2013 Annual Bonus Plan
On October 30, 2012, upon the recommendation of the Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee (the Compensation Committee), the Board of Directors of the Company approved the Company's 2013 Annual Bonus Plan effective for the performance period January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013.
As part of the Company's overall compensation program, the 2013 Annual Bonus Plan provides an annual cash incentive opportunity for eligible salaried personnel (including the Company's named executive officers meeting the eligibility criteria) based on the achievement of certain performance metrics. The 2013 Annual Bonus Plan is substantially similar to the Company's 2012 Annual Bonus Plan, as amended and restated, and provides:
This description of the 2013 Annual Bonus Plan does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of such plan. A copy of the 2013 Annual Bonus Plan is included in this filing as Exhibit 10.4 and incorporated herein by reference.
(ii)
    
2013 Performance Share Programs
On October 30, 2012, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the adoption of two performance share programs, the Boston Scientific Corporation Total Shareholder Return Performance Share Program for 2013 (the 2013 TSR PSP) and the Boston Scientific Corporation Free Cash Flow Performance Share Program for 2013 (the 2013 FCF PSP). These programs are substantially similar to the performance share programs for 2012 and represent an important component of the overall mix of the Company's long-term incentive program. Under both programs, performance share awards will be granted, if the relevant program criteria are met, to the Company's executive officers and certain members of its senior management team in the form of deferred stock units issued under the Company's 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan, which was previously approved by the Company's stockholders.
(A)    
2013 Total Shareholder Return Performance Share Program
The purpose of the 2013 TSR PSP is to align the Company's executive compensation program with the interests of stockholders and to reinforce the concept of pay for performance by comparing the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of the Company's common stock to the TSR of the other companies included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index over a three-year period beginning on January 1, 2013 and ending on December 31, 2015 (the Performance Period).  Under the 2013 TSR PSP, the TSR for the Company and such other companies will be measured in three annual performance cycles over the Performance Period. At the end of the Performance Period, the final TSR will be calculated using the simple average of the TSR for the three annual performance cycles.  The number of performance shares awarded will be in a range of zero to 200 percent (0-200%) of each participant's target number of awards based on the Company's TSR rank. Performance share awards will vest only upon satisfaction of both the performance criteria and the payment eligibility criteria set forth in the 2013 TSR PSP, subject to certain exceptions in the event of a change of control or termination for retirement, death or disability.
This description of the 2013 TSR PSP does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of such program. A copy of the 2013 TSR PSP is included in this filing as Exhibit 10.5 and incorporated herein by reference.
(B)    
2013 Free Cash Flow Performance Share Program
The purpose of the 2013 FCF PSP is to align the Company's executive compensation program with the interests of stockholders and to reinforce the concept of pay for performance by providing incentives for the achievement of key business performance objectives critical to its success.  Under the 2013 FCF PSP, performance will be measured by comparing the Company's free cash flow for the one-year period beginning on January 1, 2013 and ending on December 31, 2013 against its 2013 financial plan performance for free cash flow. The number of performance shares awarded will be in a range of zero to 150 percent (0-150%) of each participant's target number of awards based on the Company's free cash flow as compared to its financial plan. Performance share awards will only vest upon satisfaction of both the performance criteria and the payment eligibility criteria (which includes a three-year service period) set forth in the 2013 FCF PSP, subject to certain exceptions in the event of a change of control or termination for retirement, death or disability.
This description of the 2013 FCF PSP does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of such program. A copy of the 2013 FCF PSP is included in this filing as Exhibit 10.6 and incorporated herein by reference.
A copy of the Company's press release dated November 1, 2012 announcing certain of the events described under Item 5.02 above is included in this filing as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01
    
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)  
    
Exhibits (# compensatory plans or arrangements)
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                        
                                
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT 10.2
One Boston Scientific Place
Natick, MA 01760-1537
508.650.8000
October 30, 2012
Mr. William Hank Kucheman
[Street]
[City, State, Zip Code]
Dear Hank:
We are delighted that you have agreed to remain employed in the role of Senior Advisor upon the conclusion of your term as interim Chief Executive Offer (CEO). The terms and conditions of your appointment as Senior Advisor, commencing as of November 1, 2012, are as follows.
TERM OF APPOINTMEN
T
Your appointment as Senior Advisor will run from November 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012, As Senior Advisor, you will remain a member of the Executive Committee of Boston Scientific.
BASE SALARY AND BENEFITS
Your base salary will be $900,000 on an annualized basis, and is currently payable bi-weekly. Your position as Senior Advisor is full time and benefits eligible. You shall remain eligible for Executive Committee level benefits and arrangements, in accordance with their respective terms and conditions, during your employment as a Senior Advisor.
ANNUAL BONUS PLAN
Subject to approval by the Board of Directors and its applicable committees (the Board), you will remain eligible for a payment under the Boston Scientific 2012 Annual Bonus Plan at your target rate of 120% of base salary. Your actual award will be based on your achievement of individual goals and the Company's achievement of corporate performance goals, in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
AIRCRAFT
Your use of the corporate-owned aircraft, if any, will be subject to availability, and will otherwise be in accordance with the Company's policies in effect from time to time. All personal use of aircraft will result in imputed income based on U.S. Department of Transportation SIFL rates as required by law, and you will not be reimbursed from any taxes resulting from such imputed income.
EMPLOYMENT AT WILL
Upon acceptance of this offer you will remain an "at will" employee of Boston Scientific. This means that you will be free to resign at any time. Likewise, Boston Scientific will have the right to terminate your employment at any time with or without reason or notice. Acceptance of this offer acknowledges your understanding and acceptance of the "at will" nature of your employment.
ACCEPTANCE
This offer is contingent upon your acceptance no later than October 31, 2012.
Hank, we are grateful for your service and leadership as our interim CEO.
Sincerely,
/s/ Pete M. Nicholas
Pete M. Nicholas
Chairman of the Board
Agreed to and Accepted by: _
/s/ William Hank Kucheman
___________
    
Date:
30 Oct. 2012
___
William Hank Kucheman

EXHIBIT 10.3
[Date]
Hank Kucheman
[Street]
[City, State, Zip Code]
Boston Scientific Corporation
Dear Hank:
This letter constitutes a Consulting Agreement ("Agreement") between you, William Hank Kucheman (Consultant), and Boston Scientific Corporation and its affiliated and associated companies (collectively Boston Scientific).
 
good faith determination, within such period, that the filing of such an application would be contrary to its intellectual property rights set forth herein, Consultant shall amend, or cause to be amended, such proposed patent application to remove any language that is determined by Boston Scientific to be contrary to its intellectual property rights hereunder.
                
                
If the foregoing accurately represents our agreement, please sign at the appropriate place and return one copy of this Agreement to me.
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION
            
AGREED TO, ACCEPTED AND ACKNOWLEDGED:
Name: William Hank Kucheman

EXHIBIT 10.4
2
013 Boston Scientific Annual Bonus Plan
Performance Period January 1 - December 31
October 2012
Boston Scientific Corporation has established the Boston Scientific Corporation Annual Bonus Plan ("Plan"). As explained in detail below, the Plan basically works as follows. For each Performance Year, there is an Aggregate Bonus Pool, which is the sum of the bonus targets of all eligible participants. After the end of the Performance Year, the Committee determines the percentage of the pool that will be paid out as bonus for the year, based on the Company's performance as to Sales and Adjusted Earnings Per Share and its attainment of quality goals. The percentage will be between 50% and 150%. The payable portion of the pool is then separated into an Assigned Bonus Pool for each Business Group, Region and Unit, based on their performance as to their respective Scorecards. The Compensation Management System then allocates the Assigned Bonus Pools among the managers, who evaluate the performance of the participants under their management and determine, for each participant, the percentage (between 0% and 200%) of the participant's Target Annual Bonus that will be the participant's Bonus Award for the Performance Year.
The Plan's purpose is to align the Company's interests and your interests as a Plan participant by providing incentive compensation for the achievement of Company and individual performance objectives. For covered employees, the Plan is established under section 4.a.(8) of the Boston Scientific Corporation 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan and is intended to qualify for the performance-based compensation exception under Code section 162(m).
The capitalized words and terms that are used throughout the Plan are defined in the Glossary in Article IX.
You are eligible to participate in the Plan for a Performance Year if you satisfy all of the following eligibility criteria:
If you are eligible to participate in the Plan for only part of the Performance Year (for example, because you change positions or business units during the Performance Year), then you may participate in the Plan on a prorated basis for the Performance Year,
provided that
you complete at least two full months of Eligible Service during the Performance Year (and, if you are an executive officer covered by Code section 162(m), your participation in the Plan for the Performance Year would not be inconsistent with Code section 162(m)). If you are eligible for prorated participation, the Bonus Award, if any, otherwise payable to you for the Performance Year will be prorated based on your percentage of time in an eligible position during the Performance Year.
2
013 Boston Scientific Annual Bonus Plan
Performance Period January 1 - December 31
October 2012
For each Performance Year in which you are eligible to participate, you will be assigned a Target Annual Bonus, which will be a specified percentage of your annual base salary, determined based on your position. The Bonus Award, if any, that you ultimately receive for the Performance Year will be a percentage of your Target Annual Bonus, determined pursuant to Article IV. The Aggregate Bonus Pool for a Performance Year will be the sum of the Target Annual Bonuses of all employees who are eligible to participate in the Plan for the Performance Year.
Bonus Awards for a Performance Year will be determined pursuant to the following steps:
Step One: Establish performance goals, quality goals and the Corporate Performance Scale
On or before March 31 of a Performance Year, the Committee will establish performance goals for each of the Plan's Performance Metrics and quality goals for the Performance Year. The Performance Metrics are Sales and Adjusted Earnings Per Share. The Committee will also establish the Corporate Performance Scale for the Performance Year, which will be set forth in a separate schedule.
Step Two: Measure achievement and determine Total Annual Bonus
After the end of the Performance Year, the Committee will evaluate the Company's financial performance results for the Performance Year and determine the extent to which the performance goals were attained. The Committee will adopt a written resolution as to the extent of the attainment of the performance goals with respect to each of the Performance Metrics. Based on the extent to which the performance goals were attained, the Chief Executive Officer will make a recommendation to the Committee, consistent with the Corporate Performance Scale, as to the Applicable Percentage of the Aggregate Bonus Pool to be paid by the Company as the Total Annual Bonus for the Performance Year. Taking into account the Chief Executive Officer's recommendation and any other factors that the Committee, in its discretion, deems appropriate, the Committee will approve an Applicable Perce
ntage for the Performance Year, which must be consistent with the Corporate Performance Scale. The Committee retains the right to reduce the Total Annual Bonus for the Performance Year based on the Committee's Quality Assessment. In no event, however, will the Total Annual Bonus be less than 50% of the Annual Bonus Pool for the Performance Year.
Step Three: Allocate the Total Annual Bonus
The Chief Executive Officer will make a recommendation to the Committee as to how the Total Annual Bonus for the Performance Year should be allocated among the Business Groups and Regions, based on their overall and relative performance against their respective applicable Scorecards for the Performance Year. Taking into account the Chief Executive Officer's recommendation and any other factors that the Committee, in its discretion, deems appropriate, the Committee will approve an allocation of the Total Annual Bonus among the Business Groups and Regions for the Performance Year. The portion of the Total Annual Bonus allocated to a Business Group or Region (its A
ssigned Bonus Pool) will be a percentage of the total Target Annual Bonuses of all its employees who participate in the Plan for the Performance Year. If a Business Group or Region has Units, the leader of the Business Group or Region will divide the Assigned Bonus Pool among the Units, based on their overall and relative performance against each Unit's applicable Scorecard for the Performance Year, so that each Unit will then have its own Assigned Bonus Pool. A Business Group or Region that does not have Units (for example, Corporate) will have a single Assigned Bonus Pool.
2
013 Boston Scientific Annual Bonus Plan
Performance Period January 1 - December 31
October 2012
Step Four: Determine participants' individual Bonus Awards
Once the Assigned Bonus Pool is determined for each Business Group, Region, or Unit, the amount of the Assigned Bonus Pool will be entered into the Compensation Management System, which allocates a portion of the Assigned Bonus Pool to each manager of Plan participants. Each manager will evaluate the performance of each participant under his or her management and enter into the Compensation Management System a rating percentage, from 0% to 200%, for each evaluated participant. The rating percentage that your manager assigns to you will, in turn, determine the percentage of your Target Annual Bonus that will be your Bonus Award for the Performance Year.
If participants leave the Company before the Payment Date and, as a result, do not earn their Bonus Awards for the Performance Year, their Bonus Awards will be reallocated by the Chief Executive Officer, in his or her discretion, to other participants who are employed on the Payment Date and will become part of the Bonus Awards paid to those other participants. As provided in Article V, all Bonus Awards for a Performance Year (including those reallocated pursuant to the previous sentence) will be paid to eligible participants no later than March 15 of the following year.
Special Rules with Respect to Executive Officers
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Committee retains sole and complete discretion to determine the eligibility of, and any Bonus Award payable to, each executive officer covered by Code section 162(m).
The maximum Bonus Award payable with respect to a Performance Year to an executive officer covered by Code section 162(m) is $3,250,000.
Payment Date and Form of Payment
. Bonus Awards in the United States will be made by March 15 of the year following the Performance Year for which the Bonus Awards are made. Bonus Awards outside the United States will be processed as soon as administratively possible in each region following the end of the Performance Year and after the Committee has adopted its written resolution as to the attainment of performance goals pursuant to Article IV. Your Bonus Award, if any, will be paid in a single lump sum payment.
Required Employment on the Payment Date
. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article V, to be eligible to receive payment of any Bonus Award, you must be employed by the Company on the Payment Date for that Bonus Award. In other words, except as expressly provided in this Article V, if you cease employment with Boston Scientific Corporation and all of its Affiliates before the Payment Date, you will not be eligible to receive any Bonus Award that would otherwise have been payable to you if you had been a Company employee on that date. Conversely, if you are an employee of the Company on the Payment Date, you will be entitled to your Bonus Award, if any, even if you are not actively performing duties on that date. For example, if you are not required to report to work during a notification period applicable under a Company severance or separation plan, but you are still a Company employee during that period, and the Payment Date occurs during your notification period, you will remain eligible to receive your Bonus Award.
Exception Under Written Company Plan or Agreement
. If you are specifically exempted, under a written Company plan or agreement, from the requirement to be employed on the Payment Date, you may remain eligible for payment of your Bonus Award, depending on the terms of the applicable written plan or agreement. In such cases, the terms of such written plan or agreement will govern in all respects.
2
013 Boston Scientific Annual Bonus Plan
Performance Period January 1 - December 31
October 2012
Layoff
. Also notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if you are a participant and your employment ceases prior to the Payment Date by reason of Layoff, you may be eligible for payment of part or all of your Bonus Award, depending on the terms and conditions of the applicable severance pay plan, if any, for the country in which you are employed at the time of layoff. In the event that there is no country-specific severance plan for the country in which you are employed at the time of your Layoff, applicable law will apply.
Retirement
. Also notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if you are a participant and your employment ceases prior to the Payment Date for a Bonus Award but after September 30 of the Performance Year to which the Bonus Award pertains, and you had at least nine months of Eligible Service in the Performance Year, you will be entitled to a prorated portion of the Bonus Award, if any, that would otherwise be paid you if, as of the date of your cessation of employment, (1) you had attained age 55, (2) you had accrued at least five years of service with the Company and (3) the sum of your age and years of service as of your date of cessation of employment equals or exceeds 65. In such a case, proration will be based on the percentage of time in the Performance Year during which you were employed and eligible to participate in the Plan. The prorated Bonus Award, if any, will be paid on the Payment Date.
Death
. If your employment ceases prior to the Payment Date by reason of your death, but you otherwise met all eligibility criteria specified in Article II, your estate may receive a prorated portion of the Bonus Award, if any, that would have been paid had you lived to the Payment Date. In such a case, proration will be based on the percentage of time in the Performance Year during which you were employed and eligible to participate in the Plan. The prorated Bonus Award, if any, will be paid on the Payment Date.
Adjustment for Changes in Standard Hours
. Also notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if you are a participant and have a change in standard hours (part-time to full-time, full-time to part-time) during a Performance Year, your Bonus Award, if any, for the Performance Year will be based on the full-time equivalent Target Annual Bonus and your average annualized base salary for the Performance Year. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, all Bonus Awards will be based on your salary and incentive target as of December 31 of the Performance Year.
No Guarantee of a Bonus Award
. Nothing in this Plan guarantees that any Bonus Award will be made to any individual. Receipt of a Bonus Award in one year does not guarantee eligibility in any future year.
To the extent permitted by governing law, the Board will seek reimbursement of a Bonus Award paid to any executive officer in the event of a restatement of the Company's financial results that reduced a previously granted Bonus Award's size or payment. In that event, the Company will seek to recover the amount of the Bonus Award paid to the executive officers that exceeded the amounts that would have been paid based on the restated financial results.
The Board may terminate, suspend or modify (and if suspended, may reinstate with or without modification) all or part of the Plan at any time, with or without notice to participants. The Committee has sole authority over administration and interpretation of the Plan, and the Committee retains its right to exercise discretion as it sees fit.
The Committee reserves the exclusive right to determine eligibility to participate in this Plan and to interpret all applicable terms and conditions, including eligibility criteria, performance objectives and payment conditions, for the Company's executive officers. The Committee delegates to the Company's highest human resources officer the authority to administer, and determine eligibility to participate in, the Plan and interpret all applicable terms and conditions for employees who are not executive officers of the Company. The determinations and interpretations of the Committee and its delegates will be conclusive.
2
013 Boston Scientific Annual Bonus Plan
Performance Period January 1 - December 31
October 2012
All Bonus Awards are paid from the Company's general assets. No trust, account or other separate collection of amounts will be established for the payment of Bonus Awards under the Plan. Bonus Awards are unfunded obligations of the Company, so if and when a Bonus Award becomes due, a participant's rights to payment are no greater than the rights of a general unsecured creditor.
This document sets forth the terms of the Plan and is not intended to be a contract or employment agreement between you or any other participant and the Company. As applicable, it is understood that both you and the Company have the right to terminate your employment with the Company at any time, with or without cause and with or without notice, in acknowledgement of the fact that your employment relationship with the Company is at will.
As used in the Plan, the following words and terms, when capitalized, have the following meanings:
Adjusted Earnings Per Share
means, with respect to a Performance Year, Adjusted Net Income divided by weighted average shares outstanding for the Performance Year (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles).
Adjusted Net Income
means the Company's GAAP Net Income (as defined for purposes of the Boston Scientific Corporation 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan) excluding goodwill and intangible asset impairments, acquisition, divestiture, and purchased research and development charges, restructuring expenses, certain tax-related items, and certain litigation and amortization expenses.
Affiliate
means any corporation, trust, partnership, or any other entity that is considered to be a single employer with Boston Scientific Corporation under Code sections 414(b), (c), (m), or (o), such as a wholly-owned (or at least 80%-owned) subsidiary of Boston Scientific Corporation.
Aggregate Bonus Pool
means, with respect to a Performance Year, the sum of the Target Annual Bonuses of all employees who are eligible to participate in the Plan for the Performance Year.
Applicable Percentage
means, with respect to a Performance Year, a percentage, determined by the Committee in accordance with the Corporate Performance Scale, which cannot be less than 50% or more than 150%. The Applicable Percentage is used to determine the portion of the Aggregate Bonus Pool that the Company will pay out as the Total Annual Bonus for the Performance Year.
Assigned Bonus Pool
means, with respect to a Business Group, Region, or Unit for a Performance Year, the portion of the Total Annual Bonus assigned to the Business Group, Region, or Unit to be paid as Bonus Awards for the Performance Year to eligible participants who worked for the Business Group, Region, or Unit during the Performance Year.
Board
means the Board of Directors of Boston Scientific Corporation.
Bonus Award
means, with respect to a participant for a Performance Year, the annual incentive bonus, if any, payable to the participant for the Performance Year, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
Business Group
means a functional or product-based area of the Company's business, as designated by the Chief Executive Officer from time to time.
Chief Executive Officer
means the Chief Executive Officer of Boston Scientific Corporation.
Code
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and its interpretive rules and regulations.
2
013 Boston Scientific Annual Bonus Plan
Performance Period January 1 - December 31
October 2012
Committee
means the Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board.
Company
means Boston Scientific Corporation and its Affiliates.
Compensation Management System
means the software tool used by the Company for various compensation management purposes.
Corporate Performance Scale
means, with respect to a Performance Year, the schedule used to determine, based on the extent of attainment of the performance goals for the Performance Year, the Applicable Percentage of the Aggregate Bonus Pool to be paid as the Total Annual Bonus for the Performance Year. The Corporate Performance Scale must provide that the Applicable Percentage for a Performance Year cannot be less than 50%.
Eligible International Employee
means an international, international operations, or expatriate employee of the Company working in a position designated by the Company as eligible to participate in the Plan.
Eligible Service
means periods in which you are considered, under the rules and procedures of the Company, to be in active service as a Regular Exempt Employee or Eligible International Employee (including, but not limited to, time away from work for approved vacation, recognized holidays, and FMLA leave).
Layoff
means a layoff or similar involuntary termination from employment that renders you eligible for severance pay under a Company severance plan or applicable law.
Payment Date
means, with respect to a Performance Year, the date on which Bonus Awards for the Performance Year are paid to participants, which will be no later than March 15 of the following year.
Performance Metrics
means Sales and Adjusted Earnings Per Share.
Performance Year
means the 12-month period beginning on January 1 and ending on the following December 31.
Plan
means the Boston Scientific Annual Bonus Plan, which is set forth in this document, as it may be amended from time to time.
Quality Assessment
mea
ns the process undertaken by the Committee following the end of each Performance Year, to evaluate the Company's progress made toward achievement of its quality objectives and the performance of the Company-wide quality system.
Region
means a geographic region, as designated by the Chief Executive Officer from time to time, comprising a portion of the Company's international business.
Regular Exempt Employee
means an employee of the Company who is on the Company's United States payroll and (1) classified by the Company as a regular full-time or regular part-time Employee; (2) performs a job that the Company has determined to be exempt from the minimum wage and overtime requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (FLSA); and (3) is
not
any of the following:
Sales
means "BSC Global Sales" as that term is defined for purposes of the Boston Scientific Corporation 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan, which measures sales using constant currency rates.
Scorecard
means, with respect to a Performance Year, the tool used to establish performance measures and objectives with respect to a Business Group, Region, or Unit for the Performance Year.
2
013 Boston Scientific Annual Bonus Plan
Performance Period January 1 - December 31
October 2012
Target Annual Bonus
has the meaning given to that term in Article III.
Total Annual Bonus
represents, with respect to a Performance Year, the total dollars to be paid out by the Company to all participating employees as Bonus Awards for the Performance Year.
Unit
means a business unit of Business Group or Region, such as a plant or division (for a Business Group) or a country or group of countries (for a Region); the Units of a Business Group or Region may change from time to time.

EXHIBIT 10.5
Boston Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific)
Total Shareholder Return Performance Share Program (TSR Program)
Performance Period January 1, 2013 - December 31, 2015
The purpose of the TSR Program is to align Boston Scientific's executive compensation program with the interests of shareholders and to reinforce the concept of pay for performance by comparing the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of shares of Boston Scientific Common Stock (the Common Stock) to the TSR of companies included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index over a three-year period beginning on January 1, 2013.
The TSR Program entails the grant of Deferred Stock Units, and the program shall be administered, under the Boston Scientific Corporation 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the 2011 LTIP). Terms not defined in this TSR Program document but defined in the 2011 LTIP shall have the same meaning as in the 2011 LTIP. For Covered Employees, the TSR Program is established under section 4.a.(8) of the 2011 LTIP and is intended to qualify for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code).
The TSR Program covers members of the Executive and Operating Committees on the date that awards are granted under the TSR Program as determined and in the amounts established by the Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the Committee).
The Committee may review TSR Program eligibility criteria for participants in the TSR Program from time to time and may revise such criteria at any time, even within a TSR Program year, with or without notice and within its sole discretion.
The Deferred Stock Units awarded under the TSR Program (the Performance Share Units) shall vest only upon satisfaction of both the performance criteria described in this Section III and the payment eligibility criteria described in Section VII. The applicable performance criteria are based on the TSR of the Common Stock relative to the TSR of companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
The TSR for Boston Scientific and all other companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index will be measured in three annual Performance Cycles (as defined below) over a three-year period beginning January 1, 2013 and ending on December 31, 2015 (the Performance Period).
The final TSR calculation for determination of the number of Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this Section III shall be determined to be satisfied will be the simple average of the TSR as measured based on each of the three annual Performance Cycles.
The number of Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria under this program shall be determined to have been satisfied will be in a range of 0% to 200% of the target number of Performance Share Units awarded to the participant as follows:
Boston Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific)
Total Shareholder Return Performance Share Program (TSR Program)
Performance Period January 1, 2013 - December 31, 2015
If the minimum level of performance is achieved, the number of Performance Share Units will be calculated linearly between each set of data points.
Following the end of the Performance Period, the Committee shall determine the number of Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied, which determination shall be final and binding. Shares of Common Stock will be delivered or otherwise made available to the participant no later than March 15, 2016 in settlement of the Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied if and to the extent the payment eligibility criteria of Section VII below are also satisfied. Any Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this Section III have not been satisfied will be forfeited in their entirety.
The TSR for Boston Scientific and each other company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index shall include any cash dividends paid during the Performance Period and shall be determined as follows:
Total Shareholder Return for each Performance Cycle
=
(Change in Stock Price + Dividends Paid) / Beginning Stock Price
Total Shareholder Return for the three-year Performance Period =
Results of (Performance Cycle 1 + Performance Cycle 2 + Performance Cycle 3) / 3
Beginning Stock Price
 means the daily average closing price as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Global Select Market, as applicable, of one (1) share of common stock for the two calendar months
prior
to the beginning of each Performance Cycle.
Change in Stock Price
 means the difference between the Beginning Stock Price and the Ending Stock Price.
Dividends Paid
 means the total of all cash dividends paid on one (1) share of stock during the applicable Performance Cycle.
Ending Stock Price
 means the daily average closing price as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Global Select Market, as applicable, of one (1) share of common stock for the last two calendar months of the Performance Cycle.
Performance Cycle
 means the one-year period commencing each January 1 and ending on December 31 during the Performance Period.
Performance Cycle 1
is the Performance Cycle during which the Beginning Stock Price is determined as of January 1, 2013 and the Ending Stock Price is determined as of December 31, 2013.
Performance Cycle 2
is the Performance Cycle during which the Beginning Stock Price is determined as of January 1, 2014 and the Ending Stock Price is determined as of December 31, 2014.
Boston Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific)
Total Shareholder Return Performance Share Program (TSR Program)
Performance Period January 1, 2013 - December 31, 2015
Performance Cycle 3
is the Performance Cycle during which the Beginning Stock Price is determined as of January 1, 2015 and the Ending Stock Price is determined as of December 31, 2015.
Example:
If the Beginning Stock Price for a company was $25.00 per share, and the company paid $2.50 in dividends over the Performance Cycle, and the Ending Stock Price was $30.00 per share (thereby making the Change in Stock Price $5.00 ($30.00 minus $25.00)), then the TSR for that company would be thirty percent (30%). The calculation is as follows:
0.30
= ($5.00 + $2.50) / $25.00
Following the calculation of the TSR for the Performance Period
for Boston Scientific and each of the other companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index, Boston Scientific and the other companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index will be ranked, in order of maximum to minimum, according to their respective TSR for the Performance Period.
After this ranking, the percentile performance of Boston Scientific as compared to the other companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index shall be determined by the following formula:
P represents the percentile performance which will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest whole percentile by application of standard scientific rounding conventions.
N represents the number of companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index, including Boston Scientific.
R represents Boston Scientific's ranking versus the other companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
Example:
If Boston Scientific ranked 10
th
out of 54 companies, the performance (P) therefore will be in the 83
rd
percentile.
This calculation is as follows:
    
0.83
= 1 - (10 - 1) / (54 - 1)
The companies currently included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index can be found in Appendix A attached hereto.
Only companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index for an entire Performance Cycle will be used to determine the TSR percentile rank for that Performance Cycle.
If two companies in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index merge, the surviving company shall remain in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
If a company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index merges with, or is acquired by, a company that is not in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index, and the company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index is the surviving company, then the surviving company shall be included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
Boston Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific)
Total Shareholder Return Performance Share Program (TSR Program)
Performance Period January 1, 2013 - December 31, 2015
If a company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index merges with, or is acquired by, a company that is not in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index, and the company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index is not the surviving company or the surviving company is no longer publicly traded, then the surviving company shall not be included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a company in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index ceases to be listed in the Healthcare Sector under the Standard & Poor's Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) at any time during the Performance Cycle (including after a merger, acquisition or other business transaction described above), then it shall not be included in the S&P 500 Healthcare Index.
Except as set forth below with respect to a Change in Control or termination of employment due to Retirement, death, or Disability, (i) no Performance Share Units shall vest prior to the end of the Performance Period (December 31, 2015) and (ii) a participant must be employed by the Company (as defined below) on December 31, 2015 to be eligible to receive shares of Common Stock in respect of his or her Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied.
If a participant's employment with Boston Scientific and its Affiliates (the Company) terminates before the end of the Performance Cycle 1 (December 31, 2013), all of his or her Performance Share Units shall be forfeited in their entirety.
If a participant's employment with the Company terminates after the Performance Cycle 1 ends but before the end of the Performance Period, all of his or her Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this Program have been satisfied shall be forfeited, except in connection with Retirement, death, Disability or upon a Change of Control as outlined below.
Participants on military, sick or other bona fide leave of absence on December 31, 2015 will not be deemed to have terminated employment with the Company if such absence does not exceed 180 days or, if longer, the period the participant retains the right by statute or by contract to return to employment with the Company.
If a participant's employment with the Company terminates due to Retirement, death, or Disability or there is a Change in Control after the end of Performance Cycle 1 but before the end of the Performance Period, shares of Common Stock shall be issued in respect of the Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied within 70 days of the effective date of the termination or Change in Control, as applicable, on a prorated basis using the effective date of the participant's termination of employment or the Change in Control, as applicable (as described in this Section VII below). The number of prorated shares to be issued to the participant, if any, will be approved by the Committee at its next regular meeting.
If a participant's employment terminates due to Retirement, death, or Disability or there is Change in Control is during Performance Cycle 2, then the number of shares to be issued on a prorated basis shall be determined as follows: (# Performance Share Units achieved pursuant to the table in Section III as determined by the percentile calculated for Performance Cycle 1) * ((# of months worked during the Performance Period, rounded to nearest whole month) / 36).
If a participant's employment terminates due to Retirement, death, or Disability or there is Change in Control is during Performance Cycle 3, then the number of shares to be issued on a prorated basis shall be determined as follows: (# Performance Share Units achieved pursuant to the table in Section III as determined by the simple average of the percentiles for both Performance Cycle 1 and Performance Cycle 2) * ((# of months worked during the Performance Period, rounded to nearest whole month) / 36).
Boston Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific)
Total Shareholder Return Performance Share Program (TSR Program)
Performance Period January 1, 2013 - December 31, 2015
The Committee has sole authority over administration and interpretation of the TSR Program and retains its right to exercise discretion as it sees fit, except that, with respect to Covered Employees, the Committee shall have no discretion to increase the number of shares of Common Stock in which a participant may vest above the amount described in Section III. The Committee may terminate, suspend or modify and if suspended, may reinstate with or without modification all or part of the TSR Program at any time, with or without notice to the participant. The Committee reserves the exclusive right to determine eligibility to participate in this TSR Program and to interpret all applicable terms and conditions, including eligibility criteria.
IX.
    
Other
This document sets forth the terms of the TSR Program and is not intended to be a contract or employment agreement between the participant and the Company. As applicable, it is understood that both the participant and the Company have the right to terminate the participant's employment with the Company at any time, with or without cause and with or without notice, in acknowledgement of the fact that their employment relationship is at will.
To the extent section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) applies to any award under this TSR Program, the award shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Code section 409A. Where section 409A applies, in the case of any payment made on termination of employment, a termination of employment shall not be deemed to have occurred unless such termination is also a separation from service within the meaning of Code section 409A and, for purposes of any such provision, references to a termination, termination of employment, or like terms shall mean separation from service. Where section 409A applies, in the case of a payment made upon a Change in Control, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to have occurred unless there is a change in the ownership or effective control of Boston Scientific, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of Boston Scientific, as defined in Code section 409A. Where required by section 409A in the case of a specified employee (as determined under Code section 409A), payments on termination shall be made on the first business day of the seventh month following termination.
Boston Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific)
Total Shareholder Return Performance Share Program (TSR Program)
Performance Period January 1, 2013 - December 31, 2015
Appendix A
Annual Executive LTIP Program
S&P 500 Healthcare Index - 52 Companies

EXHIBIT 10.6
Boston Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific)
Free Cash Flow Performance Share Program
(FCF Program)
Performance Period January 1, 2013 - December 31, 2013
The purpose of the FCF Program is to align Boston Scientific's executive compensation program with the interests of shareholders and to reinforce the concept of pay for performance by providing incentives for the achievement of key business performance objectives which are critical to the success of Boston Scientific.
The FCF Program entails the grant of Deferred Stock Units, and the program shall be administered, under the Boston Scientific Corporation 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the 2011 LTIP). Terms not explicitly defined in this FCF Program document but defined in the 2011 LTIP shall have the same meaning as in the 2011 LTIP. For Covered Employees, the FCF Program is established under section 4.a.(8) of the 2011 LTIP and is intended to qualify for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code).
The FCF Program covers members of the Executive and Operating Committees on the date that awards are granted under the FCF Program as determined and in the amounts established by the Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the Committee).
The Committee may review FCF Program eligibility criteria for participants in the FCF Program from time to time and may revise such criteria at any time, even within a FCF Program year, with or without notice and within its sole discretion.
The Deferred Stock Units awarded under the FCF Program (the Performance Share Units) shall vest only upon satisfaction of both the performance criteria described in this Section III and the payment eligibility criteria described in Section V.
The performance criteria are based on Boston Scientific's achievement of the 2012 annual financial plan performance for Free Cash Flow. Boston Scientific Free Cash Flow will be measured over a one-year performance period beginning January 1, 2013 and ending on December 31, 2013.
The number of Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria under this program shall be determined to have been satisfied will be in a range of 0% to 150% of the target number of Performance Share Units awarded to the participant as follows:
If the minimum level of performance is achieved, the number of Performance Share Units will be calculated linearly between each set of data points.
Boston Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific)
Free Cash Flow Performance Share Program
(FCF Program)
Performance Period January 1, 2013 - December 31, 2013
Following the end of the Performance Period, the Committee shall determine the number of Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this Program have been satisfied, which determination shall be final and binding. Shares of Common Stock will be delivered or otherwise made available to the participant no later than January 15, 2016 in settlement of the Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied if and to the extent the payment eligibility criteria of Section V below are also satisfied. Any Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this Section III have not been satisfied shall be forfeited in their entirety.
Boston Scientific Free Cash Flow
means reported operating cash flow minus capital expenditures and excludes cash flows associated with certain significant and unusual litigation, acquisition, restructuring, and tax-related items.
Performance Period
 means the one-year period commencing January 1, 2013 and ending on December 31, 2013.
Service Period
 means the three-year period beginning January 1, 2013 and ending on December 31, 2015.
Except as set forth below with respect to a Change in Control or termination of employment due to Retirement, death or Disability, (i) no Performance Share Units shall vest prior to the end of the Service Period (December 31, 2015) and (ii) a participant must be employed by the Company (as defined below) on December 31, 2015 to be eligible to receive shares of Common Stock in respect of his or her Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied.
If a participant's employment with Boston Scientific and its Affiliates (the Company) terminates or there is a Change in Control before the end of the Performance Period (December 31, 2013), all of his or her Performance Share Units shall be forfeited in their entirety.
If a participant's employment with the Company terminates after the Performance Period but before the end of the Service Period, all of his or her Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied shall be forfeited in their entirety, except in connection with Retirement, death, Disability or upon a Change in Control as outlined below.
Participants on military, sick or other bona fide leave of absence on December 31, 2015 will not be deemed to have terminated employment with the Company if such absence does not exceed 180 days or, if longer, the period the participant retains the right by statute or by contract to return to employment with the Company.
If a participant's employment with the Company terminates due to Retirement, death, or Disability or there is a Change in Control after the end of the Performance Period but before the end of the Service Period, shares of Common Stock shall be issued in respect of the Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of this program have been satisfied within 70 days of the effective date of the termination or Change in Control, as applicable, on a prorated basis using the effective date of the participant's termination of employment or the Change in Control, as applicable (as described in this Section IV below). The number of prorated shares to be issued to the participant, if any, will be approved by the Committee at its next regular meeting.
The number of shares to be issued on a prorated basis shall be determined as follows: (# Performance Share Units as to which the performance criteria of the FCF Program have been satisfied) * ((# of months worked during the Service Period, rounded to nearest whole month) / 36).
Boston Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific)
Free Cash Flow Performance Share Program
(FCF Program)
Performance Period January 1, 2013 - December 31, 2013
The Committee has sole authority over administration and interpretation of the FCF Program and retains its right to exercise discretion as it sees fit, except that, with respect to Covered Employees, the Committee shall have no discretion to increase the number of shares of Common Stock in which a participant may vest above the amount described in Section III. The Committee may terminate, suspend or modify and if suspended, may reinstate with or without modification all or part of the FCF Program at any time, with or without notice to the participant. The Committee reserves the exclusive right to determine eligibility to participate in this FCF Program and to interpret all applicable terms and conditions, including eligibility criteria.
This document sets forth the terms of the FCF Program and is not intended to be a contract or employment agreement between the participant and the Company. As applicable, it is understood that both the participant and the Company have the right to terminate the participant's employment with the Company at any time, with or without cause and with or without notice, in acknowledgment of the fact that their employment relationship is at will.
To the extent section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) applies to any award under this FCF Program, the award shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Code section 409A. Where section 409A applies, in the case of any payment made on termination of employment, a termination of employment shall not be deemed to have occurred unless such termination is also a separation from service within the meaning of Code section 409A and, for purposes of any such provision, references to a termination, termination of employment, or like terms shall mean separation from service. Where section 409A applies, in the case of a payment made upon a Change in Control, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to have occurred unless there is a change in the ownership or effective control of Boston Scientific, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of Boston Scientific, as defined in Code section 409A. Where required by section 409A in the case of a specified employee (as determined under Code section 409A), payments on termination shall be made on the first business day of the seventh month following termination.

EXHIBIT 99.1
MICHAEL F. MAHONEY ASSUMES ROLE OF
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRESIDENT OF BOSTON SCIENTIFIC
Appointment Completes Company's CEO Transition Plan;
Mahoney Replaces Interim CEO William H. (Hank) Kucheman
Natick, Mass. (November 1, 2012)
- In an expected move that follows a previously announced leadership transition period, Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE:BSX) today named Michael F. Mahoney its new chief executive officer and president. Mahoney succeeds interim CEO William H. (Hank) Kucheman. Mahoney has also been appointed to the Boston Scientific Board of Directors. Both appointments are effective today.
Mahoney joined Boston Scientific as president in October 2011. For the past year, Mahoney's responsibilities have focused on the oversight of Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM), Endoscopy (GI and Pulmonary), and numerous corporate functions.
Mike is a dynamic leader, and having him at the helm for the long-term is exactly what Boston Scientific needs, said Pete Nicholas, Chairman of the Board and Co-Founder, Boston Scientific. Mike's ability to foster a team culture focused on winning, his strategic global view, and his passion for innovation have already begun to make a significant impact on the company.
Since he joined Boston Scientific, Mahoney has been instrumental in leading the company's business strategy in several important areas. Notable developments include key CRM regulatory approvals, the strategic acquisition of Cameron Health, Inc., reimbursement milestones for the Alair
Bronchial Thermoplasty System and an increased emphasis on global expansion.
Mahoney joined Boston Scientific from Johnson & Johnson, where he held a number of senior global leadership roles. The transition period was designed to accommodate Mahoney's post-employment obligations to Johnson & Johnson.
For the past year, I have worked with Boston Scientific colleagues all over the world and continue to be impressed by their commitment to innovation and dedication to developing medical devices that truly help transform patients' lives, said Mahoney, 47. I appreciated the opportunity to work side-by-side with Hank, who provided strong leadership during the transition period. I am looking forward to leading this company for many years to come.
With more than twenty-four years of healthcare experience, Mahoney is recognized as a driven leader with a proven ability to build strong teams that are passionate about winning. Prior to joining Boston Scientific, he was Worldwide Chairman of the Medical Devices and Diagnostics (MD&D) division of Johnson & Johnson, overseeing 50,000 employees and seven franchises. Previously, Mahoney served as Worldwide Group Chairman of Johnson & Johnson's DePuy franchise, a leading orthopedics and neuro-sciences business. Prior to joining Johnson & Johnson, Mahoney served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Global Healthcare Exchange (GHX), a leading provider of supply chain solutions and services that bring together hospitals, manufacturers, distributors and GPOs. Mahoney began his career at General Electric Medical Systems, where he spent twelve years successfully leading various GE Medical Systems business units in diagnostic imaging, Cardiology, and Healthcare Information technology. Mahoney earned a Finance degree from the University of Iowa and an M.B.A. from Wake Forest University.
Hank Kucheman, whose seat on the Boston Scientific Board of Directors has been assumed by Mahoney, will stay with the company as a top advisor and member of senior management through the end of 2012. In 2013, Kucheman will become a consultant to the company.
While we have endured sometimes dramatic market shifts over the past few years, Boston Scientific continues to deliver encouraging results. It has been an absolute honor to lead the company as we began executing a dynamic business strategy focused on the future, said Kucheman. This was the second time in our careers I've had the opportunity to work closely with Mike, and I know that Boston Scientific has a leader who is ready to continue the company's storied legacy of innovation.
Editors Note: For a high-resolution photo of Mahoney, please
CLICK HERE
or download at:
http://bostonscientific.mediaroom.com/image/MikeMahoney_2012.jpg
About Boston Scientific
Boston Scientific is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices that are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. For more information, please visit:
www.bostonscientific.com
.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like anticipate, expect, project, believe, plan, estimate, intend and similar words. These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our business plans and the plans of our executives. If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release. As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.
Factors that may cause such differences include, among other things: future economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation; financial market conditions; and future business decisions made by us, our executives and our competitors. All of these factors are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of them are beyond our control. For a further list and description of these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations, see Part I, Item
1A -
Risk Factors
in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we may update in Part II, Item 1A -
Risk Factors
in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q we have filed or will file hereafter. We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
CONTACT:    Denise Kaigler
508-650-8330 (office)
Media Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation
denise.kaigler@bsci.com
Steven Campanini
508-652-5740 (office)
Media Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation
steven.campanini@bsci.com
Michael Campbell
508-650-8023 (office)
Investor Relations
Boston Scientific Corporation
investor_relations@bsci.com


