FILE:JOY/JOY-8K-20020717170314.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549-1004 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DATE OF REPORT (DATE OF EARLIEST EVENT REPORTED): JULY 15, 2002 JOY GLOBAL INC. (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER) DELAWARE 1-9299 39-1566457 (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF [COMMISSION FILE NUMBER] (I.R.S. EMPLOYER INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION) IDENTIFICATION NUMBER) 100 E. Wisconsin Avenue Suite 2780 Milwaukee, WI 53202 (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES) Telephone: (626) 685-5600 (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS On July 15, 2002, the board of directors of our Company, Joy Global Inc., a Delaware corporation, declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (a "Right") for each outstanding share of common stock, par value $1.00 per share. The dividend is payable on August 5, 2002 to the stockholders of record on August 5, 2002. The press release issued by the Company announcing the declaration of the Rights dividend is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. For those interested in the specific terms of the Rights Agreement as made between our Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, a New York corporation, as rights agent, on July [16], 2002 (the "Rights Agreement"), we provide the following summary description. Please note, however, that this description is only a summary, and is not complete, and should be read together with the entire Rights Agreement, which has been filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. A copy of the Rights Agreement is available free of charge from our Company. The Rights. Our board of directors authorized the issuance of a Right with respect to each outstanding share of common stock on July 15, 2002. The Rights will initially trade with, and will be inseparable from, the common stock. The Rights are evidenced only by certificates that represent shares of common stock. New Rights will accompany any new shares of common stock we issue after August 5, 2002 until the distribution date described below. Exercise Price. Each Right will allow its holder to purchase from our Company one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock ("preferred share") for $100, once the Rights become exercisable. This portion of a preferred share will give the stockholder approximately the same dividend, voting, and liquidation rights as would one share of common stock. Prior to exercise, the Right does not give its holder any dividend, voting, or liquidation rights. Exercisability. The Rights will not be exercisable until o 10 days after the public announcement that a person or group has become an "Acquiring Person" by obtaining beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, or, if earlier, o 10 business days (or a later date determined by our board of directors before any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person) after a person or group begins a tender or exchange offer which, if completed, would result in that person or group becoming an Acquiring Person. We refer to the date when the Rights become exercisable as the "Distribution Date." Until that date, the common stock certificates will also evidence the Rights, and any transfer of shares of common stock will constitute a transfer of Rights. After the Distribution Date, the Rights will separate from the common stock and be evidenced by book-entry credits or by Rights certificates that we will mail to all eligible holders of common stock. Any Rights held by an Acquiring Person are null and void and may not be exercised. Our board of directors may reduce the threshold at which a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person from 15% to not less than 10% of the outstanding common stock.
Consequences of a Person or Group Becoming an Acquiring Person. o Flip In. If a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, all holders of Rights except the Acquiring Person may, for $100, purchase shares of our common stock with a market value of $200, based on the market price of the common stock prior to such acquisition. o Flip Over. If our Company is later acquired in a merger or similar transaction after the Distribution Date, all holders of Rights except the Acquiring Person may, for $100, purchase shares of the acquiring corporation with a market value of $200 based on the market price of the acquiring corporation's stock, prior to such merger. Preferred Share Provisions. Each one one-hundredth of a preferred share, if issued: o will not be redeemable. o will entitle holders to quarterly dividend payments of $.01, or an amount equal to the dividend paid on one share of common stock, whichever is greater. o will entitle holders upon liquidation either to receive $1 or an amount equal to the payment made on one share of common stock, whichever is greater. o will have the same voting power as one share of common stock. o if shares of our common stock are exchanged via merger, consolidation, or a similar transaction, will entitle holders to a per share payment equal to the payment made on one share of common stock. The value of one one-hundredth interest in a preferred share should approximate the value of one share of common stock. Expiration. The Rights will expire on August 5, 2012. Redemption. Our board of directors may redeem the Rights for $.01 per Right at any time before any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person. If our board redeems any Rights, it must redeem all of the Rights. Once the Rights are redeemed, the only right of the holders of Rights will be to receive the redemption price of $.01 per Right. The redemption price will be adjusted if we have a stock split or pay stock dividends on our common stock. Exchange. After a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, but before an Acquiring Person owns 50% or more of our outstanding common stock, our board of directors may extinguish the Rights by exchanging one share of common stock or an equivalent security for each Right, other than Rights held by the Acquiring Person. -2-
Anti-Dilution Provisions. Our board of directors may adjust the purchase price of the preferred shares, the number of preferred shares issuable and the number of outstanding Rights to prevent dilution that may occur from a stock dividend, a stock split or a reclassification of the preferred shares or common stock. No adjustments to the exercise price of less than 1% will be made. Amendments. The terms of the share purchase rights plan may be amended by our board of directors without the consent of the holders of the Rights. However, our board may not amend the share purchase rights plan to lower the threshold at which a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person to below 10% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, the board may not cause a person or group to become an Acquiring Person by lowering this threshold below the percentage interest that such person or group already owns. After a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, our board may not amend the agreement in a way that adversely affects holders of the Rights. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits. 4.1 Rights Agreement, dated as of July 16, 2002 between Joy Global Inc. and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, a New York corporation, as rights agent, including the Form of Certificate of Designations, the Form of Rights Certificate and the Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Shares attached thereto as Exhibits A, B, and C, respectively (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Joy Global Inc.'s Form 8-A filed on July 17, 2002). 99.1 Press Release dated July 16, 2002. -3-
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act or 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. JOY GLOBAL INC. Date: July 17, 2002 By: /s/ Eric B. Fondstad ---------------------- Eric B. Fondstad Secretary and Associate General Counsel
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number - ------- 4.1 Rights Agreement, dated as of July 16, 2002 between Joy Global Inc. and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, a New York corporation, as rights agent, including the Form of Certificate of Designations, the Form of Rights Certificate and the Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Shares attached thereto as Exhibits A, B, and C, respectively (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Joy Global Inc.'s Form 8-A filed on July 17, 2002). 99.1 Press Release dated July 16, 2002. -5-

JOY GLOBAL INC. Exhibit 99.1 Contact: Donald C. Roof Executive Vice President, CFO and Treasurer 414 319-8517 JOY GLOBAL INC. DECLARES DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION OF PREFERRED SHARE PURCHASE RIGHTS Milwaukee, WI - July 16, 2002 - The Board of Directors of Joy Global Inc. Monday, July 15, 2002, declared a dividend distribution of one Preferred Share Purchase Right on each outstanding share of Joy Global common stock. John Hanson, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Joy Global Inc., stated: "The Rights are designed to assure that all of Joy Global's stockholders receive fair and equal treatment in the event of any proposed takeover of the Company and to guard against abusive tactics to gain control of Joy Global without paying all stockholders a premium for that control. The Rights are not being adopted in response to any specific takeover threat, but are a response to the general takeover environment." The Rights are intended to enable all Joy Global stockholders to realize the long-term value of their investment in the Company. The Rights will not prevent a takeover, but should encourage anyone seeking to acquire the Company to negotiate with the Board prior to attempting a takeover. The Rights will be exercisable only if a person or group acquires 15% or more of Joy Global's common stock or commences a tender offer the consummation of which would result in ownership by a person or group of 15% or more of the common stock. Each Right will entitle stockholders to buy one one-hundredth of a share of a new series of junior participating preferred stock at an exercise price of $100. If a person or group acquires 15% or more of Joy Global's outstanding common stock, each Right will entitle its holder (other than such person or members of such group) to purchase, at the Right's then-current exercise price, a number of Joy Global's common shares having a market value of twice such price. In addition, if Joy Global is acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction after a person has acquired 15% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock, each Right will entitle its holder to purchase, at the Right's then-current exercise price, a number of the acquiring company's common shares having a market value of twice such price. The acquiring person will not be entitled to exercise these Rights. Prior to the acquisition by a person or group of beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the Company's common stock, the Rights are redeemable for one cent per Right at the option of the Board of Directors. 100 E Wisconsin Ave Suite 2780 Milwaukee WI 53202 - PO Box 554 Milwaukee WI 53201-0554 - 414/319/8501
The Board of Directors is also authorized to reduce the 15% thresholds referred to above to not less than 10%. The dividend distribution will be made on August 5, 2002, payable to stockholders of record on that date, and is not taxable to stockholders. The Rights expire on August 5, 2012. # # # # # Joy Global Inc. is a worldwide leader in manufacturing, servicing and distributing mining equipment, both for surface mines, through its P&H Mining Equipment division, and underground mines, through its Joy Mining Machinery division. 100 E Wisconsin Ave Suite 2780 Milwaukee WI 53202 - PO Box 554 Milwaukee WI 53201-0554 - 414/319/8501


