FILE:JOY/JOY-8K-20060424180217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]    Solicitation material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) underthe Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On April 18, 2006 a subsidiary of Joy Global Inc. entered into an agreement to acquire the net assets of the Stamler business from Oldenburg Group, Inc. Stamler produces products used primarily in underground and surface coal mining applications, including feeder breakers, battery haulers and continuous haulage systems. The purchase price will be $118 million in cash. The acquistion is subject to customary regulatory approvals.
ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On or about April 18, 2006, Joy Global Inc. entered into a Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, a Restricted Stock Unit Agreement and a Performance Award Agreement with each of its executive officers. The current executive officers of Joy Global are John N. Hanson, Donald C. Roof, Michael W. Sutherlin, John J. Fons, Mark E. Readinger and Dennis R. Winkleman.
Each Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement provides the applicable executive officer with the right to acquire shares of Joy Global common stock at an exercise price of $45.58 per share, the average of the high and low trading prices on the date of grant (before adjustment for the 3-for-2 stock split completed on December 12, 2005). One third of each grant vests and becomes exercisable on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the grant date. The options expire on the tenth anniversary of the grant date.
Each Restricted Stock Unit Agreement provides that the applicable executive officer will receive one share of Joy Global common stock for each Restricted Stock Unit awarded. One third of each grant vests and will be settled on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date.
Each Performance Award Agreement provides that the applicable executive officer will receive shares of Joy Global common stock (or its equivalent in cash, at the discretion of the Human Resources and Nominating Committee of Joy Global's board of directors) if the performance goal is met for the award cycle. The performance goal is average return on equity, and the award cycle consists of the period of three fiscal years that started on October 30, 2005 and ends on November 1, 2008.
(c)  Exhibits.   
   Press release dated April 19, 2006 of Joy Global Inc. announcing the agreement to acquire the net assets    of the Stamler business from Oldenburg Group, Inc.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
, a worldwide leader in high-productivity mining solutions, today reported it has entered into an agreement to acquire the net assets of the Stamler business from Oldenburg Group, Inc. Stamler produces products used primarily in underground and surface coal mining applications, including feeder breakers, battery haulers, and continuous haulage systems. The Stamler business is anticipated to have revenues of approximately $150 million in calendar 2006. The purchase price will be $118 million and other details of the transaction are not being disclosed at this time. The acquisition is subject to customary regulatory approvals.
Milwaukee, WI  April 19, 2006  Joy Global Inc. (Nasdaq: JOYG)
"We are pleased to have the opportunity to add the Stamler employees and their strong product offering to our business," commented John Hanson, chairman, president and CEO of Joy Global Inc. "This acquisition is consistent with our stated philosophy of adding "bolt-on" products and services to our existing businesses. The Stamler products, and in particular their line of feeder breakers, have strong market positions and long-standing reputations with the same mining customers that are served by Joy Mining Machinery and P&H Mining Equipment."
"We believe we can expand both the original equipment and aftermarket revenues of these product lines with our global presence and Life Cycle Management Strategies," added Mike Sutherlin, president of Joy Mining Machinery.
About the Company
Joy Global Inc. is a worldwide leader in manufacturing, servicing and distributing equipment for surface mining through P&H Mining Equipment and underground mining through Joy Mining Machinery.
Forward Looking Statements
The forward-looking statements in this press release are based on our current expectations and are made only as of the date of this press release. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect new information. We cannot assure you the projected results or events will be achieved. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, they are subject to change at any time. Such risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to: the duration of the recovery of coal and copper commodity markets; the cyclical nature of our original equipment businesses and the high costs of our manufacturing operations that can result in the underabsorption of manufacturing expenses; increased costs and constraints on the supply of major purchased items such as steel, castings, forgings and bearings can adversely affect profits and revenues; the large size and cost of our products that means that the timing of individual orders and shipments can cause fluctuations in our operating results; our significant international operations are subject to many uncertainties, meaning that a reduction in international sales or unfavorable change in foreign exchange rates could affect our financial results; the highly competitive environment that we operate in means that the actions of our competitors can affect our financial performance; regulations affecting the mining industry or electric utilities may adversely impact demand for our products; our growth may be hindered if we are unable to hire or retain qualified employees; unexpected adverse results in litigation or arbitration may reduce our profits; and other risks, uncertainties and cautionary factors set forth in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


