FILE:JOY/JOY-8K-20070419175822.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]    Solicitation material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) underthe Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 18, 2007, Joy Global Inc. announced that its board of directors had elected James H. Woodward, Jr. as the company's chief financial officer and treasurer and elected Sean D. Major as the company's general counsel.
As noted in the company's current report on Form 8-K filed at the time he joined Joy Global on January 22, 2007, Mr. Woodward, 54, joins Joy Global from JLG Industries, Inc., where he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer from 2000 until its recent acquisition. Prior to JLG, he was with Dana Corporation for 18 years and served in a series of increasingly senior financial and operational roles, including vice president and corporate controller. Woodward holds a BA degree from Michigan State University and began his career with Deloitte & Touche.
As previously announced, Donald C. Roof, the company's executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer since 2001, will retire from the company in mid-2007.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
today announced that its board of directors elected James H. Woodward, Jr. as the company's chief financial officer and treasurer and elected Sean D. Major as the company's general counsel. Both Mr. Woodward and Mr. Major joined the company as executive vice presidents in January 2007.
Milwaukee, WI  April 18, 2007  Joy Global Inc. (Nasdaq: JOYG)
Woodward, 54, joins Joy Global from JLG Industries, Inc., where he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer from 2000 until its recent acquisition. Prior to JLG, he was with Dana Corporation for 18 years and served in a series of increasingly senior financial and operational roles, including vice president and corporate controller. Woodward holds a BA degree from Michigan State University and began his career with Deloitte & Touche.
Major, 43, joins the company from Johnson Controls, Inc., where he held a series of increasingly senior legal positions and most recently served as assistant general counsel and assistant secretary. He began his corporate career at Abbott Laboratories after spending seven years in private practice with law firms in Chicago and Tokyo. He holds a BA degree in Economics from DePauw University, a JD degree from Indiana University School of Law and an MBA from Northwestern University.
"Jim and Sean have gone through an extensive orientation program to meet our customers, visit our facilities around the world, and generally get a solid grounding in our markets and our business. They are now more than ready to assume their respective responsibilities," noted Mike Sutherlin, president and CEO. "I am pleased to have people of their experience, capability and caliber on my team. We now have a team in place that is ready and able to lead this business through the next phase of its growth."
As previously announced, Donald C. Roof, the company's executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer since 2001, will retire from the company in mid-2007. "Don has been a great asset to this business, and played an instrumental role in our improving performance over the past several years," noted Mike Sutherlin. "Don has continued his tireless efforts during the transition period, and he led a smooth and orderly transfer of the CFO position. I want to thank Don for his contributions and wish him all the best in his retirement."
Joy Global Inc. is a worldwide leader in manufacturing, servicing and distributing equipment for surface mining through P&H Mining Equipment and underground mining through Joy Mining Machinery.


