FILE:JOY/JOY-8K-20091119182326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Appointment of Certain Officers
Mr. Bakers annual salary will be $576,000 and he will participate in the Companys annual bonus plan, with a target bonus of 70% of base salary and payout dependant upon achievement of individual, P&H, and Company performance objectives.  To offset forfeited incentive compensation from his prior employer, Mr. Baker will receive a one-time lump sum payment of $250,000 within 30 days of his start date.  In connection with his appointment, and subject to the approval of the Human Resources and Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors at its December 7, 2009 meeting, the Company expects to provide Mr. Baker with initial equity awards under the Joy Global Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Program.  Consistent with the authorized terms of its offer of employment, the Company expects Mr. Bakers initial equity awards to consist of 25,000 stock options, 5,000 restricted stock units, and 5,000 performance shares.
Mr. Baker will be eligible to receive certain perquisites that the Company makes available to its executive officers and the Company anticipates that Mr. Baker will sign change in control and indemnification agreements with terms substantially identical to those signed by the Companys other executive officers.  In addition, if Mr. Baker is terminated within the first year of his employment, other than for willful misconduct, he will receive 12 months of severance pay.  Mr. Baker also will be eligible to participate in employee benefits plans that are generally available to the Companys salaried employees.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
JOY GLOBAL INC.
Contact at the Company:
Michael W. Sutherlin
President and Chief Executive Officer
414319-
(
)
850
1
today announced that on November 30, 2009, Randal W. Baker will join the company as president and chief operating officer of its surface mining equipment business, P&H Mining Equipment, and executive vice president of Joy Global Inc.
Milwaukee, WI  November 19, 2009  Joy Global Inc.
(Nasdaq: JOYG)
Mr. Baker joins Joy Global from CNH Global N.V., where he was president and chief executive officer of their agricultural equipment business, which sold products under the Case IH brand name.  Prior to joining CNH, he spent fourteen years in a series of progressively senior leadership roles in the mining equipment industry, which included management positions with Tamrock Corporation, the Construction & Mining Division of Ingersoll-Rand, and Komatsu.  At Komatsu, Mr. Baker was vice president and general manager of the Mining Division.
Randy brings us a tremendous balance of industry experience, global business leadership and drive for performance, said Mike Sutherlin, president and chief executive officer.  I know he will make a quick start and have a long term impact on our business.  As such, Randy is a major addition to a strong management team that will continue to deliver leading performance to both our customers and our shareholders.
About Joy Global Inc.
Joy Global Inc (Nasdaq: JOYG) is a worldwide leader in manufacturing, servicing and distributing equipment for surface mining through P&H Mining Equipment and underground mining through Joy Mining Machinery.
JOYG-G
 
 
 


