FILE:JOY/JOY-8K-20111025092556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On October 24, 2011, Joy Global Inc. (the Company) completed the sale of the drilling products business of its wholly owned subsidiary, LeTourneau Technologies, Inc., to Cameron International Corporation for $375 million in cash,subject to certain post-closing adjustments.  The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the divestiture to fund in part the previously disclosed purchase of approximately 41.1% of the outstanding common stock of International Mining Machinery Holdings Limited and the related tender offer, with any remaining proceeds to be used for general corporate purposes.
 
 
A news release dated October 24, 2011 announcing the closing of the divestiture is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the Undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
News Release
Contact:
Michael S. Olsen
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
+1 414-319-8507
 
 
, a worldwide leader in high-productivity mining solutions, today announced that it has completed the transaction to sell the drilling products business of its LeTourneau Technologies Inc. (LeTourneau) business to Cameron International Corporation (Cameron) (NYSE: CAM) for approximately $375 million in cash, subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
Milwaukee, WI  October 24, 2011  Joy Global Inc.
(NASDAQ: JOYG) (Joy Global)
 
Bank of America Merrill Lynch served as exclusive financial advisor to Joy Global on this transaction.  Covington & Burling LLP served as legal advisor.
 
 
About Joy Global
 
Joy Global Inc. is a worldwide leader in manufacturing, servicing and distributing equipment for surface mining through P&H Mining Equipment and underground mining through Joy Mining Machinery.
 
 
JOYG-G
 
 


