FILE:JOY/JOY-8K-20111107130014.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                
On November 3, 2011, Joy Global Inc. (the Company) provided notice to the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) that the Company intends to voluntarily withdraw its common stock, par value $1.00 per share, from trading on NASDAQ and to list its common stock for trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol JOY.  The Company expects that trading will commence on the NYSE on December 6, 2011.
The Companys common shares will continue to trade under the ticker symbol JOYG on NASDAQ until the transfer of listing to the NYSE is completed.
 
 
A news release dated November 4, 2011 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Contact:
Michael S. Olsen
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
+1 414-319-8507
 
, a worldwide leader in high-productivity mining solutions, today announced the pending transfer of the listing of its common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).  The Company expects to begin trading on the NYSE on December 6, 2011, under the new ticker symbol JOY, and will ring the opening bell that morning.  Until the transfer is complete, the Companys common stock will continue to trade under the ticker symbol JOYG on NASDAQ.
Milwaukee, WI  November 4, 2011  Joy Global Inc.
(NASDAQ: JOYG) (Joy Global)
 
Michael W. Sutherlin, Chief Executive Officer of Joy Global Inc., commented, Joy Global has established itself as a global leader in mining equipment and we operate in over 120 facilities in 17 countries around the world.  The NYSE gives us the recognition, reach and resources to better serve our needs as we continue to focus our growth on the international markets.  As a result, it is another step in creating long-term value for our shareholders.
 
We are delighted Joy Global has decided to list on the New York Stock Exchange, said Scott Cutler, NYSE Euronext EVP and Head of Listings, Americas.  We are committed to a long-term partnership with Joy Global and its shareholders, and to providing the superior liquidity, services and visibility associated with listing on the NYSE.
 
About Joy Global
Joy Global Inc. is a worldwide leader in manufacturing, servicing and distributing equipment for surface mining through P&H Mining Equipment and underground mining through Joy Mining Machinery.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Terms such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, indicate, may be, objective, plan, predict, will, will be, and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.  The forward-looking statements in this press release are based on our current expectations and are made only as of the date of this press release and involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results that may be expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements contained in this press release to reflect new information.
 
JOYG-G
 
 
 


