FILE:JOY/JOY-8K-20111206164201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 6, 2011, the board of directors of Joy Global Inc. (the Company) elected John T. Gremp as a director, to serve a term expiring following the election and qualification of his successor at the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders.  Mr. Gremp is the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of FMC Technologies, Inc., which designs, manufactures and services systems and equipment for the oil and gas industry.  In connection with the appointment of Mr. Gremp, the board of directors designated him as an independent director under New York Stock Exchange listing standards.  Mr. Gremps committee assignments will be determined at a later date.
Mr. Gremp will receive compensation and be subject to indemnification for serving as a member of the board of directors consistent with the Companys normal arrangements for non-employee directors, as described in the Companys 2011 proxy statement.  As of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K, neither Mr. Gremp nor any of his immediate family members is a party, either directly or indirectly, to any transaction that would be required to be reported under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
A copy of the Companys press release regarding the election of Mr. Gremp is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
On December 6, 2011, the Company completed the previously announced transfer of the listing of its common stock to the New York Stock Exchange from the Nasdaq Global Select Market.  On such date, the Companys common stock commenced trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol JOY.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
JOY GLL INC.
OBA
, a worldwide leader in high-productivity mining solutions, announced today that John T. Gremp, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of FMC Technologies, Inc. (NYSE:FTI), has been elected to its board of directors.
Milwaukee, WI  December 6, 2011  Joy Global Inc.
(NYSE: JOY)
John will be a very valuable addition to our board, said Mike Sutherlin, Joy Globals Chief Executive Officer.  His extensive experience in the global energy industry, in the manufacture and service support of mission critical capital equipment, and in global operations will complement and expand the capability of our board. This will be especially important as we continue to look to the international markets for our main growth opportunities.
Prior to assuming his current role at FMC Technologies, Mr. Gremp was President and Chief Operating Officer from 2010 to 2011 and Executive Vice President of FMC Technologies Energy Systems business from 2007 to 2010.  His leadership expertise stems from a wide range of management positions held over his more than 30 years with the company, including Vice President of the Energy Production Systems business from 2004 through 2006, General Manager of the Fluid Power Division beginning in 1995 and as General Manager of the Asia and Middle East Division during the early 1990s.  He has also held various plant, operational and regional management positions since joining the business in 1975 as a financial analyst.
Mr. Gremp earned his Bachelors Degree in Business from Lewis and Clark College and an MBA from the University of California, Berkeley.  He serves on the Board of Directors of the Petroleum Equipment Suppliers Association and the Offshore Energy Center.  Mr. Gremp is also a member of the Defense Advisory Board for Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve.
About the Company
Joy Global Inc. is a worldwide leader in manufacturing, servicing and distributing equipment for surface mining through P&H Mining Equipment and underground mining through Joy Mining Machinery.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Joy Global, Inc.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Terms such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "indicate," "may be," "objective," "plan," "predict," "will," "will be," and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are based on our current expectations and are made only as of the date of this press release and involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results that may be expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements contained in this press release to reflect new information.
 
 
JOY-G
 
 


