FILE:JOY/JOY-8K-20110902144114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of  the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On June 22, 2011, Joy Global Inc. (Joy Global) filed a Current Report on Form 8-K reporting, among other things, that it had completed the acquisition of LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. (LeTourneau) from Rowan Companies, Inc. (Rowan), in accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated May 13, 2011, between Joy Global and Rowan (the Agreement).  Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, Joy Global purchased from Rowan all of the outstanding shares of LeTourneau for an aggregate amount of $1.1 billion, subject to adjustment as provided in the Agreement.  The purchase price was funded through available cash resources and a new $500 million credit agreement.  The Company is filing this Amendment No. 1 to its Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 22, 2011 in order to provide the financial statements required by this Item 2.01 with respect to LeTourneau.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Financial statements of business acquired.
Consolidated Financial Statements of LeTourneau as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 (audited) and Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of LeTourneau as of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, and for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 (unaudited), and related notes, are filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
(b) Pro forma financial information.
Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet as of April 29, 2011, Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statement of Income for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2010 and the six months ended April 29, 2011, showing the pro forma effects of Joy Globals acquisition of LeTourneau, and related notes, are filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the Undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We consent to the incorporation by reference in registration statements on Form S-8 (File Nos. 333-173214, 333-149558, 333-121570 and 333-71024) of Joy Global, Inc. of our report dated April 27, 2011, relating to the consolidated financial statements of LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Rowan Companies, Inc. (the Parent) (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of the Company from the separate records maintained by the Parent) appearing in the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of Joy Global, Inc. dated September 2, 2011.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Houston, Texas
September 2, 2011
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
LeTourneau
Technologies, Inc. and
Subsidiaries
Consolidated Financial Statements as of
and for the Year Ended December 31, 2010, and
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm
 
 
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Management of
Rowan Companies, Inc., owner of LeTourneau Technologies, Inc.
Houston, Texas
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Rowan Companies, Inc. (the Parent) as of December 31, 2010, and the related consolidated statement of operations, comprehensive income and parent company equity, and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2010. The Company has historically been included in consolidated financial statements of Rowan Companies, Inc. (the Parent) and is under common ownership and common management of the Parent. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared from the separate records maintained by the Parent and may not necessarily be indicative of the conditions that would have existed or the results of operations if the Company had been operated as an unaffiliated entity. Portions of certain expenses represent allocations made from and are applicable to the Parent as a whole.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Houston, Texas
April 27, 2011
 
 
 
 
LETOURNEAU TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
- 2 -
 
LETOURNEAU TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
- 3 -
 
LETOURNEAU TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND PARENT COMPANY EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
- 4 -
 
 
LETOURNEAU TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
- 5 -
 
LETOURNEAU TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries, hereinafter referred to as LeTourneau or the Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Rowan Companies, Inc, hereinafter referred to as Rowan or the Parent.  The consolidated financial statements of the Company have historically been included in the consolidated financial statements of Rowan.
Description of Business
LeTourneau is headquartered in Houston, Texas, and designs, manufactures and sells equipment and related aftermarket parts and services for the mining and drilling industries. LeTourneau has three operating segments: Drilling Products, Mining Products, and Steel Products, which operate in three primary facilities in Longview and Houston, Texas, and Vicksburg, Mississippi.
The Drilling Products segment built the first jack-up drilling rig in 1955, and has since designed or built more than 200 units, including 26 of Rowans 28 jack-ups. This segment is currently constructing for Rowan the last of three class jack-ups at LeTourneaus Vicksburg, Mississippi, shipyard for delivery in the third quarter of 2011.  Additionally, this segment provided the rig kit (design, legs, jacking system, cranes and other equipment) for Rowans three (or ) class jack-ups built by Keppel AmFELS, Inc., which were delivered in 2010, and for Rowans fourth and final , which will be delivered in 2011.  See Note 8 for further information on related-party transactions.
240-C
Super 116E
EXL
EXL
Drilling Products also designs and manufactures primary drilling equipment in a wide range of sizes, including mud pumps, top drives, drawworks and rotary tables, as well as variable-speed motors, variable-frequency drive systems and other electrical components for the oil and gas, marine, mining and dredging industries.
The Mining Products segment features heavy equipment such as large wheeled front-end loaders, diesel-electric powered log stackers and related aftermarket parts and services for the mining and forestry industries. LeTourneau loaders are generally used in coal, gold, copper, diamond and iron ore mines, and utilize a proprietary diesel-electric drive system with digital controls. This system allows large, mobile equipment to stop, start, and reverse direction without gear shifting and high-maintenance braking, and is more fuel-efficient than mechanical systems.
The Steel Products segment features a mini mill in Longview, Texas which recycles scrap and produces carbon, alloy and tool steel plate products for internal needs as well as external customers.
We currently have no further plans for rig construction at our Vicksburg shipyard following the delivery of Rowans third class rig, the in 2011, but may continue to use the facility for other operations.  Absent additional orders or sufficient prospects for future work, the activities at the facility would be significantly reduced at that time, in which case we would incur additional costs such as employee severance, among other charges.  Closing or significantly reducing activity levels at the facility could result in the incurrence of cash charges ranging from $8 million to $10 million.
240C-
Joe Douglas,
 The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).  Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation
 
- 6 -
 
The Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the use of carve-out accounting procedures, whereby certain assets, liabilities and expenses recognized or incurred by the Parent on behalf of LeTourneau, have been allocated to reflect the financial results of LeTourneau for the periods presented.  Allocations of certain Parent administrative expenses were based on a percentage of revenues, which management believes represents a reasonable methodology. See Note 8 for further information.
Historically, LeTourneau has been included in Rowans consolidated tax return; however, for purposes of these carve-out Consolidated Financial Statements, income tax expense and related tax assets and liabilities were determined as if LeTourneau filed a separate income tax return.  See Note 5 for further information.
Effective January 1, 2008, Rowan began allocating interest expense to LeTourneau at an estimated market rate applied to an average outstanding intercompany balance. No corporate debt or interest expense was allocated to LeTourneau from Rowan prior to 2008.  Rowans net investment in LeTourneau is shown as a component of parent company equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and includes Rowans initial investment in LeTourneau and amounts due to/from LeTourneau resulting from products and services provided and cash transfers. See Note 8 for further information.
The Consolidated Financial Statements may not be indicative of the Companys future performance and do not necessarily reflect what its consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been had LeTourneau operated as an independent company during the periods presented.
 Cash consists of bank deposits and imprest accounts  see Note 8 for further information regarding the Companys cash management.
Statement of Cash Flows
Accrued capital expenditures as of December 31, 2010, were not material.  If material, such amounts would be excluded from capital expenditures in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows until paid in the following year.
 Revenues and related costs are generally recognized when title passes as products are shipped. Revenues from long-term manufacturing projects such as rigs and rig kits are recognized on a percentage-of-completion basis using contract costs incurred relative to total estimated contract costs.  A rig kit includes selected rig components and parts manufactured over a nine-to-twelve month period in the Longview, Texas facility. A rig construction project typically occurs over a two-year period at the Vicksburg, Mississippi, shipyard and includes a significant labor cost component for fabrication and assembly.  Costs are recorded separately for each project, and by significant activity or component within each project, and include materials issued to the project, labor expenses that are incurred directly for the project and overhead expenses that are allocated across all projects at consistent rates per labor hour.  Incurred costs include only those that measure project work performed.  Material costs incurred, for example, do not include materials purchased but remaining in inventory. Only when such materials have been used in production on the project are they included in incurred project costs. The determination of total estimated project costs is performed monthly based upon then-current information. This process involves an evaluation of progress towards project milestones and an assessment of work left to complete each project activity or component, and is based on physical observations by project managers and engineers. An estimate of project costs is then developed for each significant activity or component based upon the assessment of project status, actual costs incurred to date and outstanding commitments for project materials and services. The Company does not recognize any estimated profit until such projects are at least 10% complete, though full provision is made immediately for any anticipated losses.
Revenue and Expense Recognition and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
 
- 7 -
 
The following table summarizes the status of the Companys long-term construction projects in progress at December 31, 2010.  Payments, revenues and costs are cumulative from inception of the contract through December 31, 2010.  Payments include those received for projects not yet begun and completed projects with outstanding collections (in thousands):
Deposits from customers for sales and services other than those recognized under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting are recorded in Current liabilities  Deferred revenues, and are recognized as revenue at the time of shipment.
Service revenues, consisting of repairs, training and other, are recognized at the time of billing, and totaled $33.1 million in 2010.
Inherent in the Companys revenue recognition policy is the determination of collectability, and LeTourneaus allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated to cover the risk of loss related to accounts receivable. The allowance is maintained at a level that LeTourneau considers appropriate based upon historical and other factors that predict collectability, including write-offs, recoveries and credit losses, monitoring of credit quality and projected economic and market conditions. The following table sets forth the changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts in 2010 (in thousands):
Products and services provided by LeTourneau to the Parent were recorded as sales based upon negotiated terms. Such products and services reflected terms and conditions and rates of compensation which approximated those that were customarily included in third-party contracts for similar items. LeTourneau sales to the Parent are recorded with monthly billings and settlement as a component of Parent company investment within Parent Company Equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 8 for further discussion.
 
- 8 -
 
 Inventories are carried at the lower of average cost or estimated net realizable value.  Costs include labor, material and an allocation of production overhead.  Management regularly reviews inventory for obsolescence and reserves for items unlikely to be sold in order to reduce the cost to its estimated realizable value.  Management determines valuation allowances or reserves for inventory based on historical usage of inventory on hand, assumptions about future demand based on market conditions, and estimates about potential alternative uses, which are usually limited.  Inventories generally consist of spare parts, work in process, and raw materials to support ongoing manufacturing operations and the Companys installed base of drilling, mining and forestry equipment.  Customers rely on the Company to stock these specialized items to ensure that their equipment can be repaired and serviced in a timely manner.  The estimated carrying values of inventories therefore ultimately depend on demand driven by oil, natural gas and other commodity prices, general economic conditions worldwide and the potential obsolescence of inventories on hand, among other factors.
Inventories
The following table summarizes the changes in the Companys inventory reserves for 2010 (in thousands):
In early 2010, the Drilling Products segment performed an assessment of its Houston-based raw materials and supplies inventories.  Management determined that a significant number of items had experienced some level of deterioration such that they were not within tolerance of original specifications or no longer conformed to minimum quality standards.  Full provision was made for the cost of items that could not be efficiently reworked.  In addition, as the Company continued to work off existing product backlog during the period, the quantity and age of slow-moving inventory items was continuing to grow.  Management expected this trend would continue for the foreseeable future.  As a result, the Company recorded a lower-of-cost-or-market adjustment of approximately $42.0 million and recorded a corresponding charge to expense in the first quarter of 2010.
 LeTourneau provides depreciation under the straight-line method from the date an asset is placed into service until it is sold or becomes fully depreciated based on the following estimated lives and salvage values:
Property and Depreciation
Expenditures for new property or enhancements to existing property are capitalized and depreciated over the assets estimated useful life. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. As assets are sold or retired, the cost and related accumulated depreciation amounts are removed and any resulting gain or loss is included in the Companys results of operations. See Note 7 for details of the Companys depreciation and amortization, capital expenditures and repairs and maintenance by operating segment. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever circumstances indicate their carrying amounts may not be recoverable, based upon estimated future cash flows. No impairments were recognized during 2010.
 
- 9 -
 
 At December 31, 2010, the Company had intangible assets subject to amortization totaling $632,000. Intangible assets consist of engineering drawings and patents, which are being amortized over estimated useful lives of 15 years and 17 years, respectively. Amortization expense was $130,000 in 2010, and is currently expected to be the same amount in each of the next five years.
Intangible Assets
 Environmental remediation costs are accrued using estimates of future monitoring, testing and clean-up costs where it is probable that such costs will be incurred. Estimates of future monitoring, testing and clean-up costs and assessments of the probability that such costs will be incurred incorporate many factors, including (i) approved monitoring, testing and/or remediation plans, (ii) ongoing communications with environmental regulatory agencies (iii) the expected duration of remediation measures, (iv) historical monitoring, testing and clean-up costs and (v) current and anticipated operational plans and manufacturing processes. Ongoing environmental compliance costs are expensed as incurred, and expenditures to mitigate or prevent future environmental contamination are capitalized. Environmental reserves at December 31, 2010, were not material. See Note 6 for further information regarding the Companys environmental obligations.
Environmental Costs
 LeTourneau is included in Rowans consolidated federal income tax returns whereby Rowan pays all federal income taxes on the Companys behalf and is entitled to any related tax savings. Current income taxes have been provided on a separate return basis and any difference from amounts paid to/received from Rowan have been recorded as an adjustment to Parent company equity. LeTourneau recognizes deferred income tax assets and liabilities for the estimated future tax consequences of differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Valuation allowances are provided against deferred tax assets that are not likely to be realized. See Note 5 for further information regarding the Companys income tax assets and liabilities.
Income Taxes
 Rowans manufacturing operations offer warranties and parts guarantees extending for stipulated periods of ownership or hours of usage, whichever occurs first.  In most cases, dealers of the Companys products perform the warranty work.  For drilling equipment, the Company generally performs warranty work directly and accrues for estimated future warranty costs based on historical experience.  Liabilities for product warranties are included in Accrued liabilities  Taxes and other on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Product Warranties
The following table summarizes the changes in the Companys estimated liability for warranty costs for 2010.  Higher costs in 2010 were primarily in connection with the Drilling Systems segment; management does not expect such higher costs to continue (in thousands):
 Accrued compensation and related employee costs included accrued vacation pay of $4.8 million at December 31, 2010. See Note 4 for further information regarding the Companys benefit plans.
Other Current Liabilities
 
- 10 -
 
 The Company sponsors defined benefit pension plans for eligible retirees. The measurement of liabilities related to these plans is based on managements assumptions related to future events, including expected return on plan assets and the discount rate, which reflects the rate at which benefits could be effectively settled on the measurement date. The Company determines its discount rate based on a pension discount curve, and the rate represents the single rate that, if applied to every year of projected benefits payments, would result in the same discounted value as the array of rates that comprise the pension discount curve.  Actual pension plan asset investment performance will either reduce or increase unamortized pension losses at the end of any year, which ultimately affects future pension costs.  See Note 4 for further information regarding the Companys retirement benefit plans.
Retirement Plans
In accordance with ASC Topic 718  (ASC 718), the Company determines the fair value of stock options and stock appreciation rights on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model.  Restricted stock grants are valued at the volume-weighted average price of Rowan common stock on the date of grant.  The Company recognizes the fair value as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award based on awards ultimately expected to vest.
Share-based Compensation 
Compensation  Stock Compensation
The measurement of fair values using an option-pricing model is affected by the stock price on the grant date as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables.  These variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behavior.  Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable.  See Note 3 for additional information related to the Companys share-based compensation.
 The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for all of the Companys operations.  Non-U.S. subsidiaries translate their nonmonetary assets at exchange rates prevailing at the time they were acquired; monetary assets and liabilities are translated at year-end rates.  Resulting translation gains and losses and foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included in other income on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations.  In order to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, the Company generally requires customer payments to be in U.S. dollars and limits foreign currency holdings to the extent they are needed to pay liabilities denominated in such currencies.  The Company recognized net foreign currency gains of $5.0 million in 2010, primarily attributable to operations in Australia and Brazil.
Foreign Currency Transactions
 At December 31, 2010, the carrying amounts of the Companys receivables and payables approximated their fair values due to the short maturity of such financial instruments.
Fair Values of Financial Instruments
 Comprehensive income (loss) is comprised of net income (loss) and other comprehensive income (loss). During 2010, the Company recognized other comprehensive income relating to pension liabilities, the components of which were as follows, net of income taxes (in thousands):
Comprehensive Income (Loss)
 
- 11 -
 
See Note 4 for further information regarding the Companys pension liabilities.
 There have been no new accounting standards issued that are expected to have a material effect on the Companys financial statements upon adoption.
New Accounting Standards
LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. Incentive Plan
In December 2010, the Company adopted the LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. Incentive Plan, effective January 1, 2011 (the LeT LTIP), under which the compensation committee of the board of directors of Rowan (the Compensation Committee) may grant to Company employees stock appreciation rights (LeT SARs) and restricted stock units (LeT RSUs) denominated in common stock of LeTourneau.
LeT SARs confer on the grantee the right to receive cash or shares of LeTourneau, at the discretion of the Compensation Committee, of an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value per share on the exercise date over the fair market value per share on the grant date with respect to a specific number of shares of LeTourneau common stock.  LeT RSUs are rights to receive cash, or shares of LeTourneau stock at the discretion of the Compensation Committee, equal in value to the fair market value of a specific number of shares of common stock of LeTourneau.
There were no awards granted under the LeT LTIP as of December 31, 2010.
On January 1, 2011, the Company awarded LeT SARs and LeT RSUs to 50 employees with a fair value totaling $5.3 million.  Fifty percent of the total grant was in the form of LeT SARs, and fifty percent was in the form of LeT RSUs.  The SARs vest pro rata over a three-year service period and will be settled in cash or stock only after a change in control of LeTourneau other than a spin-off.  The actual number of LeT RSUs that vest is subject to the progress towards achieving specific performance measures over a one-year performance period.  The RSUs vest over a three-year period, such that one-third is vested after the performance period is complete (and the adjustment of the award from 75% to 125% depending on achievement of the long-term goals underlying the award), and one-third vests on the second anniversary of the grant, and the final one-third vests on the third anniversary of the grant.  The RSUs will be settled only after a change in control.  For purposes of the RSUs, unlike the SARS, a spin-off is considered a change in control.
Total fair value of $5.3 million, less expected forfeitures, will be amortized over a three-year vesting period. Expense will be recognized for only those awards that actually vest due to satisfying the service requirements and, in the case of RSUs, for progress towards meeting the performance goals.
2009 Rowan Companies, Inc. Incentive Plan
Certain LeTourneau employees have been awarded stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and/or performance-based awards under the 2009 Rowan Companies, Inc. Incentive Plan (the Rowan LTIP) or predecessor plans.
Restricted stock, stock appreciation rights and options granted to Company employees under the Rowan LTIP generally have multiple vesting dates.  The Company recognizes compensation cost for such awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award.  Share-based compensation cost for the year ended December 31, 2010, charged to expense is presented below (in thousands):
 
- 12 -
 
Restricted stock represents a full share of Rowan common stock issued with a restrictive legend that prevents its sale until the restriction is later removed.  In general, the shares vest and the restrictions lapse in one-third increments each year over a three-year service period.  The Company measures compensation based on the market price of the common stock on the date of grant and the number of shares expected to vest.  Restricted stock activity for the year ended December 31, 2010, is summarized below:
Restricted Stock
The fair value of shares vested (measured at the vesting date) in 2010 was $364,000.  As of December 31, 2010, unrecognized compensation cost for nonvested restricted stock totaled $536,000, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8 years.
Employees may be granted awards under the Rowan LTIP in which payment is contingent upon the achievement of certain market or performance-based conditions over a specified period of time.
Performance-Based Awards
Performance-based award activity for the year ended December 31, 2010, is summarized below:
Stock options granted to employees generally become exercisable in one-third or one-quarter annual increments over a three or four-year service period at a price not less than 100% of the market price of the Companys common stock on the date of grant.
Stock Options and Appreciation Rights
Stock appreciation rights under the Rowan LTIP (SARs) give the holder the right to receive, at no cost, shares of Rowan common stock, or cash at the discretion of Rowans Compensation Committee, equal in value to the excess of the market price of the stock on the date of exercise over the strike price, which is the market price of the stock on the date of grant.  SARs granted to employees become exercisable in one-third annual increments over a three-year service period.
 
- 13 -
 
Unexercised options and SARs expire ten years after the grant date.
Fair values of options and SARs granted are determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.  No options or SARs were granted to Company employees in 2010.
Stock option activity for the year ended December 31, 2010, is summarized below:
The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $175,000 in 2010.  As of December 31, 2010, all required compensation cost related to stock options granted had been previously expensed.
SARs activity for the year ended December 31, 2010, is summarized below:
As of December 31, 2010, unrecognized compensation cost related to SARs totaled $55,000, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.3 years.
LeTourneau sponsors a defined-benefit pension plan covering substantially all of its employees hired on or before July 1, 2009, and an executive defined benefit pension plan covering named executives. The Company has amended the plans to freeze benefits as of December 31, 2010, which resulted in a curtailment gain of $5.4 million at that date.  Under the amendment, no individuals will become members of the plans after such date, and all participants in the plans as of that date will no longer accrue additional benefits.
 
- 14 -
 
The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan assets during 2010 and the funded status and weighted-average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation at year end (in thousands):
The accumulated benefit obligation for all plans was $73.4 million at December 31, 2010.
 
- 15 -
 
Each of the Companys defined benefit pension plans has obligations that exceed the fair value of plan assets.
The Company expects that the following amounts, which are classified in accumulated other comprehensive loss, a component of Parent company equity, will be recognized in net periodic benefit cost in 2011 (in thousands):
The components of net periodic pension cost for 2010 and the weighted-average assumptions used to determine such costs were as follows (dollars in thousands):
The pension plans investment objectives for fund assets are: to achieve over the life of the plans a return equal to the plans expected investment return or the inflation rate plus 3%, whichever is greater; to invest assets in a manner such that contributions are minimized and future assets are available to fund liabilities; to maintain liquidity sufficient to pay benefits when due; and to diversify among asset classes so that assets earn a reasonable return with an acceptable level of risk.  The plans employ several active managers with proven long-term records in their specific investment discipline.
 
- 16 -
 
Target allocations among asset categories and the fair values of each category of plan assets as of December 31, 2010, classified by level within the fair value hierarchy (as described in GAAP) is presented below (dollars in thousands).  The plans will periodically reallocate assets in accordance with the allocation targets, after giving consideration to the expected level of cash required to pay current benefits and plan expenses:
Assets in the large cap growth, large cap value, small cap growth, and small cap value categories include investments in common and preferred stocks (and equivalents such as American Depository Receipts and convertible bonds) held through separate accounts, commingled funds and an institutional mutual fund.  Assets in the international category include investments in a broad range of international equity securities, including both developed and emerging markets, and are held primarily through a commingled fund.  Securities in both the aggregate and core plus fixed income categories include U.S. government, corporate, mortgage- and asset-backed securities and Yankee bonds, and both categories target an average credit rating of A or better at all times.  Individual securities in the aggregate fixed income category must be investment grade or above at the time of purchase, whereas securities in the core plus category may have a rating of B or above.  Additionally, the core plus category may invest in foreign securities.  Assets in the aggregate and core plus fixed income categories are held primarily through a commingled fund and an institutional mutual fund, respectively.  The real estate category includes investments in pooled funds whose objectives are diversified equity investments in income-producing properties.  Each pooled fund should provide broad exposure to the real estate market by property type, geographic location and size.
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, Rowan considered the current level of expected returns on risk-free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the plans other asset classes and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based upon the current asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the plans, which was 8% at December 31, 2010.
 
- 17 -
 
The Parent is expected to contribute approximately $7.0 million in 2011 to the pension plans on behalf of the Company.
The Company estimates that the plans will make the following annual payments for pension benefits based upon existing benefit formulas (in thousands):
Effective January 1, 2011, the Company implemented a transition incentive benefit, which is a cash payout available to employees age 40 and above with at least five years of service on December 31, 2010.  The amount of the benefit is based on the employees age at December 31, 2010 and annual compensation in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Payment will be made annually in the first quarter of each succeeding year, and each payment is contingent on the employees continued service through December 31 of the preceding year.  The maximum projected payouts, assuming all eligible employees satisfy the service requirements are as follows: 2012  $2.8 million, 2013  $2.0 million, and 2014  $2.0 million.
In addition to the defined-benefit pension plans, the Company has a defined contribution savings plan covering substantially all employees, under which it contributed $3.1 million in 2010.
The Company also has an annual incentive plan (AIP), which covered approximately 136 employees in 2010.  As of December 31, 2010, the Company had accrued approximately $4.5 million under the AIP, which was paid to eligible employees in early 2011.
LeTourneau is included in Rowans consolidated federal income tax returns. Current income taxes have been provided on a separate return basis, though such amounts will be (or have been) paid by Rowan. The detail of income tax provisions for 2010 is presented below (in thousands):
 
- 18 -
 
LeTourneaus income tax benefit for 2010 differs from that determined by applying the federal income tax rate (statutory rate) to income from continuing operations before income taxes, as follows (in thousands):
Temporary differences and carryforwards that gave rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2010, were as follows (in thousands):
Undistributed earnings of the Companys foreign subsidiaries in the amount of approximately $17.1 million at December 31, 2010, could be potentially subject to U.S. federal income taxes of approximately $0.8 million. The Company has not provided any U.S. federal deferred income taxes on such undistributed earnings because it considers them to be permanently invested abroad.
At December 31, 2010, LeTourneau had $0.8 million of net unrecognized tax benefits, all of which would reduce the Companys income tax provision if recognized. The Company does not expect to recognize significant increases or decreases in unrecognized tax benefits during the next twelve months.
 
- 19 -
 
The following table highlights the changes in the Companys gross unrecognized tax benefits for the year ended December 31, 2010 (in millions):
Interest and penalties relating to income taxes are included in current income tax expense. Accrued interest and penalties at December 31, 2010, were not material.
Rowans U.S. federal tax returns for 2006 through 2008 are currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and 2002 and later years remain subject to examination. Various state tax returns for 2005 and subsequent years remain open for examination.  In the Companys foreign tax jurisdictions, returns for 2007 and subsequent years remain subject to examination by the tax authorities.
Income before income taxes in 2010 consisted of domestic entities earnings of $27.9 million and foreign entities earnings of $9.6 million.
The Company has operating leases covering offices and equipment. Net rental expense under all operating leases was $6.6 million in 2010.
At December 31, 2010, the future minimum payments to be made under noncancelable operating leases were as follows (in thousands):
Rowan periodically employs, on LeTourneaus behalf and in the normal course of its businesses, letters of credit, or other bank-issued guarantees, and such agreements amounted to approximately $19.5 million at December 31, 2010. Rowan also periodically issues parent company performance guarantees on behalf of LeTourneau.
LeTourneau has ongoing environmental responsibilities related to its operations and facilities, the costs of which are expensed as incurred. Such costs for 2010 were not material.
LeTourneau is involved in various legal proceedings incidental to its businesses and is vigorously defending its position in all such matters. The Company believes that there are no known contingencies, claims, or lawsuits that could have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
- 20 -
 
LeTourneaus reportable segments reflect an aggregation of separately managed, strategic business units for which financial information is separately prepared and monitored based upon qualitative and quantitative factors. The Company evaluates segment performance based upon income from operations. The accounting policies of each segment are as described in LeTourneaus summary of significant accounting policies in Note 2.
Manufacturing operations are primarily conducted in Longview and Houston, Texas and Vicksburg, Mississippi, though products are shipped throughout the United States and to many foreign locations.
Segment information for 2010 is set forth below (in thousands):
Material charges in 2010 consisted of an adjustment to the Companys inventory valuation reserve. (See Inventories in Note 2.)
One customer provided 10% of sales to unaffiliated customers in 2010.
Sales to unaffiliated customers by geographic area for 2010 are set forth below (in thousands):
 
- 21 -
 
Long-lived assets at December 31, 2010, by geographic area are set forth below (in thousands):
 Rowan uses a centralized approach to cash management and financing operations. Rowan regularly funds LeTourneaus operating and investing activities, and sweeps all LeTourneau domestic cash receipts. Transfers of cash both to and from Rowans cash management system are reflected as a component of Parent company investment within Parent Company Equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Rowan charges LeTourneau a financing cost on its parent company investment at the annual rate of 10% in 2010. Such amounts are reflected as interest expense on the consolidated statement of operations.  The amounts allocated to LeTourneau may not necessarily reflect the costs LeTourneau might have incurred had they operated as an independent company during the periods presented.
Cash Management
 LeTourneau was allocated corporate overhead expenses from Rowan for corporate-related functions primarily based upon a pro-rata percentage of Rowan consolidated revenues. General corporate overhead expenses primarily relate to centralized corporate functions, including executive management, treasury, tax, legal, external reporting, internal audit and risk management functions. Rowan allocated general corporate expenses totaling approximately $1.0 million in 2010. Such amounts are included within selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and increased the Parents investment in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The amounts allocated to LeTourneau may not necessarily reflect the costs LeTourneau might have incurred had they operated as an independent company during the period.
Allocated Expenses
 As previously noted, LeTourneau is a major supplier to Rowan of rigs and related drilling equipment, repair parts and services. These products and services were provided at negotiated prices intended to approximate market prices, with monthly billing and settlement recorded as a component of Parent company investment within Parent Company Equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Sales to Parent
Sales made to Rowan during 2010 were as follows (in thousands):
 
- 22 -
 
Rowan hull and kit projects in process at December 31, 2010, were as follows (in thousands):
The Company evaluated events and transactions subsequent to December 31, 2010, through April 27, 2011, the date the financial statements were issued.  There were no events or transactions that occurred during that period not disclosed herein requiring recognition or disclosure in the financial statements.
 
- 23 -
 
LeTourneau
Technologies, Inc.
and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of
March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, and for the
Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 and 2010
 
 
 
LETOURNEAU TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
AS OF MARCH 31, 2011 AND DECEMBER 31, 2010
(Unaudited)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
- 2 -
 
LETOURNEAU TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2011 AND 2010
(Unaudited)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
- 3 -
 
LETOURNEAU TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2011 AND 2010
(Unaudited)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
- 4 -
 
LETOURNEAU TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO UNADITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS OF MARCH 31, 2011 AND DECEMBER 31, 2010, AND FOR THE
 
The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries, hereinafter referred to as LeTourneau or the Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Rowan Companies, Inc. (Rowan or the Parent).  The consolidated financial statements of the Company have historically been included in the consolidated financial statements of Rowan.
On June 22, 2011, the Parent closed on the sale of the Company to Joy Global Inc. (see Note 8).
The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included herein have been prepared without audit in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Management believes the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, which are of a normal recurring nature unless otherwise noted, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented.  Results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year. These statements should be read in conjunction with the Companys audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2010.
The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the use of carve-out accounting procedures, whereby certain assets, liabilities and expenses recognized or incurred by the Parent on behalf of LeTourneau, have been allocated to reflect the financial results of LeTourneau for the periods presented.  Allocations of certain Parent administrative expenses were based on a percentage of revenues, which management believes represents a reasonable methodology. See Note 5 for further information.
Historically, LeTourneau has been included in Rowans consolidated tax return; however, for purposes of these carve-out Consolidated Financial Statements, income tax expense and related tax assets and liabilities were determined as if LeTourneau filed a separate income tax return.
We are currently constructing a jack-up rig for Rowan in our Vicksburg, Mississippi, shipyard.  Subject to and upon the closing of the sale of the Company to Joy Global, Inc. as described in Note 8 (the Joy Acquisition), Rowan will assume responsibility for the remaining construction of the rig using our facilities and contracting our workers.  Accordingly, we will recognize no further revenues or profit associated with the construction of this rig following the closing of the Joy Acquisition.
Following completion of this rig, we plan to discontinue constructing rigs at our Vicksburg shipyard; however, we intend to continue constructing rig components and using the facility for offshore rig repair and service activities.  These plans will result in a reduction of our workforce in Vicksburg.  During the second quarter of 2011, we have informed substantially all affected employees of our reduction plans.  We estimate that we will ultimately incur $7 million to $9 million in cash costs in connection with these reduction plans.
 
- 5 -
 
LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. Incentive Plan
In December 2010, the Company adopted the LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. Incentive Plan, effective January 1, 2011 (the LeT LTIP), under which the compensation committee of the board of directors of Rowan (the Compensation Committee) could grant to Company employees stock appreciation rights (LeT SARs) and restricted stock units (LeT RSUs) denominated in common stock of LeTourneau.  On January 1, 2011, the Company granted to 50 LeTourneau employees LeT SARs and LeT RSUs with a fair value aggregating $5.3 million.
LeT SARs conferred on the grantee the right to receive cash, or shares of LeTourneau at the discretion of the Compensation Committee, of an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value per share on the exercise date over the fair market value per share on the grant date with respect to a specific number of shares of LeTourneau common stock.  LeT RSUs were rights to receive cash, or shares of LeTourneau stock at the discretion of the Compensation Committee, equal in value to the fair market value of a specific number of shares of common stock of LeTourneau.
In June 2011, all awards granted under the LeTourneau Plan became fully vested and payable in cash under the change-in-control provisions of the plan as a result of the sale of LeTourneau.  The Company is expected to pay an estimated $2.1 million in cash in June 2011 for its portion of the cash settlement, which will be charged to compensation expense at the time of payment.
2009 Rowan Companies, Inc. Incentive Plan
In June 2011, unvested awards granted to LeTourneau employees under the 2009 Rowan Companies, Inc. Incentive Plan became fully vested upon the sale of LeTourneau, and the Company recognized noncash stock-based compensation expense of $1.5 million in the second quarter attributable to the accelerated vesting.
LeTourneau sponsors a defined-benefit pension plan covering substantially all of its employees hired on or before July 1, 2009, and an executive defined-benefit pension plan covering named executives. The Company has amended the plans to freeze benefits as of December 31, 2010, which resulted in a curtailment gain of $5.4 million at that date.  Under the amendment, no individuals could become members of the plans after such date, and all participants in the plans as of that date could no longer accrue additional benefits.
The components of net periodic pension cost for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, were as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
- 6 -
 
During the three months ended March 31, 2011, the Parent contributed $2.7 million to the Companys defined benefit pension plans.  Required contributions under the plans for the remainder of 2011 are expected to approximate $4.3 million.
LeTourneau is involved in various legal proceedings incidental to its businesses and is vigorously defending its position in all such matters. The Company believes that there are no known contingencies, claims, or lawsuits that could have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 Rowan uses a centralized approach to cash management and financing operations. Rowan regularly funds LeTourneaus operating and investing activities, and sweeps all LeTourneau domestic cash receipts. Transfers of cash both to and from Rowans cash management system are reflected as a component of Parent company investment within Parent Company Equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Rowan charges LeTourneau a financing cost on its parent company investment at the annual rate of 10% in 2011 and 2010. Such amounts are reflected as interest expense on the condensed consolidated statement of operations.  The amounts allocated to LeTourneau may not necessarily reflect the costs LeTourneau might have incurred had they operated as an independent company during the periods presented.
Cash Management
 LeTourneau was allocated corporate overhead expenses from Rowan for corporate-related functions primarily based upon a pro-rata percentage of Rowan consolidated revenues. General corporate overhead expenses primarily relate to centralized corporate functions, including executive management, treasury, tax, legal, external reporting, internal audit and risk management functions. Rowan allocated general corporate expenses totaling approximately $0.239 million in each of the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010. Such amounts are included within selling, general and administrative expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and increased the Parents investment in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The amounts allocated to LeTourneau may not necessarily reflect the costs LeTourneau might have incurred had they operated as an independent company during the periods presented.
Allocated Expenses
 As previously noted, LeTourneau is a major supplier to Rowan of rigs and related drilling equipment, repair parts and services. These products and services were provided at negotiated prices intended to approximate market prices, with monthly billing and settlement recorded as a component of Parent company investment within Parent Company Equity in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Sales to Parent
 
- 7 -
 
Sales made to Rowan during the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in thousands):
 
Rowan hull and kit projects in process at March 31, 2011, were as follows (in thousands):
 
LeTourneaus reportable segments reflect an aggregation of separately managed, strategic business units for which financial information is separately prepared and monitored based upon qualitative and quantitative factors. The Company evaluates segment performance based upon income from operations.
Segment information for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, is set forth below (in thousands):
 
The operating loss for Drilling Products for the three months ended March 31, 2010 includes a lower-of-cost-or-market inventory adjustment which reduced income by approximately $42.0 million (see Note 7, Inventories).
 
- 8 -
 
 At March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the carrying amounts of the Companys receivables and payables approximated their fair values due to the short maturity of such financial instruments.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The following table sets forth the changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts during the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands):
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 
 Inventories are carried at the lower of average cost or estimated net realizable value.  Costs include labor, material and an allocation of production overhead.  Management regularly reviews inventory for obsolescence and reserves for items unlikely to be sold in order to reduce the cost to its estimated realizable value.  Management determines valuation allowances or reserves for inventory based on historical usage of inventory on hand, assumptions about future demand based on market conditions, and estimates about potential alternative uses, which are usually limited.  Inventories generally consist of spare parts, work in process and raw materials to support ongoing manufacturing operations and the Companys installed base of drilling, mining and forestry equipment.  Customers rely on the Company to stock these specialized items to ensure that their equipment can be repaired and serviced in a timely manner.  The estimated carrying values of inventories therefore ultimately depend on demand driven by oil, natural gas and other commodity prices, general worldwide economic conditions and the potential obsolescence of inventories on hand, among other factors.
Inventories
In early 2010, the Drilling Products segment performed an assessment of its Houston-based raw materials and supplies inventories.  Management determined that a significant number of items had experienced some level of deterioration such that they were not within tolerance of original specifications or no longer conformed to minimum quality standards.  Full provision was made for the cost of items that could not be efficiently reworked.  In addition, as the Company continued to work off existing product backlog during the period, the quantity and age of slow-moving inventory items was continuing to grow.  Management expected this trend would continue for the foreseeable future.  As a result, the Company recorded a lower-of-cost-or-market adjustment of approximately $42.0 million and recorded a corresponding charge to operations in the first quarter of 2010.
 
- 9 -
 
The following table summarizes the changes in the Companys inventory reserves for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands):
The following table summarizes the status of the Companys long-term construction projects in progress.  Payments, revenues and costs are cumulative from inception of the contract through the date indicated.  Payments include those received for projects not yet begun and completed projects with outstanding collections (in thousands):
Construction Contracts in Progress 
The following table summarizes the changes in the Companys estimated liability for warranty costs for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands):
Product Warranties 
 There were no changes in other comprehensive income for the three months ended March 31, 2011 or 2010.
Other Comprehensive Income
 
- 10 -
 
On June 22, 2011, (the Closing Date) the Parent closed on its sale of the Company to Joy Global Inc. for $1.1 billion in cash, subject, however, to post-closing working capital adjustments.
Under the terms of the sale to Joy Global, the Parent agreed to assume the rights and obligations under an equipment purchase agreement between LeTourneau, as seller, and Ali and Sons, as buyer.  Under the agreement, inventories in the amount of $27.7 million at March 31, 2011, and a related obligation attributable to a cash advance from the buyer in the amount of $20.1 million at the same date were transferred to Rowan at the Closing Date.
The Company evaluated events and transactions subsequent to March 31, 2011, through September 2, 2011, the date the financial statements were issued.

Exhibit 99.2
On June 22, 2011, Joy Global Inc. (Joy Global) completed the acquisition of LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. (LeTourneau) from Rowan Companies, Inc. (Rowan), in accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated May 13, 2011, between Joy Global and Rowan (the Agreement).  Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, Joy Global purchased from Rowan all of the outstanding shares of LeTourneau for an aggregate amount of $1.1 billion, subject to adjustment as provided in the Agreement.  The purchase price was funded in part through available cash resources and a new $500 million credit agreement.
LeTourneau is comprised of three business segments, drilling products, mining equipment and steel products.  On August 29, 2011, Joy Global entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with Cameron International Corporation (Cameron).  Pursuant to the terms of this Stock Purchase Agreement, Cameron will acquire all of the outstanding shares of LeTourneau Drilling Systems, Inc, for an aggregate amount of $375 million.  At the time of closing, LeTourneau Drilling Systems, Inc. will encompass substantially all of the assets and operations of the drilling products business.  The financial impact of the business to be divested has been reflected as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet and excluded from the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statements of Income presented.  Joy Global retained ownership of the mining equipment and steel products businesses.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statements of Income combine the historical financial information of Joy Global and LeTourneau for the six months ended April 29, 2011 and for the year ended October 29, 2010 to illustrate the estimated effect of the acquisition as if it had occurred as of the beginning of the periods presented.  The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet as of April 29, 2011 combines the historical financial information of Joy Global and the LeTourneau mining equipment and steel products businesses to illustrate the estimated effect of the acquisition on Joy Globals balance sheet as if the acquisition had occurred on April 29, 2011.  The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statements of Income for both periods presented include the period from October 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010 in the LeTourneau and Drilling Products information.
The historical financial information has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma matters that are (1) directly attributable to the acquisition, (2) factually supportable, and (3) with respect to the statements of income, expected to have a continuing impact on the operating results of the combined company.  The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information, the audited historical financial statements of Joy Global, as of and for the year ended October 29, 2010 included its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the audited historical consolidated financial statements of LeTourneau as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 included as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information has been prepared using the acquisition method of accounting under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information will differ from our final acquisition accounting for a number of reasons, including the fact that our estimates of fair value are preliminary and subject to change when our formal valuation and other studies are finalized.  The adjustments that may occur to the preliminary estimates could have a material impact on the accompanying Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information.
 
 
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information is presented for information purposes only.  It has been prepared in accordance with the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not necessarily indicative of what our financial position or results of operations actually would have been had we completed the acquisition at the dates indicated, nor does it purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company.
 
 
 
 
Note: LeTourneau and Drilling Products financial information as of March 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
Note: LeTourneau and Drilling Products financial information for six months ended March 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
Note: LeTourneau and Drilling Products financial information for twelve months ended December 31, 2010.
Note 1  Preliminary Purchase Consideration Allocation
The preliminary total consideration for the acquisition was as follows:
The final purchase consideration amount is pending, among other things, final agreement of the adjustment to the cash consideration based upon the level of net working capital transferred at closing.  The preliminary allocation of the purchase consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is based on the estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.  The fair values of the assets and liabilities included in the table below are preliminary and subject to change principally as we are currently in the process of obtaining third-party valuations.
The excess of the purchase consideration over the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets is reflected as goodwill.  The amount allocated to intangible assets and goodwill for tax purposes is expected to be tax deductible as a result of the election under Section 338(h) (10) of the Internal Revenue Code.  The following table summarizes the preliminary estimates of fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date:
 
 
 
 
The determination of fair value for acquired intangible assets is currently underway and includes intangible assets consisting of technology, customer relationships, trademarks and backlog.  Of the $488 million of intangible assets and goodwill, $232 million has been preliminarily assigned to intangible assets which are being amortized over an average weighted life of twelve years.  The determination of the useful life was based upon historical experience, economic factors, and future cash flows of the assets acquired.
Inventories reflect adjustments of $16.5 million to establish the estimated fair market value.  Property, plant and equipment reflects an adjustment of $24.1 million to establish the estimated fair market value.  These adjustments have been reflected on the April 29, 2011 balance sheet.
For purposes of these Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Statements, a blended statutory rate of 40% has been used.  This rate is an estimate and does not take into account any possible future tax planning or events that may occur for the combined company.  We recognized an estimated deferred tax asset of $1.5 million and an estimated deferred tax liability of $5.3 million related to the tax effect on differences in timing of deductibility and we also adjusted tax expense from earnings of continuing operations of the acquired business to the blended statutory rate.
 
 
 
 
Note 2  Adjustments to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet
Represents fair value adjustments of certain intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and inventories.  Adjustments also reflect the elimination of profit in inventory at Joy Global related to the preexisting distributor agreement between Joy Global and LeTourneau and the additional debt incurred to finance the transaction.  Amortizable intangible assets are being amortized over a 12 year weighted average life while property, plant and equipment is being depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets using the straight-line method for financial reporting.  Inventories have been adjusted to their estimated fair market value and will be charged to cost of goods sold over a period of three to twelve months.  Deferred tax balances and balances due the former parent company of LeTourneau have been adjusted to reflect assets and liabilities not acquired.
Note 3  Adjustments to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statement of Income
Represents the estimated adjustments to amortization and depreciation expense related to the fair value adjustments of certain intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and the elimination of certain transactions recognized by both parties under the preexisting distributor relationship.  Depreciation expense relating to property, plant and equipment and certain technology related intangible amortization is included in costs of sales while the remaining intangible amortization expense is included in product development, selling and administrative expenses.  Adjustment also reflects additional interest expense relating to the debt incurred to finance the transaction.
We have not reversed non-recurring acquisition expenses.  The costs included in the April 29, 2011 combined condensed statement of income were not significant and it is expected that the costs related to the acquisition will be in the quarter ending July 29, 2011.


