FILE:JOY/JOY-8K-20111012092434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On October 6, 2011, Joy Global Inc. (the "Company") entered into an underwriting agreement with Goldman, Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (the "Underwriting Agreement"), for the issuance and sale by the Company of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of its 5.125% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "Notes"). The Notes are guaranteed by certain of the Company's domestic subsidiaries (the "Subsidiary Guarantors"). The Company registered the offering and sale of the Notes under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-177189) (the "Registration Statement"). A copy of the Underwriting Agreement is attached as Exhibit 1.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The offering of the Notes is expected to close on October 12, 2011, subject to customary closing conditions. The Notes will be issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of November 10, 2006 (as amended and supplemented from time to time, the "Base Indenture"), among the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee") as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 12, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture"), among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee (the Base Indenture, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"). The Indenture provides, among other things, that the Notes will be senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with the Company's existing and future senior unsecured debt. Interest is payable on the Notes on October 15 and April 15 of each year, beginning on April 15, 2012. The Notes will mature on October 15, 2021.
As previously disclosed, on July 11, 2011, we entered into an agreement to purchase approximately 41.1% of the outstanding common stock of International Mining Machinery Holdings Limited (the "IMM Purchase Agreement"), a leading designer and manufacturer of underground mining equipment in China (the "41.1% Acquisition"). The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to fund in part the 41.1% Acquisition and the related tender offer, with any remaining proceeds used for general corporate purposes.
The 41.1% Acquisition is subject to approval from the Anti-monopoly Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce ("MOFCOM") of The People's Republic of China and other customary closing conditions. We may redeem the Notes, in whole but not in part, in the event that (i) we do not consummate the 41.1% Acquisition by July 1, 2012, if we receive MOFCOM approval prior to such date, or by October 1, 2012, if we do not receive MOFCOM approval prior to July 1, 2012 or (ii) the IMM Purchase Agreement is terminated prior to either such date, at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the special acquisition redemption date. The Company may also redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, at the greater of 100% of the principal amount of such Notes being redeemed or the discounted present value of such Notes, discounted at the corresponding U.S. Treasury rate plus 50 basis points.
A copy of the Base Indenture was previously filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 16, 2006, and a copy of the Supplemental Indenture is filed hereto as Exhibit 4.2. The descriptions of the material terms of the Indenture and the Notes are qualified in their entirety by reference to such exhibits.
A news release dated October 6, 2011 announcing the pricing of the offering of the Notes is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the Undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION VERSION
October 6, 2011
            
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated
As Representatives of the
several Underwriters listed
in Schedule 1 hereto
c/o Goldman, Sachs & Co.
200 West Street
New York, New York 10282-2198
c/o J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
383 Madison Avenue
New York, New York 10179
and c/o Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated
One Bryant Park
New York, New York 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Joy Global Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several Underwriters listed in Schedule 1 hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom you are acting as representatives (the "Representatives"),
$500,000,000 principal amount of its 5.125% Senior Notes due 2021 having the terms set forth in Schedule 2 hereto (the "Securities"). The Securities will be issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of November 10, 2006, between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture to be dated as of October 12, 2011 among the Company, Joy Technologies Inc., P&H Mining Equipment Inc., N.E.S. Investment Co., Continental Crushing & Conveying Inc. and LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. (collectively, the "Guarantors") and the Trustee (such Indenture, as amended and supplemented, the "Indenture"), and will be guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by each of the Guarantors (the "Guarantees").
The Company agrees to issue and sell the Securities to the several Underwriters as provided in this Agreement, and each Underwriter, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in Schedule 1 hereto at a price equal to 98.501% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, from October 12, 2011 to the Closing Date (as defined below). The Company will not be obligated to deliver any of the Securities except upon payment for all the Securities to be purchased as provided herein.
The Company understands that the Underwriters intend to make a public offering of the Securities as soon after the effectiveness of this Agreement as in the judgment of the Representatives is advisable, and initially to offer the Securities on the terms set forth in the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus. Section 3 hereto sets forth the Time of Sale Information made available at the Time of Sale. The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Underwriters may offer and sell Securities to or through any affiliate of an Underwriter and that any such affiliate may offer and sell Securities purchased by it to or through any Underwriter.
Payment for and delivery of the Securities shall be made at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on October 12, 2011, or at such other time or place on the same or such other date, not later than the fifth business day thereafter, as the Representatives and the Company may agree upon in writing.
Payment for the Securities shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the account specified by the Company to the Representatives against delivery to the nominee of The Depository Trust Company, for the account of the Underwriters, of one or more global notes representing the Securities (collectively, the "Global Note"), with any transfer taxes payable in connection with the sale of the Securities duly paid by the Company. The Global Note will be made available for inspection by the Representatives not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the business day prior to the Closing Date.
The Company and the Underwriters acknowledge and agree that the only information that has been furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter
through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information and any Preliminary Prospectus consists of the following: the 3
rd
paragraph, the 3
rd
and 4
th
sentence of the 7
th
paragraph and the 8
th
and 9
th
paragraph under the caption "Underwriting."
All provisions contained in the document entitled Joy Global Inc. Debt Securities Underwriting Agreement Standard Provisions are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Underwriting Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein, except that if any term defined in such Underwriting Agreement Standard Provisions is otherwise defined herein, the definition set forth herein shall control.
This Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please indicate your acceptance of this Agreement by signing in the space provided below.
 
Accepted: October 6, 2011
GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH
INCORPORATED
For themselves and on behalf of the
several Underwriters listed
in Schedule 1 hereto.
 
 
From time to time, Joy Global Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), may enter into one or more underwriting agreements in the form of Annex A hereto that incorporate by reference these Standard Provisions (collectively with these Standard Provisions, an "Underwriting Agreement") that provide for the sale of the securities designated in such Underwriting Agreement (the "Securities") to the several Underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters"), for whom the Underwriters named therein shall act as representatives (the "Representatives"). The Underwriting Agreement, including these Standard Provisions, is sometimes referred to herein as this "Agreement". The Securities will be issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of November 10, 2006 (the "Base Indenture") between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture") to be dated as of October 12, 2011 among the Company, Joy Technologies Inc., P&H Mining Equipment Inc., N.E.S. Investment Co., Continental Crushing & Conveying Inc. and LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. (the "Texas Guarantor") (collectively, the "Guarantors") and the Trustee (the Base Indenture, as amended and supplemented from time to time, including by the Supplemental Indenture , the "Indenture"), and will be guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by each of the Guarantors (the "Guarantees").
1. . The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-177189), including a prospectus (the "Basic Prospectus"), relating to the debt securities to be issued from time to time by the Company. The Company has also filed, or proposes to file, with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act a prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Securities (the "Prospectus Supplement"). The registration statement, as amended at the time it becomes effective, including the information, if any, deemed pursuant to Rule 430A, 430B or 430C under the Securities Act to be part of the registration statement at the time of its effectiveness ("Rule 430 Information"), is referred to herein as the "Registration Statement"; and as used herein, the term "Prospectus" means the Basic Prospectus as supplemented by the prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Securities in the form first used (or made available upon request of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173 under the Securities Act) in connection with confirmation of sales of the Securities and the term "Preliminary Prospectus" means the preliminary prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Securities together with the Basic Prospectus. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus. References herein to the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus,
Registration Statement
 
any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein. The terms "supplement," "amendment" and "amend" as used herein with respect to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents filed by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder subsequent to the date of the Underwriting Agreement which are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Effective Time" means the date and time of effectiveness of the Registration Statement with respect to the offering of Securities, as determined for the Company pursuant to Section 11 of the Securities Act and Item 512 of Regulation S-K, as applicable.
At or prior to the time when sales of the Securities will be first made (the "Time of Sale"), the Company will prepare information consisting of (i) the Preliminary Prospectus, (ii) the Term Sheet in the form of Schedule 5 hereto and (iii) any other Issuer Free Writing Prospectus identified in Schedule 4 to the Underwriting Agreement for such offering of Securities as constituting part of the Time of Sale Information (the "Time of Sale Information").
2. . (a) The Company agrees to issue and sell the Securities to the several Underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement, and each Underwriter, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in the Underwriting Agreement at the purchase price set forth in the Underwriting Agreement.
Purchase of the Securities by the Underwriters
(b) Payment for and delivery of the Securities will be made at the time and place set forth in the Underwriting Agreement. The time and date of such payment and delivery is referred to herein as the "Closing Date".
(c) The Company and the Guarantors acknowledge and agree that the Underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement are acting solely in the capacity of an arm's-length contractual counterparty to the Company and the Guarantors with respect to any offering of Securities contemplated hereby (including in connection with determining the terms of the offering) and not as financial advisors or fiduciaries to, or agents of, the Company, the Guarantors or any other person. Additionally, neither the Representatives nor any other Underwriter is advising the Company, the Guarantors or any other person as to any legal, tax, investment, accounting or regulatory matters in any jurisdiction. The Company and the Guarantors shall consult with their own advisors concerning such matters and shall be responsible for making their own independent investigation and appraisal of the transactions contemplated hereby, and such Underwriters shall have no responsibility or liability to the Company or the Guarantors with respect thereto. Any review by such Underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement of the Company, the Guarantors, the transactions
 
contemplated thereby or other matters relating to such transactions will be performed solely for the benefit of the Underwriters and shall not be on behalf of the Company or the Guarantors.
3. . The Company and the Guarantors jointly and severally represent and warrant to each Underwriter that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company and the Guarantors
(a) . The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement" as defined under Rule 405 of the Securities Act that has been filed with the Commission not earlier than three years prior to the date hereof; and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of such registration statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act has been received by the Company. No order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued by the Commission and no proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act against the Company or any Guarantor or related to the offering has been initiated or threatened by the Commission; as of the Effective Time, the Registration Statement complied in all material respects with the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "Trust Indenture Act"), and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, and did not or will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading; as of the date of the Preliminary Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, the Preliminary Prospectus (including the documents incorporated by reference therein as of the time the Preliminary Prospectus was filed with the Commission) did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and as of the date of the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto and as of the Closing Date, the Prospectus (including the documents incorporated by reference therein) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that each of the Company and the Guarantors make no representation and warranty with respect to (i) that part of the Registration Statement that constitutes the Statement of Eligibility (Form T-1) of the Trustee under the Trust Indenture Act or (ii) any statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
Registration Statement and Prospectus
 
(b) . The Time of Sale Information, at the Time of Sale and at the Closing Date did not and will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that each of the Company and the Guarantors make no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in such Time of Sale Information.
Time of Sale Information
(c) . The Company and the Guarantors (including their agents and representatives, other than the Underwriters in their capacity as such) have not prepared, made, used, authorized, approved or referred to and will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any "written communication" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) that constitutes an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy the Securities (each such communication by the Company or its agents and representatives (other than a communication referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) below) an "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus") other than (i) any document not constituting a prospectus pursuant to Section 2(a)(10)(a) of the Securities Act or Rule 134 under the Securities Act, (ii) the Preliminary Prospectus, (iii) the Prospectus, (iv) the documents listed on Schedule 4 to the Underwriting Agreement as constituting the Time of Sale Information and (v) any electronic road show or other written communications, in each case approved in writing in advance by the Representatives. Each such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, has been or will be (within the time period specified in Rule 433) filed in accordance with the Securities Act (to the extent required thereby) and, when taken together with the Preliminary Prospectus and any other Time of Sale Information accompanying, or delivered prior to delivery of, or filed prior to the first use of such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, did not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus as of its issue date and through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Securities did not, does not and will not conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus; provided that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in each such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
(d) . The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the Time of Sale Information, when filed with the Commission, conformed or will conform, as the case may be, in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act.
Incorporated Documents
 
(e) . The financial statements and the related notes thereto included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, as applicable, except as otherwise noted therein, present fairly the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates indicated and the results of their operations and the changes in their cash flows for the periods specified; such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis (except as otherwise disclosed therein) throughout the periods covered thereby, and the supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement present fairly the information required to be stated therein; and the other financial information included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus presents fairly in all material respects the information shown thereby.
Financial Statements
(f) . The Company and each of its significant subsidiaries, all of which are identified on Schedule 3 hereto (each a "Significant Subsidiary"), has been duly organized and is validly existing and in good standing as a corporation or other business entity under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization, with all power and authority necessary to conduct the business as currently conducted; and the Company and each of its Significant Subsidiaries is duly qualified to do business and in good standing as a foreign corporation or other business entity in each jurisdiction in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, properties, business or affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries (as defined in Section 14 hereof) taken as a whole (a "Material Adverse Effect").
Organization and Good Standing
(g) . Except as disclosed in the Registration Statement and the Time of Sale Information, since the date such information is given and as of the date of the Prospectus, (i) there has not been any change in the capital stock or long-term debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (other than pursuant to the Company's or such subsidiary's employee benefit plans and agreements) or long-term debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any adverse change in the financial condition, results of operations, properties, business or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, in each case except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect or materially impair the ability of the Company or the Guarantors to perform their obligations under the Transaction Documents (as defined below); (ii) the Company has not entered into any transaction or agreement that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or incurred any liability or obligation, direct or contingent, that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, other than liabilities and obligations that were incurred in the ordinary course of business and (iii) the Company has not declared or paid any dividend on its capital stock (other than regular quarterly cash dividends).
No Material Adverse Change
 
(h) . All the outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of each Significant Subsidiary of the Company have been duly and validly authorized and issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and except as otherwise described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus are owned directly or indirectly by the Company, free and clear of any lien, charge, encumbrance, security interest, restriction on voting or transfer or any other claim of any third party, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Capitalization
(i) . The Company and each of the Guarantors has full right, power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement, the Securities (including each Guarantee set forth therein) and the Supplemental Indenture (collectively, the "Transaction Documents") and to perform their respective obligations hereunder and thereunder; and all action required to be taken for the due and proper authorization, execution and delivery of each of the Transaction Documents and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby has been duly and validly taken.
Due Authorization
(j) . The Indenture has been duly authorized, and the Indenture has been, and at the Closing Date the Indenture will be, duly executed and delivered by the Company and each of the Guarantors and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee, constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company and each of the Guarantors enforceable against the Company and each of the Guarantors in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by equitable principles relating to enforceability (collectively, the "Enforceability Exceptions"). The Indenture has been, and at the Closing Date will be, duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
The Indenture
(k) . The Securities have been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as provided in the Indenture and assuming due authentication, execution and delivery by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture, and paid for as provided herein, will be duly and validly issued and outstanding and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture; and the Guarantees have been duly authorized by each of the Guarantors and, when the Securities have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as provided in the Indenture and paid for as provided herein, will be validly and legally binding obligations of each of the Guarantors, enforceable against each of the Guarantors in accordance with their terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
The Securities and the Guarantees
 
(l) . The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and each of the Guarantors.
Underwriting Agreement
(m) Nothing has come to the Company's attention that would cause it to believe that the acquisition pursuant to that Share Purchase Agreement (the "Share Purchase Agreement") among the Company, its wholly owned Hong Kong subsidiary, Newco Hong Kong 123 Limited and TJCC Holdings Limited dated July 11, 2011 (the "Acquisition") will not be consummated substantially in accordance with the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement.
Acquisition of International Mining Machinery Holdings Ltd.
(n) . Each Transaction Document conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
Descriptions of the Transaction Documents
(o) . Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is (i) in violation of its charter or by-laws or similar organizational documents; (ii) in default, and to the Company's knowledge, no event has occurred that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute such a default, in the due performance or observance of any term, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject; (iii) in violation of any law, statute or ordinance or any rule, regulation, injunction or decree or any court or governmental agency to which their property or assets may be subject or (iv) has failed to obtain any license, permit, certificate, franchise or other governmental authorization or permit necessary for the conduct of its business or the ownership or holding of its property, except, in the case of clauses (ii), (iii) and (iv) above, for any such default, violation or failure that would not, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Violation or Default
(p) . The execution, delivery and performance by the Company and each of the Guarantors of each of the Transaction Documents to which each is a party, the issuance and sale of the Securities (including the Guarantees) and compliance by the Company and each of the Guarantors with the terms thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents will not (i) conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, any indenture,
No Conflicts
 
mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, (ii) result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws or similar organizational documents of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or (iii) result in the violation of any law or statute or any decree, order, rule or regulation of any governmental agency or body or court having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or any of their respective properties or assets, except, in the case of clauses (i) and (iii) above, for any such conflict, breach, violation or default that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
(q) . No consent, approval, order or authorization of any governmental agency or body or court having jurisdiction over the Company and the Guarantors is required for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents, except for such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders and registrations or qualifications (i) as have been obtained under the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act; (ii) as may be required under applicable state securities laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities and the Guarantees by the Underwriters or under the securities laws of Canada or any province thereof or (iii) where the failure to obtain such consents, approvals, orders or authorizations would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Consents Required
(r) . Except as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, there are no litigation or legal proceedings pending to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject, or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or which precludes the offering and sale of the Securities on the terms set forth in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
Legal Proceedings
(s) . Ernst & Young LLP, who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and Deloitte & Touche LLP who have certified certain financial statements of LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries, are each an independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries (in the case of Ernst & Young LLP) and LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. (in the case of Deloitte & Touche LLP) within the applicable rules and regulations adopted by the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) and as required by the Securities Act.
Independent Accountants
 
(t) . The Company is not and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, will not be an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act"), and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
Investment Company Act
(u) . The Company is not an ineligible issuer and is a well-known seasoned issuer, in each case as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act, in each case at the times specified in the Securities Act in connection with the offering of the Securities.
Status under the Securities Act
(v) . The Company and its subsidiaries possess all licenses, certificates, permits and other authorizations issued by, and have made all declarations and filings with, the appropriate federal, state, local or foreign governmental or regulatory authorities that are necessary for the ownership of their respective properties or the conduct of their respective businesses as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, except where the failure to possess or make the same would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; and except as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, except to the extent any such noncompliance, revocation, termination or impairment would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received notice of any revocation or modification of any such license, certificate, permit or authorization or has any reason to believe that any such license, certificate, permit or authorization will not be renewed in the ordinary course.
Licenses and Permits
(w) . No labor disturbance by or dispute with employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the best knowledge of the Company, is contemplated or threatened, except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Labor Disputes
(x) . The Company and each of its subsidiaries (i) are, and at all times prior hereto were, in compliance with all laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, orders, judgments, decrees, permits or other legal requirements of any governmental authority, including without limitation any international, national, state, provincial, regional, or local authority, relating to the protection of human health or safety, the environment, or natural resources, or to hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants ("Environmental Laws") applicable to such entity, which compliance includes, without limitation, obtaining, maintaining and complying with all permits and authorizations and approvals required by Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses, and (ii) have not received notice of any actual or alleged
Compliance With Environmental Laws
 
violation of Environmental Laws, or of any potential liability for or other obligation concerning the presence, disposal or release of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants, except where such non-compliance, violation, liability, or other obligation would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, there are no proceedings that are pending against the Company or any of its subsidiaries under Environmental Laws in which a governmental authority is also a party, other than such proceedings regarding which it is reasonably believed that monetary sanctions of $100,000 or less will be imposed.
(y) . The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting that meet the requirements of Rule 13a-15(a) under the Exchange Act. There is, and has been, no failure on the part of the Company since October 29, 2010, to comply in all material respects with Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act or, to the Company's knowledge, any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith.
Disclosure Controls
(z) . Except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, the Company's internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of October 29, 2010 and, to the Company's knowledge, there have been no changes in the Company's internal controls over financial reporting subsequent to October 29, 2010 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Accounting Controls
(aa) . The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened, except in each case as would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Money Laundering Laws
(bb) . None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any sanctions administered or enforced by the United States Government, including without limitation, the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets
Compliance with OFAC
 
Control ("OFAC"), the United Nations Security Council, the European Union, Her Majesty's Treasury, or other relevant sanctions (collectively, "Sanctions"); and the Company is not located, organized or resident in a country or territory that is the subject of Sanctions; and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering of the Shares hereunder, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to the Sanctions.
(cc) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries, nor to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent or employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, has (i) used any corporate funds for any unlawful contribution, gift, entertainment or other unlawful expense relating to political activity; (ii) made any direct or indirect unlawful payment to any foreign or domestic government official or employee from corporate funds; (iii) violated or is in violation of any provision of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977; or (iv) made any bribe, rebate, payoff, influence payment, kickback or other unlawful payment, except in the case of (i)  (iv) for matters which in the aggregate, are de minimus in amount.
Compliance with FCPA.
4. . The Company and each of the Guarantors jointly and severally covenant and agree with each Underwriter that:
Further Agreements of the Company and the Guarantors
(a) . The Company will file the final Prospectus in a form approved by the Representatives with the Commission within the time periods specified by Rule 424(b) and Rule 430A, 430B or 430C under the Securities Act, will file any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (including the Term Sheet in the form of Schedule 5 hereto) to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Securities Act; and will file promptly all reports and any definitive proxy or information statements required to be filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act subsequent to the date of the Prospectus and for so long as the delivery of a prospectus is required in connection with the offering or sale of the Securities. The Company will pay the registration fees for this offering within the time period required by Rule 456(b)(1)(i) under the Securities Act (without giving effect to the proviso therein) and in any event prior to the Closing Date.
Filings with the Commission
(b) . The Company will deliver, without charge, to each Underwriter during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below), as many copies of the Prospectus (including all amendments and supplements thereto and documents incorporated by reference therein) and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (if applicable) as the Representatives may reasonably request. As used herein, the term "Prospectus Delivery Period" means such period of time after the first date of the public offering of the Securities as in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters a prospectus relating to the Securities is required by law to be delivered (or required to be delivered but for Rule 172 under the Securities Act) in connection with sales of the Securities by any Underwriter or dealer.
Delivery of Copies
 
(c) . Before making, preparing, using, authorizing, approving, referring to or filing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and before filing any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company will furnish to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters a copy of the proposed Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, amendment or supplement for review and will not make, prepare, use, authorize, approve, refer to or file any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or file any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representatives reasonably object.
Amendments or Supplements; Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
(d) . The Company will advise the Representatives promptly, and confirm such advice in writing, (i) when any amendment to the Registration Statement relating to the Securities or the Guarantees has been filed or becomes effective; (ii) when any supplement to the Prospectus or any amendment to the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus has been filed; (iii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or the receipt of any comments from the Commission relating to the Registration Statement or any other request by the Commission for any additional information relating to the Registration Statement; (iv) of the issuance by the Commission of any order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act during the Prospectus Delivery Period; (v) of the occurrence of any event within the Prospectus Delivery Period as a result of which the Prospectus, the Time of Sale Information or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus, the Time of Sale Information or any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading; (vi) of the receipt by the Company of any notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act and (vii) of the receipt by the Company of any notice with respect to any suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offer and sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; and the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or suspending any such qualification of the Securities and, if any such order is issued, will use its reasonable best efforts to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
Notice to the Representatives
 
(e) . If at any time prior to the Closing Date (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which the Time of Sale Information as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement the Time of Sale Information to comply with law, the Company will immediately notify the Underwriters thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (c) above, file with the Commission (to the extent required) and furnish to the Underwriters and to such dealers as the Representatives may designate, such amendments or supplements to the Time of Sale Information as may be necessary so that the statements in the Time of Sale Information as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances, be misleading or so that the Time of Sale Information will comply with law.
Time of Sale Information
(f) . If during the Prospectus Delivery Period (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which the Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus to comply with law, the Company will immediately notify the Underwriters thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (c) above, file with the Commission and furnish to the Underwriters and to such dealers as the Representatives may designate, such amendments or supplements to the Prospectus as may be necessary so that the statements in the Prospectus as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, be misleading or so that the Prospectus will comply with law.
Ongoing Compliance
(g) . The Company will qualify the Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives shall reasonably request and will continue such qualifications in effect so long as required for distribution of the Securities; provided that neither Company nor any of the Guarantors shall be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (ii) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (iii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not otherwise so subject.
Blue Sky Compliance
(h) . The Company will make generally available to its security holders and the Representatives as soon as practicable an earning
Earning Statement
 
statement that satisfies the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 of the Commission promulgated thereunder covering a period of at least twelve months beginning with the first fiscal quarter of the Company occurring after the "effective date" (as defined in Rule 158) of the Registration Statement.
(i) . During the period from the date hereof through and including the Closing Date or such later date as is specified in the Underwriting Agreement, the Company and each of the Guarantors will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company or any of the Guarantors and having a tenor of more than one year.
Clear Market
(j) . The Company will apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Securities as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus under the heading "Use of Proceeds".
Use of Proceeds
(k) . Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors will take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that could reasonably be expected to cause or result in any stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities.
No Stabilization
(l) . The Company will file promptly all reports and any definitive proxy or information statements required to be filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act during the Prospectus Delivery Period.
Filing of Exchange Act Documents
(m) . The Company will, pursuant to reasonable procedures developed in good faith, retain copies of each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 433 under the Securities Act.
Record Retention
5. . Each Underwriter hereby represents and agrees that
Certain Agreements of the Underwriters
(a) It has not and will not use, authorize use of, refer to, or participate in the planning for use of, any "free writing prospectus", as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act (which term includes use of any written information furnished to the Commission by the Company and not incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and any press release issued by the Company) other than (i) a free writing prospectus that, solely a result of use by such underwriter, would not trigger an obligation to file such free writing prospectus with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433, (ii) any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus listed on Schedule 4 to the Underwriting Agreement or prepared pursuant to Section 3(c) or Section 4(c) above (including any electronic road show), or (iii) any free writing prospectus prepared by such underwriter and approved by the Company in advance in writing (each such free writing prospectus referred to in clauses (i) or (iii), an "Underwriter Free Writing Prospectus.")
 
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing the Underwriters may use a term sheet substantially in the form of Schedule 5 to the Underwriting Agreement without the consent of the Company.
6. . The obligation of each Underwriter to purchase Securities on the Closing Date as provided herein is subject to the performance by the Company and each of the Guarantors of their respective covenants and other obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
(a) . If a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement is required to be filed under the Securities Act, such post-effective amendment shall have become effective, and the Representatives shall have received notice thereof, not later than 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on the date of the Underwriting Agreement; if applicable, the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement shall have become effective by 10:00 a.m. New York City time on the business day following the date of the Underwriting Agreement; no order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall be in effect, and no proceeding for such purpose, pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or pursuant to Section 8A under the Securities Act shall be pending before or threatened by the Commission; the Prospectus and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus shall have been timely filed with the Commission under the Securities Act (in the case of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Securities Act) and in accordance with Section 4(a) hereof; and all requests by the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Representatives.
Registration Compliance; No Stop Order
(b) . The representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors contained herein shall be true and correct on the date hereof and on and as of the Closing Date; and the statements of the Company, the Guarantors and their respective officers made in any certificates delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date.
Representations and Warranties
(c) . Subsequent to the earlier of (A) the Time of Sale and (B) the execution and delivery of this Agreement, (i) no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded the Securities or any other debt securities or preferred stock of or guaranteed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization", as such term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act under the Securities Act and (ii) no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, or has changed its outlook with respect to, its rating of the Securities or of any other debt securities or preferred stock of or guaranteed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading).
No Downgrade
 
(d) . No event or condition of a type described in Section 3(g) hereof shall have occurred or shall exist, which event or condition is not described in the Time of Sale Information (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto) and the Prospectus (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto) and the effect of which in the judgment of the Representatives makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
No Material Adverse Change
(e) . The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date a certificate executed by an Executive Vice President of the Company or the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company who has specific knowledge of the Company's financial matters and is satisfactory to the Representatives (i) confirming that such officer has carefully reviewed the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus and, to the best knowledge of such officer, the representations set forth in Sections 3(a) and 3(b) hereof are true and correct as of the Closing Date, (ii) confirming that the other representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct and that the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date and (iii) to the effect that no such event set forth in paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) above has occurred.
Officer's Certificate
(f) . On the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date, Ernst & Young LLP and Deloitte and Touche LLP shall have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company, letters, dated the respective dates of delivery thereof and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type customarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus; provided that the letter of Ernst & Young LLP delivered on the Closing Date shall use a "cut-off" date no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Comfort Letters
(g) . Covington & Burling LLP, and Jackson Walker L.L.P. counsel for the Company, shall have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company, their written opinions, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect set forth in Annex B and Annex C hereto, respectively.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company
(h) . Sean D. Major, General Counsel for the Company, shall have furnished to the Representatives, his written opinion, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect set forth in Annex D hereto.
Opinion of Sean D. Major
 
(i) . The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date an opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may reasonably request, and such counsel shall have received such documents and information as they may reasonably request to enable them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Counsel for the Underwriters
(j) . No action shall have been taken and no statute, rule, regulation or order shall have been enacted, adopted or issued by any federal, state or foreign governmental or regulatory authority that would, as of the Closing Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Securities or the issuance of the Guarantees; and no injunction or order of any federal, state or foreign court shall have been issued that would, as of the Closing Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Securities or the issuance of the Guarantees.
No Legal Impediment to Issuance
(k) . The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date satisfactory evidence of the good standing of the Company and its Guarantors in their respective jurisdictions of organization and their good standing in such other jurisdictions as the Representatives may reasonably request, in each case in writing or any standard form of telecommunication from the appropriate governmental authorities of such jurisdictions.
Good Standing
(l) . On or prior to the Closing Date, the Company and the Guarantors shall have furnished to the Representatives such further certificates and documents as the Representatives may reasonably request.
Additional Documents
All opinions, letters, certificates and evidence mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions hereof only if they are in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters.
7. .
Indemnification and Contribution
(a) . The Company and each of the Guarantors jointly and severally agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its affiliates, employees, directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue
Indemnification of the Underwriters
 
statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, not misleading, or (b) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
(b) . Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of the Guarantors, each of their respective directors and officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company or any of the Guarantors within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information, it being understood and agreed that the only such information consists of the information identified in the Underwriting Agreement as being provided by the Underwriters.
Indemnification of the Company
(c) . If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such person (the "Indemnified Person") shall as promptly as reasonably practicable notify the person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the "Indemnifying Person") in writing; provided that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under this Section 7 except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided, further, that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under this Section 7. If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person (who shall not, without the consent of the Indemnified Person, be counsel to the
Notice and Procedures
 
Indemnifying Person) to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 7 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of counsel related to such proceeding as incurred. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary, (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Any such separate firm for any Underwriter, its affiliates, employees, directors and officers and any control persons of such Underwriter shall be designated in writing by the Representatives and any such separate firm for the Company, the Guarantors, their respective directors and officers who signed the Registration Statement and any control persons of the Company and the Guarantors shall be designated in writing by the Company. The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (x) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (y) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
 
(d) . If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the net proceeds (before deducting expenses) received by the Company from the sale of the Securities and the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters in connection therewith, in each case as set forth in the table on the cover of the Prospectus, bear to the aggregate offering price of the Securities. The relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or any Guarantor or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Contribution
(e) . The Company, the Guarantors and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, in no event shall an Underwriter be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by such Underwriter with respect to the offering of the Securities exceeds the amount of any damages that such Underwriter has otherwise been required to
Limitation on Liability
 
pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several in proportion to their respective purchase obligations hereunder and not joint.
(f) . The remedies provided for in this Section 7 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
Non-Exclusive Remedies
8. . This Agreement may be terminated in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice to the Company, if after the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date (i) trading generally shall have been suspended or materially limited on the New York Stock Exchange or the over-the-counter market; (ii) trading of any securities issued or guaranteed by the Company or any of the Guarantors shall have been suspended on any exchange or in any over-the-counter market; (iii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities shall have been declared by federal or New York State authorities; (iv) a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States; or (v) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any change in financial markets or any calamity or crisis, either within or outside the United States, that, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
Termination
9. . (a) If, on the Closing Date, any Underwriter defaults on its obligation to purchase the Securities that it has agreed to purchase hereunder, the non-defaulting Underwriters may in their discretion arrange for the purchase of such Securities by other persons satisfactory to the Company on the terms contained in this Agreement. If, within 36 hours after any such default by any Underwriter, the non-defaulting Underwriters do not arrange for the purchase of such Securities, then the Company shall be entitled to a further period of 36 hours within which to procure other persons satisfactory to the non-defaulting Underwriters to purchase such Securities on such terms. If other persons become obligated or agree to purchase the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter, either the non defaulting Underwriters or the Company may postpone the Closing Date for up to five full business days in order to effect any changes that in the opinion of counsel for the Company or counsel for the Underwriters may be necessary in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus or in any other document or arrangement, and the Company agrees to promptly prepare any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus that effects any such changes. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes, for all purposes of this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires, any person not listed in the Underwriting Agreement that, pursuant to this Section 9, purchases Securities that a defaulting Underwriter agreed but failed to purchase.
Defaulting Underwriter
 
(b) If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters by the non-defaulting Underwriters and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased does not exceed one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, then the Company shall have the right to require each non-defaulting Underwriter to purchase the principal amount of Securities that such Underwriter agreed to purchase hereunder plus such Underwriter's pro rata share (based on the principal amount of Securities that such Underwriter agreed to purchase hereunder) of the Securities of such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters for which such arrangements have not been made.
(c) If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters by the non-defaulting Underwriters and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased exceeds one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, or if the Company shall not exercise the right described in paragraph (b) above, then this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of the non-defaulting Underwriters. Any termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Section 9 shall be without liability on the part of the Company or the Guarantors, except that the Company and each of the Guarantors will continue to be liable for the payment of expenses as set forth in Section 10 hereof and except that the provisions of Section 7 hereof shall not terminate and shall remain in effect.
(d) Nothing contained herein shall relieve a defaulting Underwriter of any liability it may have to the Company, the Guarantors or any non-defaulting Underwriter for damages caused by its default.
10. . (a) Whether or not the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, the Company and each of the Guarantors jointly and severally will pay or cause to be paid all costs and expenses incident to the performance of their respective obligations hereunder, including without limitation, (i) the costs incident to the authorization, issuance, sale, preparation and delivery of the Securities and any taxes payable in that connection; (ii) the costs incident to the preparation, printing and filing under the Securities Act of the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus (including all exhibits, amendments and supplements thereto) and the distribution thereof; (iii) the costs of reproducing and distributing each of the Transaction Documents; (iv) the fees and expenses of the Company's and the Guarantors' counsel and independent accountants; (v) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the registration or qualification and determination of eligibility for investment of the Securities under the laws of such jurisdictions as the
Payment of Expenses
 
Representatives may designate and the preparation, printing and distribution of a Blue Sky Memorandum (including the related fees and expenses of counsel for the Underwriters); (vi) any fees charged by rating agencies for rating the Securities; (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee and any paying agent (including related fees and expenses of any counsel to such parties); (viii) all expenses and application fees incurred in connection with any filing with, and clearance of any offering by, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; and (ix) all expenses incurred by the Company in connection with any "road show" presentation to potential investors.
(b) If (i) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8, (ii) the Company for any reason fails to tender the Securities for delivery to the Underwriters or (iii) the Underwriters decline to purchase the Securities for any reason permitted under this Agreement, the Company and each of the Guarantors jointly and severally agree to reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including the fees and expenses of their counsel) reasonably incurred by the Underwriters in connection with this Agreement and the offering contemplated hereby.
11. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and any controlling persons referred to herein, and the affiliates of each Underwriter referred to in Section 7 hereof. Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any other person any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision contained herein. No purchaser of Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor merely by reason of such purchase.
Persons Entitled to Benefit of Agreement
12. . In accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the Underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow the Underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
USA Patriot Act
13. . The respective indemnities, rights of contribution, representations, warranties and agreements of the Company, the Guarantors and the Underwriters contained in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of the Company, the Guarantors or the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement or any certificate delivered pursuant hereto shall survive the delivery of and payment for the Securities and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any termination of this Agreement or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Company, the Guarantors or the Underwriters.
Survival
14. . For purposes of this Agreement, (a) except where otherwise expressly provided, the term "affiliate" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act; (b) the term "business day" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City; (c) the term "subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act and (d) the term "significant subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X under the Exchange Act.
Certain Defined Terms
 
15. . (a) Authority of the Representatives. Any action by the Underwriters hereunder may be taken by the Representatives on behalf of the Underwriters, and any such action taken by the Representatives shall be binding upon the Underwriters.
Miscellaneous
(b) . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted and confirmed by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be given to the Representatives at the address set forth in the Underwriting Agreement. Notices to the Company shall be given to it at Joy Global Inc., 4400 West National Avenue, Milwaukee, WI 53214 (fax: 414.319.8520); Attention: Michael S. Olsen, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, or if different, to the address set forth in the Underwriting Agreement.
Notices
(c) . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
(d) . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
Amendments or Waivers
(e) . The headings herein are included for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of, or to affect the meaning or interpretation of, this Agreement.
Headings
 
Annex A
October 6, 2011                                
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated
As Representatives of the
several Underwriters listed
in Schedule 1 hereto
c/o Goldman, Sachs & Co.
200 West Street
New York, New York 10282-2198
c/o J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
383 Madison Avenue
New York, New York 10179
and c/o Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated
One Bryant Park
New York, New York 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Joy Global Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several Underwriters listed in Schedule 1 hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom you are acting as representatives (the "Representatives"), $500,000,000 principal amount of its 5.125% Senior Notes due 2021 having the terms set forth in Schedule 2 hereto (the "Securities"). The Securities will be issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of November 10, 2006, between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture to be dated as of October 12, 2011 among the Company, Joy Technologies Inc., P&H Mining Equipment Inc., N.E.S. Investment Co., Continental Crushing & Conveying Inc. and LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. (collectively, the "Guarantors") and the Trustee (such Indenture, as amended and supplemented, the "Indenture"), and will be guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by each of the Guarantors (the "Guarantees").
 
The Company agrees to issue and sell the Securities to the several Underwriters as provided in this Agreement, and each Underwriter, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in Schedule 1 hereto at a price equal to 98.501% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, from October 12, 2011 to the Closing Date (as defined below). The Company will not be obligated to deliver any of the Securities except upon payment for all the Securities to be purchased as provided herein.
The Company understands that the Underwriters intend to make a public offering of the Securities as soon after the effectiveness of this Agreement as in the judgment of the Representatives is advisable, and initially to offer the Securities on the terms set forth in the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus. Section 3 hereto sets forth the Time of Sale Information made available at the Time of Sale. The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Underwriters may offer and sell Securities to or through any affiliate of an Underwriter and that any such affiliate may offer and sell Securities purchased by it to or through any Underwriter.
Payment for and delivery of the Securities shall be made at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on October 12, 2011, or at such other time or place on the same or such other date, not later than the fifth business day thereafter, as the Representatives and the Company may agree upon in writing.
Payment for the Securities shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the account specified by the Company to the Representatives against delivery to the nominee of The Depository Trust Company, for the account of the Underwriters, of one or more global notes representing the Securities (collectively, the "Global Note"), with any transfer taxes payable in connection with the sale of the Securities duly paid by the Company. The Global Note will be made available for inspection by the Representatives not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the business day prior to the Closing Date.
The Company and the Underwriters acknowledge and agree that the only information that has been furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information and any Preliminary Prospectus consists of the following: the 3
rd
paragraph, the 3
rd
and 4
th
sentence of the 7
th
paragraph and the 8
th
and 9
th
paragraph under the caption "Underwriting."
 
All provisions contained in the document entitled Joy Global Inc. Debt Securities Underwriting Agreement Standard Provisions are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Underwriting Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein, except that if any term defined in such Underwriting Agreement Standard Provisions is otherwise defined herein, the definition set forth herein shall control.
This Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please indicate your acceptance of this Agreement by signing in the space provided below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accepted: October 6, 2011
GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH
INCORPORATED
For themselves and on behalf of the
several Underwriters listed
in Schedule 1 hereto.
 
 
 
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
Representatives and Addresses for Notices:
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Attention: Registration Department
200 West Street
New York, New York 10282
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
383 Madison Avenue
New York, New York 10179
(fax: 212-834-6081)
Attention: High Grade Syndicate Desk
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated
50 Rockefeller Plaza
New York, New York 10020
(fax: 212-901-7881)
Attention: High Grade Debt Capital Markets Transaction Management/Legal
Certain Terms of the Securities:
 
Guarantees: The Securities will be guaranteed by the following subsidiaries of the Company: Joy Technologies Inc., P&H Mining Equipment Inc., N.E.S. Investment Co., LeTourneau Technologies, Inc., and Continental Crushing & Conveying Inc.
 
Redemption Provisions: Callable at the greater of par or make-whole of Treasury plus 50 basis points Special Acquisition Redemption: In the event that (i) we do not consummate the 41.1% Acquisition by (a) if Joy Global receives regulatory approval of the 41.1% Acquisition from MOFCOM prior to July 1, 2012, July 1, 2012 or (b) if Joy Global has not received regulatory approval for the 41.1% Acquisition from MOFCOM prior to July 1, 2012, October 1, 2012 (in either case, the "Acquisition Deadline Date") or (ii) the share purchase agreement dated as of July 11, 2011 for such 41.1% Acquisition (the "IMM Purchase Agreement") is terminated at any time prior to the Acquisition Deadline Date, then we will have the option to redeem the Notes, in whole but not in part, on the Special Acquisition Redemption Date (as defined below) at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the interest payment date immediately preceding the Special Acquisition Redemption Date (or, if no such interest payment date has passed, the date of initial issuance) to, but excluding, the Special Acquisition Redemption Date (subject to the right of holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date). The "Special Acquisition Redemption Date" means the earlier to occur of (1) the 30th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day thereafter) after the Acquisition Deadline Date, if the 41.1% Acquisition has not been completed on or prior to the Acquisition Deadline Date, or (2) the 30th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day thereafter) following the termination of the IMM Purchase Agreement for any reason. Terms used in this paragraph and not defined are as defined in the Preliminary Prospectus.
 
Schedule 3
P&H Mining Equipment Inc.
Joy Technologies Inc.
N.E.S. Investment Co.
Continental Crushing & Conveying Inc.
LeTourneau Technologies, Inc.
 
Schedule 4
Time of Sale Information
 
 
Schedule 5
 
Issuer:
Security Description:
Size:
Maturity:
Coupon:
Price:
Yield to Maturity:
Spread to Benchmark Treasury:
Benchmark Treasury:
Benchmark Treasury Price and Yield:
Interest Payment Dates:
Redemption Provisions:
Optional Redemption:
Special Acquisition Redemption:
Joy Global Inc. ("Joy Global")
5.125% Senior Notes due 2021
$500,000,000
October 15, 2021
5.125%
99.151% of face amount
5.235%
325 basis points
2.125% due August 15, 2021
101-08 1.985%
October 15 and April 15, commencing April 15, 2012
At any time at a discount rate of Treasury plus 50 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date
In the event that (i) Joy Global does not consummate the 41.1% Acquisition by (a) if Joy Global receives regulatory approval of the 41.1% Acquisition from MOFCOM prior to July 1, 2012, July 1, 2012 or (b) if Joy Global has not received regulatory approval for the 41.1% Acquisition from MOFCOM prior to July 1, 2012, October 1, 2012 (in either case, the "Acquisition Deadline Date") or (ii) the share purchase agreement dated as of July 11, 2011 for such 41.1% Acquisition (the "IMM Purchase Agreement") is terminated at any time prior to the Acquisition Deadline Date, then Joy Global will have the option to redeem the Notes, in whole but not in part, on the Special Acquisition Redemption Date at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the interest payment date immediately preceding the Special Acquisition Redemption Date (or, if no such interest payment date has passed, the date of initial issuance) to, but excluding, the Special Acquisition Redemption Date (subject to the right of holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date).
The "Special Acquisition Redemption Date" means the earlier to occur of (1) the 30th day (or if such day is not a business day, the first business day thereafter) after the Acquisition Deadline Date, if the 41.1% Acquisition has not been completed on or prior to the Acquisition Deadline Date, or (2) the 30th day (or if such day is not a business day, the first business day thereafter) following the termination of the IMM Purchase
 
 
Change of Control:
Trade Date:
Settlement:
CUSIP/ISIN:
Denominations:
Ratings (Moody's / S&P):*
Bookrunners:
Co-Managers:
Agreement for any reason.
At 101% of principal, plus accrued and unpaid interest
to the date of repurchase
October 6, 2011
October 12, 2011 (T+3)
481165 AJ7 / US481165AJ77
$2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof
[Intentionally omitted]
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated
Mizuho Securities USA Inc.
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA), Inc.
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
 
 
*An explanation of the significance of ratings may be obtained from the ratings agencies. Generally, ratings agencies base their ratings on such material and information, and such of their own investigations, studies and assumptions, as they deem appropriate. The security ratings above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold the securities offered hereby. The ratings may be subject to review, revision, suspension, reduction or withdrawal at any time by Moody's and Standard & Poor's. Each of the security ratings above should be evaluated independently of any other security rating.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Goldman, Sachs & Co. toll-free
at 1-866-471-2526
, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC collect at 1-212-834-4533 or Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated toll-free at 1-800-294-1322.
 
Annex B
1. The Company and each Guarantor other than the Texas Guarantor (each such entity, a "" and, collectively, the "") is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation and has the corporate power and authority to execute and deliver the Company Agreements to which it is a party, to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby and to perform its respective obligations thereunder. The Company and each Covered Guarantor has duly authorized, executed and delivered the Supplemental Indenture and the Underwriting Agreement. The Company has duly authorized, executed and delivered the Base Indenture. The Company has duly authorized, executed and delivered the Notes.
Covered Guarantor
Covered Guarantors
2. Each of the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture, including the Note Guarantees contained therein, constitutes the valid and binding obligation of the Companies party thereto, enforceable against each such Company in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles. When the Notes are executed, authenticated, issued and delivered in the manner provided in the Indenture and paid for as provided in the Underwriting Agreement, the Notes will constitute the valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture. The Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "Trust Indenture Act").
3. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Act and, to our knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or threatened under the Act.
4. Except as to the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto, and other financial data included in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus and the Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 filed as Exhibit 25.1 to the Registration Statement, as to which we express no opinion, the Registration Statement, as of its effective date, each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus included in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, as of their respective dates, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Act. The Indenture conforms as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act.
5. The statements in the General Disclosure Package under the captions "Description of Notes", "Description of Debt Securities and Guarantees" and "Certain
 
Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations," insofar as such statements constitute summaries of the laws, regulations, legal matters, agreements or other legal documents referred to therein, as of 4:30 p.m. (New York time) on the date of the Underwriting Agreement (the ""), are accurate in all material respects and fairly summarize the matters referred to therein. The statements in the Prospectus under the captions "Description of Notes", "Description of Debt Securities and Guarantees" and "Certain Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations," insofar as such statements constitute summaries of the laws, regulations, legal matters, agreements or other legal documents referred to therein, as of the date of the Prospectus and as of the date hereof, are accurate in all material respects and fairly summarize the matters referred to therein.
Applicable Time
6. Each of the Company Agreements conforms in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
7. No consent, approval, authorization or other action by or filing with any governmental agency or instrumentality of the State of New York or the United States of America or under the DGCL is required on the part of any Company for the execution and delivery of any Company Agreement to which such Company is a party, the issuance and sale of the Securities, the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Company Agreements in accordance with the terms thereof, except for (i) those already obtained or made and (ii) any of the foregoing as may be required under state securities or blue sky laws and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
8. The execution, delivery and performance by the Companies of each of the Company Agreements to which each such Company is a party, the issuance and sale of the Securities and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Company Agreements in accordance with the terms thereof will not (i) violate the DGCL or any New York State or federal statute, law, rule or regulation to which such Company is subject, (ii) breach the provisions of, or cause a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon or with respect to any property or assets of any Company under any agreement listed in hereto or (iii) only in the case of the Company and each Covered Guarantor, breach the provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws of the Company or such Covered Guarantor.
Exhibit B
9. None of the Companies is, nor after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Prospectus will be, an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
Annex C
1. The Texas Guarantor is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the Texas Business Organizations Code, as amended (the ""), and has the corporate power and authority under the TBOC to execute and deliver the Company Agreements to which it is a party and to perform its obligations under such Company Agreements.
TBOC
2. The execution and delivery by the Texas Guarantor of each of the Company Agreements to which it is a party and the performance by the Texas Guarantor of its obligations thereunder have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Texas Guarantor; each of the Company Agreements to which the Texas Guarantor is a party has been duly executed and delivered by the Texas Guarantor; and each of the Company Agreements to which the Texas Guarantor is a party constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Texas Guarantor enforceable against the Texas Guarantor in accordance with its terms, in each case except as such enforcement may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, arrangement, fraudulent transfer, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally, and subject to general equity principles and to limitations on availability of equitable relief, including specific performance.
3. Neither the execution and delivery of the Company Agreements to which the Texas Guarantor is a party nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated therein will violate any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws, or, to our Knowledge: (i) conflict with or violate any statute, judgment, order, decree or regulation or rule of any court, governmental authority or arbitrator of the State of Texas applicable or relating to the Texas Guarantor or breach the provisions of, or (ii) cause a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon or with respect to any property or assets of the Texas Guarantor under any material agreement to which it is a party.
4. No consent, approval, authorization or other action by or filing with any governmental agency or instrumentality of the State of Texas is required on the part of the Texas Guarantor for the execution and delivery of any Company Agreements to which the Texas Guarantor is a party, the issuance and sale of the Securities, the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Company Agreements in accordance with the terms thereof, except for (i) those already obtained or made and (ii) any of the foregoing as may be required under state securities or blue sky laws and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
5. The Texas Guarantor is not, nor after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the General Disclosure Package and Prospectus will be, an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
Annex D
1. The Company and each Guarantor other than LeTourneau Technologies, Inc., a Texas corporation (each, a "" and, collectively, the ""), has the requisite power and authority to own its respective properties and to conduct the businesses in which it is engaged, except where the failure to have such power or authority would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. The Company and each Covered Guarantor is in good standing and is duly qualified to do business in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure to be so qualified or be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Covered Guarantor
Covered Guarantors
2. The Company has duly authorized, executed and delivered the Base Indenture.
3. The execution, delivery and performance by each Company of each of the Company Agreements to which such Company is a party, the issuance and sale of the Securities, the compliance by such Company with all applicable provisions of the Company Agreements to which such Company is a party and the consummation of the transactions therein contemplated do not conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any agreement or instrument to which such Company is a party or by which such Company is bound or to which any of its property or assets is subject, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
4. Except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, to my knowledge, there are no legal, governmental or regulatory investigations, actions, suits or proceedings pending to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, which would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 103 of Regulation S-K under the Exchange Act in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K if such report were filed on the date hereof.
5. The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, at the time they became effective or were filed with the Commission, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act (except as to the financial statements and schedules, other financial data contained therein and the Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 filed as Exhibit 25.1 to the Registration Statement, as to which I express no opinion).
 

 
 
Exhibit 4.2
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this "") is made as of October 12, 2011, by and among JOY GLOBAL INC., a Delaware corporation (along with any successor thereto, the ""), JOY TECHNOLOGIES INC., a Delaware corporation, P&H MINING EQUIPMENT INC., a Delaware corporation, N.E.S. INVESTMENT CO., a Delaware corporation, CONTINENTAL CRUSHING & CONVEYING INC., a Delaware corporation, and LETOURNEAU TECHNOLOGIES, INC., a Texas corporation, as guarantors, and WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association, as Trustee (along with any successor thereto, the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee entered into that certain Indenture dated as of November 10, 2006 (the "Base ") which provides for the issuance by the Company from time to time of Securities, in one or more Series as provided therein;
Indenture
WHEREAS, the Company has determined to issue a Series of Securities, and the Guarantors have determined to issue Guarantees of such Securities, as provided herein;
WHEREAS, Section 8.1 of the Base Indenture provides for the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee to enter into an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture to establish the form or terms of Securities of any Series as provided by Sections 2.1 and 2.3 of the Base Indenture, to provide for any guarantees of the Securities of such Series and to amend, modify or supplement the Base Indenture as it applies to such Series; and
WHEREAS, all the conditions and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture, when duly executed and delivered, a valid and binding agreement in accordance with its terms and for the purposes herein expressed, have been performed and fulfilled.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
Section 1.01. For all purposes of this Supplemental Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided for or unless the context otherwise requires:
Definitions.
(a) Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings given them in the Base Indenture;
 
(b) All references herein to Articles and Sections, unless otherwise specified, refer to the corresponding Articles and Sections of this Supplemental Indenture; and
(c) The following terms shall have the indicated definitions and if the definition of any of the following terms differs from its respective definition set forth in the Base Indenture, the definition set forth herein shall control:
"" means the acquisition by the Company of approximately 41.1% of the outstanding common stock of International Mining Machinery Holdings Limited pursuant to the IMM Purchase Agreement.
41.1% Acquisition
"" means (a) if the Company receives regulatory approval of the 41.1% Acquisition from the Anti-monopoly Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce of The People's Republic of China ("") prior to July 1, 2012, July 1, 2012 or (b) if the Company has not received regulatory approval for the 41.1% Acquisition from MOFCOM prior to July 1, 2012, October 1, 2012.
Acquisition Deadline Date
MOFCOM
"" means, on the date of any determination, the present value of the obligation of the lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended. Such present value shall be calculated using a discount rate equal to the interest rate set forth or implicit in the terms of such lease or, if not practicable to determine such rate, the weighted average interest rate per annum borne by the Notes on such date of determination, in either case compounded semi-annually. "" means the total amount of rent payable by the lessee after excluding amounts required to be paid on account of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates and similar charges.
Attributable Debt
Net rental payments
"" has the meaning specified in the recitals hereto.
Base Indenture
"" means that the Notes cease to be rated with an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any date during the period (the "") commencing on the date of the first public announcement by the Company of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period shall be extended following consummation of a Change of Control for so long as any of the Ratings Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering a possible ratings downgrade); that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event) if any of the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
Trigger Period
provided
 
which this definition would otherwise apply does not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Company in writing at its request (with a copy to the Trustee) that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
"" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is not a day on which the Trustee or banking institutions in New York, New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.05(e).
Certificated Notes
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(1) the direct or indirect sale, lease or exchange (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries;
(2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as defined above), becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's Voting Stock, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
(3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
(4) the first day on which the majority of the members of the board of directors of the Company cease to be Continuing Directors; or
(5) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company (other than in a transaction that complies with Section 2.13).
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.10(a).
Change of Control Offer
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.10(a).
Change of Control Payment
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.10(a).
Change of Control Payment Date
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event; that no Change of Control Triggering Event will be deemed to have occurred in connection with any particular Change of Control unless and until such Change of Control has actually been consummated.
Change of Control Triggering Event
provided
"" has the meaning specified in the recitals hereto.
Company
"" means the U.S. Treasury security or securities selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be used, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any redemption date,
Comparable Treasury Price
(1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or
(2) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations so received.
"" means a Subsidiary of the Company whose financial statements are consolidated with those of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Consolidated Subsidiary
"" means the total assets of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, as shown on the consolidated balance sheet in the Company's latest quarterly or annual report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Consolidated Total Assets
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the board of directors of the Company who:
Continuing Directors
 
(1) was a member of such board of directors on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or
(2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such board of directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such board of directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Covenant Defeasance
"" means the Credit Agreement dated as of October 27, 2010 entered into by and among Joy Global Inc., certain of its domestic subsidiaries, Bank of America, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, RBS Citizens, N.A., The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Mizuho Corporate Bank, and the other lenders and parties named therein, as amended and modified from time to time.
Credit Agreement
"" means, at any time, (1) all obligations of the Company and all obligations of any Consolidated Subsidiary, to the extent such obligations would appear as a liability upon the consolidated balance sheet of the Company and the Consolidated Subsidiaries, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (a) for borrowed money, (b) evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, and (c) in respect of any letters of credit supporting any Debt of others, and (2) all guarantees by the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary of Debt of others.
Debt
"" means, with respect to the Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Notes, a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that is designated to act as Depositary for such Notes as contemplated by Section 2.05.
Depositary
"" has the meaning specified Section 2.04(d).
DTC
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means (1) all Debt for money borrowed having a maturity of more than 12 months from the date as of which the determination is made or having a maturity of 12 months or less but by its terms being renewable or extendible beyond 12 months from such date at the option of the borrower (excluding any amount thereof included in current liabilities) and (2) all rental obligations payable more than 12 months from such date under leases that are capitalized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (such rental obligations to be included as Funded Debt at the amount so capitalized).
Funded Debt
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.04(d).
Global Note
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.08(a).
Guarantee
"" means the guarantors that shall initially guarantee the Notes on the Issue Date, which shall be each of Joy Technologies Inc., P&H Mining Equipment Inc., N.E.S. Investment Co., Continental Crushing & Conveying Inc. and LeTourneau Technologies, Inc., and, as the context may require, each other Subsidiary that in the future guarantees the Notes pursuant to Section 2.08(h) and any successor to any Guarantor.
Guarantor
"" means the Share Purchase Agreement, dated July 11, 2011, among TJCC Holdings Limited, Newco Hong Kong 123 Limited and the Company, as amended and restated by that certain amendment dated July 14, 2011.
IMM Purchase Agreement
"" means to, directly or indirectly, issue, assume, guaranty, incur, become directly or indirectly liable with respect to (including as a result of an acquisition (by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise)), or otherwise become responsible for, contingently or otherwise.
incur
"" means the Base Indenture, as amended, modified and supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture.
Indenture
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers selected by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, or the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement Rating Agency selected by the Company.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means the date of the initial issuance of the Notes, which shall be the date hereof.
Issue Date
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(a).
Legal Defeasance
"" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, security interest, statutory or other lien, or preference, priority or other security or similar agreement or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever, including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement having substantially the same economic effect as any of these.
Lien
"" means Moody's Investors Services.
Moody's
 
"" means, with respect to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, the aggregate amount of cash or cash equivalents received by the Company or a Consolidated Subsidiary, less the sum of all payments, fees, commissions and expenses incurred in connection with such transaction, and less the amount (estimated reasonably and in good faith by the Company) of income, franchise, sales and other applicable taxes required to be paid by the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary in connection with such transaction in the taxable year that such transaction is consummated or in the two immediately succeeding taxable years, the computation of which shall take into account the reduction in tax liability resulting from any available operating losses and net operating loss carryovers, tax credits and tax credit carryforwards, and similar tax attributes.
Net Proceeds
"" means indebtedness or lease payment obligations substantially related to (i) the acquisition of assets not previously owned by the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary or (ii) the financing of a project involving the development or expansion of the Company's or any Consolidated Subsidiary's properties, in either case, as to which the obligee with respect to such indebtedness or obligation has no recourse to the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary or any Subsidiaries' assets other than the assets which were acquired with the proceeds of such transaction or the project financed with the proceeds of such transaction (and the proceeds thereof).
Nonrecourse Obligation
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01.
Notes
"" means members of, or participants in, the Depositary.
Participants
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Reference Treasury Dealer."
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" means any manufacturing plant, warehouse or other similar facility or any parcel of real estate or group of contiguous parcels of real estate owned or leased by the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary and the gross book value, without deduction of any depreciation reserves, of which on the date as of which the determination is being made exceeds 1% of Consolidated Total Assets.
Principal Property
"" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's board of directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both, as the case may be.
Rating Agency
"" means each of Goldman, Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, and
Reference Treasury Dealer
 
one other nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a Primary Treasury Dealer to be selected by the Company, and their respective successors (a ""), unless any of them ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in the United States, in which case the Company will substitute another nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a Primary Treasury Dealer.
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.05.
Register of Notes
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.05.
Registrar
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services.
S&P
"" means any arrangement whereby the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has sold or transferred, or will sell or transfer, property and has or will take back a lease pursuant to which the rental payments are calculated to amortize the purchase price of the property substantially over the useful life of such property.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
"" means any of the Company's Subsidiaries that would be a "" within the meaning of Rule 1-02 under Regulation S-X promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Significant Subsidiary
Significant Subsidiary
"" means the earlier to occur of (1) the 30th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day thereafter) after the Acquisition Deadline Date, if the 41.1% Acquisition has not been completed on or prior to the Acquisition Deadline Date, or (2) the 30th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day thereafter) following the termination of the IMM Purchase Agreement for any reason.
Special Acquisition Redemption Date
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.09(b).
Special Acquisition Redemption Trigger
"" means a corporation, a majority of the outstanding Voting Stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company and/or by one or more of its other Subsidiaries, a partnership in which the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company is, at the time, a general partner, and any other entity
Subsidiary
 
in which the Company and/or one of its Subsidiaries, directly or indirectly, has a majority ownership interest.
"" has the meaning specified in the recitals hereto.
Supplemental Indenture
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per year equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated on the third Business Day preceding the redemption date, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that redemption date.
Treasury Rate
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Below Investment Grade Rating Event."
Trigger Period
"" has the meaning specified in the recitals hereto.
Trustee
"" of any specified person as of any date means the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
The following provisions of this Article 2 are made pursuant to Section 2.1 of the Base Indenture in order to establish and set forth the terms of a Series of Securities. In the event that any of the following terms conflict with those set forth in the Base Indenture, the terms set forth herein shall control.
Section 2.01. There is hereby established a Series of Securities designated the "5.125% Senior Notes due 2021" (the "").
Title of Securities.
Notes
Section 2.02.
Aggregate Principal Amount of Notes; Additional Notes.
(a) There are initially to be authenticated and delivered $500,000,000 principal amount of the Notes.
(b) At any time and from time to time after the Issue Date there may be authenticated and delivered an unlimited principal amount of additional Notes without the consent of any Holder of the Notes. Any such additional Notes will have the same ranking, interest rate, maturity date, redemption rights and other terms as any outstanding Notes, other than with respect to the date of issuance, the issue price and, in some cases, the first interest payment date. All Notes issued
 
hereunder, including any additional Notes, will constitute a single Series of Securities under the Indenture;, , that any such additional Notes that are not fungible with the Notes issued on the Issue Date for United States federal income tax purposes shall be issued with CUSIP and ISIN numbers different from the CUSIP and ISIN numbers assigned to the Notes issued on the Issue Date.
provided
however
(c) Nothing contained in this Section 2.02 or elsewhere in the Indenture, or in the Notes, is intended to or shall limit execution by the Company or authentication or delivery by the Trustee of Notes under the circumstances contemplated by Sections 2.8, 2.9, 2.11 and 8.5 of the Base Indenture.
Section 2.03.
Authentication and Delivery of the Notes.
(a) At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, the Company may deliver Notes executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver such Notes to or upon the written order of the Company, signed by both (i) the chairman of its Board of Directors, or any vice chairman of its Board of Directors, or its president or any vice president and (ii) its treasurer, any assistant treasurer, its secretary or any assistant secretary, without further action by the Company. In authenticating such Notes and accepting the additional responsibilities under the Indenture in relation to such Notes, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive and (subject to Section 6.1 of the Base Indenture) shall be fully protected in relying upon:
(i) an Officers' Certificate prepared in accordance with Section 11.7 of the Base Indenture; and
(ii) an Opinion of Counsel prepared in accordance with Section 11.7 of the Base Indenture, which shall state that the Base Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture, the Notes and the Guarantees have been duly authorized and, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company and the Guarantors, as applicable, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles, regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
(b) The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any Notes under this Section if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determined that such action may not lawfully be taken by the Company or if the
 
issue of such Notes pursuant to the Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Indenture in a manner not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Notes have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Notes to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 2.10 of the Base Indenture, together with a written statement (which need not comply with Section 11.7 of the Base Indenture and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) stating that such Notes have never been issued and sold by the Company, for all purposes of the Indenture such Notes shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
(d) Notwithstanding anything in the Indenture to the contrary, authentication and execution of any Notes by counterpart shall satisfy the requirements of the Indenture with respect to the authentication and execution of such Notes.
Section 2.04.
Payment of Principal and Interest on the Notes; Form of the Notes; Global Notes.
(a) The Notes will mature on October 15, 2021 and will bear interest at the rate of 5.125% per annum. Interest on the Notes will be payable semi-annually, in cash, in arrears on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing on April 15, 2012, to the Holders thereof at the close of business on the immediately preceding April 1 and October 1 of each year. Interest on the Notes will accrue from and including the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from and including the date of issuance of the Notes. Interest on the Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
(b) The Notes shall be issued in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
(c) The Notes shall be issued in registered form without coupons, substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto. The form of the Trustee's certificate of authentication for the Notes shall be in substantially the form set forth in the form of Note attached hereto as Exhibit A. Each Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof.
(d) The entire initially issued principal amount of the Notes shall initially be evidenced by one or more Global Securities (collectively, the "") registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee for The Depository Trust Company (""), or another nominee of DTC. The Company initially appoints DTC to act as Depositary with respect to the Global Notes and the
Global Notes
DTC
 
Trustee to act as custodian with respect to the Global Notes. So long as the Depositary, or its nominee, is the registered Holder and owner of the Global Notes, the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, will be considered the sole owner and Holder of the Notes for all purposes under the Indenture.
Section 2.05.
Registration, Transfer and Exchange.
(a) The Company shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee a register of Notes (the register maintained in such office and in any other office or agency of the Company in a place of payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Notes and of transfers of Notes. The Trustee is hereby appointed "" for the purpose of registering the Notes and transfers of the Notes as herein provided. The Company may appoint one or more co-Registrars with respect to the Notes and the term "" includes any co-Registrar. The Registrar shall retain copies of all letters, notices and other written communications received pursuant to Section 2.8 of the Base Indenture or this Section 2.05. The Company shall have the right to inspect and make copies of all such letters, notices or other written communications at any reasonable time upon the giving of reasonable written notice to the Registrar.
Registrar; Register of Notes.
Register of Notes
Registrar
Registrar
(b) The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under the Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Note (including any transfers between or among Participants or beneficial owners of interests in any Global Note) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, the Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof. Neither the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall have any responsibility for the actions or omissions of the Depositary, or the accuracy of the books and records of the Depositary.
No Obligation of the Trustee.
(c)
Transfers of Notes and Interests in Notes.
(i) The Registrar shall not be required (i) to issue, authenticate, register the transfer of or exchange Notes for a period of 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of such Notes to be redeemed or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange of any Notes so selected for redemption in whole or in part.
(ii) All Notes issued upon any transfer or exchange of Notes shall be valid and binding obligations of the Company, evidencing the
 
same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under the Indenture, as the Notes surrendered upon such transfer or exchange.
(iii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2.05, unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Certificated Notes, the Global Notes may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of such Depositary, or by a nominee of such Depositary to such Depositary or another nominee of such Depositary, or by such Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
(iv) Ownership of interests in the Global Notes will be shown on, and the transfer of those ownership interests will be effected through, records maintained by the Depositary (with respect to Participants' interests) and such Participants (with respect to the owners of beneficial interests in such Global Notes).
(d) . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Certificated Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Certificated Notes, the principal amount of Notes represented by such Global Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on the Schedule of Increases or Decreases to such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on the Schedule of Increases or Decreases to such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation or Adjustment of Global Notes
(e) .
Certificated Notes
(i) If at any time the Depositary (A) notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Global Notes and the Depositary fails to appoint a successor Depositary or (B) ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, then the Company shall appoint a successor Depositary eligible under applicable law with respect to such Global Notes. If a successor Depositary eligible to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act for such Global Notes is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the date
 
Company receives such notice or becomes aware of the unwillingness, inability or ineligibility of the Depositary set forth in clauses (A) and (B) above, the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of the Company's order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Notes of such series and tenor (""), will authenticate and deliver such Certificated Notes, in any authorized denominations, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such Global Notes, in exchange for such Global Notes.
Certificated Notes
(ii) In addition, if either (A) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of the Certificated Notes or (B) there has occurred and is continuing a default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes and the Depositary requests Certificated Notes, then in either such case, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of the Company's order for the authentication and delivery of Certificated Notes, will authenticate and deliver, Certificated Notes in any authorized denominations, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Notes, in exchange for such Global Notes.
(iii) Any time the Notes are to be authenticated and delivered in the form of Certificated Notes, the Company agrees to supply the Trustee with a reasonable supply of Certificated Notes without the legend required by Section 2.06(a) and the Trustee agrees to hold such Notes in safekeeping until authenticated and delivered pursuant to the terms of the Indenture.
(iv) The Depositary may surrender one or more Global Notes in exchange in whole or in part for Certificated Notes as provided herein on such terms as are acceptable to the Company and such Depositary. Thereupon, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, without service charge,
(A) to the Person specified by such Depositary new Notes of the same series and tenor, of any authorized denominations as requested by such Person, in an aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for such Person's beneficial interest in the Global Note; and
(B) to such Depositary a new Global Note in a denomination equal to the difference, if any, between the principal amount of the surrendered Global Note and the aggregate principal amount of Notes authenticated and delivered pursuant to clause (A) above.
 
(v) Notes issued in exchange for a Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.05 shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary for such Global Note, pursuant to instructions from its Participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee or an agent of the Company or the Trustee. The Trustee or such agent shall deliver such Notes to or as directed by the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered.
Section 2.06. .
Legends
(a) Each Global Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
THIS SECURITY IS A SECURITY IN GLOBAL FORM WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED OR TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
Section 2.07The Company initially appoints the Trustee to act as the Paying Agent with respect to the Notes. The Company may appoint one or more additional Paying Agents, and the term "" includes any additional Paying Agent. The Corporate Trust Offices of the Trustee shall be the initial Place of Payment. The office of any additional Paying Agent shall also be a Place of Payment.
. Paying Agent; Custodian; Place of Payment.
Paying Agent
 
Section 2.08. .
Subsidiary Guarantees
(a) . Each Guarantor hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees (each such guarantee is referred to herein as a ""), jointly and severally, as primary obligor and not merely as surety, to each Holder of the Notes and to the Trustee, the prompt payment when due (whether by acceleration or otherwise) at the place and in the manner provided in the terms of the Notes and in the Indenture of: (i) the principal of, premium, if any, interest, if any, and additional amounts required by the Notes, if any, on each of the Notes at the respective times provided in the terms of the Notes and in the Indenture in respect of the Notes, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise and whether any such amounts are allowed or allowable in any bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company, (ii) interest on any overdue amounts specified in the terms of the Notes and in the Indenture in respect of the Notes, and (iii) all other amounts payable by the Company under the Indenture in respect of the Notes or under the Notes including, without limitation, amounts payable to the Trustee or the Holders under Section 6.6 and Article Five of the Base Indenture in respect of the Notes, all in accordance with the terms hereof and the terms of the Notes, subject, however, in the case of clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above, to the limitations set forth in this Section 2.08. In case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or of any such other payment obligations, each Guarantor hereby agrees to pay promptly such Notes in full when due in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. This is a guarantee of payment and not of collection. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, each Guarantor hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be absolutely unconditional, irrespective of any lack of validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or the Indenture, any failure to enforce the same, any waiver or consent to the Company with respect thereto by any Holder or the Trustee, or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, each Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenants that this Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes, the Indenture and in this Guarantee. If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, any Guarantor, or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to the Company or any Guarantor, any amount paid by the Company or any Guarantor to the Trustee or such Holder, this Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, each Guarantor further agrees that, as between each Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be
Unconditional Guarantee
Guarantee
 
accelerated as provided in Article Five of the Base Indenture in respect of the Notes for the purposes of this Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article Five of the Base Indenture in respect of the Notes, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by each Guarantor for the purpose of this Guarantee.
(b) . In case any provision of this Guarantee shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
(c) . Each Guarantor, and by its acceptance hereof each Holder of the Notes, hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such parties that the guarantee by such Guarantor pursuant to its Guarantee not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of any bankruptcy law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar Federal or state law. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Holders of the Notes and such Guarantor hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of such Guarantor under the Guarantee shall be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor and after giving effect to any collections from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under its Guarantee, result in the obligations of such Guarantor under the Guarantee not constituting such fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
Limitation of Guarantor's Liability
(d) . The Guarantee will, so long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, be automatically and unconditionally released without any action on the part of the Trustee or the Holders of the Notes: (i) with respect to a Guarantor which no longer borrows or guarantees any amounts under (A) the Credit Agreement or (B) any credit agreement that replaces or refinances the Credit Agreement and under which the Company may borrow not less than $50.0 million; (ii) unless the Guarantor is the surviving entity, (A) upon any sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Guarantor's assets to any Person not an affiliate of Company or (B) upon any sale, exchange or transfer, to any Person not an affiliate of the Company, of all of the Company's direct and indirect interest in such Guarantor; (iii) upon the payment in full of the Notes; or (iv) discharge of the Notes pursuant to Section 10.1 of the Base Indenture. The Trustee shall deliver an appropriate instrument evidencing such release upon receipt of a request by the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel certifying as to the compliance with this Section 2.08(d).
Release of Guarantor
 
(e) . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, until all the Notes and all other payment obligations of the Company hereunder or under any Notes are paid in full, each Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives any claims or other rights which it may now or hereafter acquire against the Company that arise from the existence, payment, or enforcement of such Guarantor's obligations under the Guarantee and the Indenture, including, without limitation, any right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, indemnification, and any right to participate in any claim or remedy of any Holder of the Notes against the Company, whether or not such claim, remedy or right arises in equity, or under contract, statute or common law, including, without limitation, the right to take or receive from the Company, directly or indirectly, in cash or other property or by set-off or in any other manner, payment or security on account of such claim or other rights. If any amount shall be paid to any Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence and the Notes shall not have been paid in full, such amount shall have been deemed to have been paid to such Guarantor for the benefit of, and held in trust for the benefit of, the Holders of the Notes, and shall, forthwith be paid to the Trustee for the benefit of such Holders to be credited and applied upon the Notes, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture. Each Guarantor acknowledges that it will receive direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by the Indenture and that the waiver set forth in this Section 2.08(e) is knowingly made in contemplation of such benefits.
Waiver of Subrogation
(f) . Each Guarantor covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it shall not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury law or other law which would prohibit or forgive the Guarantor from performing its Guarantee as contemplated herein, wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, or which may affect the covenants or the performance of the Indenture; and (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) each Guarantor hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it shall not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws
(g) . A Guarantor may not directly or indirectly sell, lease or exchange all or substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving person), another Person, other than the Company or another Guarantor, unless immediately after giving effect to that transaction, no default or Event of Default exists and the person acquiring the property in any such sale or disposition or the person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger assumes all the obligations of that Guarantor
Guarantor Consolidation, Merger, Conveyance, Transfer or Lease
 
hereunder and under the Indenture pursuant to a supplemental indenture satisfactory to the Trustee or by operation of law.
(h) . If, after the Issue Date, (a) any Subsidiary of the Company shall become a guarantor under (1) the Credit Agreement or (2) any credit agreement that replaces or refinances the Credit Agreement and under which the Company may borrow not less than $50.0 million, or (b) if LeTourneau Technologies Drilling Systems, Inc. ("") is a guarantor of the Credit Agreement on or after February 29, 2012, then the Company shall promptly cause any such Subsidiary or LDS, as the case may be, to become a Guarantor (each such additional Guarantor, an "") by causing such Additional Guarantor to execute and deliver a supplemental indenture to the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of Article 8 of the Base Indenture, which such supplemental indenture shall evidence the Guarantee of such Additional Guarantor under the Indenture in respect of the Notes. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Indenture, in no event shall any of LeTourneau Technologies America, Inc., LeTourneau Technologies Brazil, Inc., LeTourneau Technologies International, Inc. and LeTourneau Technologies South America, Inc. be required to become a Guarantor under the Indenture in respect of the Notes. Any supplemental indenture entered into and delivered pursuant to this Section 2.08(h) shall provide such Additional Guarantor's address for notice pursuant to Section 11.4 of the Base Indenture.
Additional Guarantors
LDS
Additional Guarantor
Section 2.09.
Redemption.
(a) . The Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of the Notes at any time and from time to time at a redemption price equal to the greater of the following amounts, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to, but excluding, the applicable redemption date:
Optional Redemption
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
(ii) the sum of the present values of the principal amount and the remaining scheduled payments of interest on the Notes to be redeemed (not including any portion of payments of interest accrued as of the applicable redemption date), discounted to the applicable Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis at a rate equal to the sum of the Treasury Rate plus 0.50%.
The redemption price of Notes to be redeemed under this Section 2.09(a) will be calculated assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Notice of any redemption of Notes will be mailed by the Company, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the applicable redemption date, to each holder of the
 
Notes to be redeemed as provided in Section 11.6 of the Base Indenture. If the Company redeems less than all of the Notes, and the Notes are Global Notes, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Depositary in accordance with its procedures. If the Notes to be redeemed are not Global Notes, the Trustee will select the particular Notes to be redeemed by lot, on a pro rata basis or by another method the Trustee deems fair and appropriate and as otherwise provided in the Indenture.
Unless the Company defaults in the payment of the redemption price, on and after the applicable redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions of the Notes called for redemption.
(b) . In the event that (i) the Company does not consummate the 41.1% Acquisition by the Acquisition Deadline Date or (ii) the IMM Purchase Agreement is terminated at any time prior to the Acquisition Deadline Date (in either case, a ""), then the Company shall have the option to redeem the Notes, in whole but not in part, on the Special Acquisition Redemption Date at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the interest payment date immediately preceding the Special Acquisition Redemption Date (or, if no such interest payment date has passed, the Issue Date) to, but excluding, the Special Acquisition Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date).
Special Acquisition Redemption
Special Acquisition Redemption Trigger
If the Company elects to redeem the Notes pursuant to this Section 2.09(b), the Company will cause notice of such redemption to be mailed, with a copy to the Trustee, to each Holder at its registered address within five Business Days after the applicable Special Acquisition Redemption Trigger. If funds sufficient to pay the special acquisition redemption price of all Notes to be redeemed on the Special Acquisition Redemption Date are deposited with the Trustee on or before such Special Acquisition Redemption Date, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Special Acquisition Redemption Date, the Notes will cease to bear interest and all rights under the Notes shall terminate (other than in respect of the right of Holders to receive the special acquisition redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest).
Section 2.10.
Change of Control.
(a) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its redemption rights under Section 2.09, each Holder of the Notes shall have the right to require the Company to make an offer (a "") to each Holder to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of each Holder's outstanding Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate
Change of Control Offer
 
principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the ""). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of the Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and stating: (1) that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 2.10 and that all Notes properly tendered will be accepted for payment; (2) the purchase price and the purchase date, which shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ""); (3) if mailed prior to the date of the consummation of the Change of Control, that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the payment specified in the notice; (4) that any Security not tendered will continue to accrue interest; (5) that, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Payment, all Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer shall cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Payment Date; (6) that Holders electing to have any Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender the Notes, with the form entitled "" on the reverse of the Notes completed, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice prior to the close of business on the third Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date; (7) that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election if the Paying Agent receives, not later than the close of business on the second Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of Notes delivered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have the Notes purchased; and (8) that Holders whose Notes are being purchased only in part will be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, which unpurchased portion must be equal to $2,000 in principal amount or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of Notes in connection with a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this Section 2.10, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 2.10 by virtue of such conflict. In the event that the Notes cease to be rated with an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any date during the Trigger Period, the Company shall request in writing from each Rating Agency (with a copy to the Trustee) the reason for such reduction and whether such reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control.
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
Option of Holder to Elect Purchase
 
(b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, (1) accept for payment all Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (2) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions thereof properly tendered and (3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions thereof being purchased by the Company. The Paying Agent shall promptly deliver to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Company shall promptly execute, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and deliver (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder, a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Note surrendered by such Holder, if any; , that each such new Note shall be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The Company shall publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
provided
The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third Person makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 2.10 and all other provisions of the Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
Section 2.11The Notes shall not have the benefit of a sinking fund.
. Sinking Fund.
Section 2.12If a Holder has given wire transfer instructions to the Company at least ten Business Days prior to the applicable payment date, the Company will make all payments on such Holder's Notes in accordance with those instructions. Otherwise, payments on the Notes will be made at the office or agency of the Paying Agent and Registrar for the Notes; , , that the Company may, at its option, elect to make interest payments by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders; , , that with respect to Notes represented by Global Notes, the Company shall make payments of principal and interest by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account specified by the Depositary.
. Methods of Receiving Payments on the Notes.
provided
however
provided
further
Section 2.13, , , The Company may not consolidate or merge with or into another Person, or directly or indirectly sell, lease or exchange all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to another Person, unless:
. Consolidation
Merger
Conveyance
Transfer or Lease.
 
(a) the Company is the surviving entity or, if not, the successor entity formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or which acquires or leases all or substantially all of the Company's assets is organized and existing under the laws of any U.S. jurisdiction and expressly assumes the Company's obligations with respect to the Notes and under the Indenture;
(b) no default or Event of Default exists or will occur immediately after giving effect to the transaction; and
(c) the Company has delivered to the Trustee the Officers' Certificates and Opinions of Counsel required under the Indenture.
Section 2.14. .
Limitation on Liens
(a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Consolidated Subsidiary to, incur any Debt secured by a Lien on any Principal Property or any shares of capital stock of any Consolidated Subsidiary (in each case, whether now owned or hereafter acquired) without making effective provision that the Notes shall be secured equally and ratably with (or prior to) such secured Debt, unless, after giving effect to incurrence of such Debt and any simultaneous permanent repayment of any secured Debt, the aggregate amount of all Debt secured by a Lien on any Principal Property or on any shares of capital stock of any Consolidated Subsidiary, together with all Attributable Debt of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries in respect of Sale and Lease-Back Transactions involving Principal Properties, would not exceed 10% of the Consolidated Total Assets of the Company and the Consolidated Subsidiaries. The aggregate amount of all secured Debt referred to in the preceding sentence shall exclude any then existing secured Debt that has been secured equally and ratably with the Notes.
(b) The restriction set forth in Section 2.14(a) shall not apply to, and there shall be excluded from all Debt so secured in any computation under the restriction in Section 2.14(a) or under the restriction in Section 2.15, Debt secured by:
(i) Liens on any property or shares of capital stock existing at the time of acquisition thereof; that (A) any such Lien was (1) in existence prior to the date of such acquisition, (2) was not incurred in anticipation thereof and (3) does not extend to any other property, and (B) the principal amount of Debt secured by each such Lien does not exceed the cost to the Company or such Consolidated Subsidiary of the property subject to the Lien, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
provided
(ii) Liens in favor of the Company or a Consolidated Subsidiary;
 
(iii) Liens in favor of governmental bodies to secure progress or advance payments pursuant to any contract or provision of any statute;
(iv) Liens created or incurred in connection with an industrial revenue bond, industrial development bond, pollution control bond or similar financing arrangement between the Company or a Consolidated Subsidiary and any federal, state or municipal government or other governmental body or quasi-governmental agency;
(v) Liens on property or shares of capital stock to secure all or part of the cost of acquiring (including, without limitation, acquisitions through merger or consolidation), substantially repairing or altering, constructing, developing or substantially improving the property, or to secure Debt incurred for any such purpose; that any such Lien relates solely to the property subject to the Lien and that the principal amount of Debt secured by each such Lien was incurred concurrently with, or within 18 months of, such acquisition (including, without limitation, acquisitions through merger or consolidation), repair, alteration, construction (or the commencement of commercial operation of such property, whichever is later), development or improvement and does not exceed the cost to the Company or such Consolidated Subsidiary of the property subject to the Lien, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
provided
(vi) Liens on property or shares of capital stock of any corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Subsidiary;
(vii) Liens in favor of a governmental agency to qualify the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary to do business, maintain self insurance or obtain other benefits, or Liens under workers' compensation laws, unemployment insurance laws or similar legislation;
(viii) Liens imposed by law, such as laborers' or other employees', carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's and vendors' Liens;
(ix) Liens arising out of judgments or awards against the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary with respect to which the Company or such Consolidated Subsidiary at the time shall be prosecuting an appeal or proceedings for review;
(x) Liens for taxes, assessments, governmental charges or levies not yet subject to penalties for nonpayment or the amount or validity of which is being in good faith contested by appropriate proceedings by the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary, as the case may be; and
 
(xi) any refinancing, refunding, extension, renewal or replacement, in whole or in part, of any Lien referred to above; that such refinancing, refunding, extension, renewal or replacement Lien will be limited to the same property that secured the Lien so refinanced, refunded, extended, renewed or replaced and will not exceed the principal amount of Debt so secured at the time of such refinancing, refunding, extension, renewal or replacement and that such principal amount of Debt so secured shall continue to be included in the computation in the first paragraph of this covenant and under Section 2.15 to the extent so included at the time of such refinancing, refunding, extension, renewal or replacement.
provided
For purposes of this Section 2.14, an "acquisition" of property (including real, personal or intangible property or shares of capital stock or Debt) shall include any transaction or series of transactions by which the Company or a Consolidated Subsidiary acquires, directly or indirectly, an interest, or an additional interest (to the extent thereof), in such property, including an acquisition through merger or consolidation with, or an acquisition of an interest in, a Person owning an interest in such property.
Section 2.15. .
Limitation on Sale and Lease-Back Transactions
(a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries to, enter into any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction with respect to any Principal Property unless:
(i) after giving effect thereto, the aggregate amount of all Attributable Debt of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries with respect to Sale and Lease-Back Transactions involving Principal Properties plus the aggregate amount of Debt secured by Liens on any Principal Property or on any shares of capital stock of any Consolidated Subsidiary incurred without equally and ratably securing the Securities pursuant to Section 2.14 would not exceed 10% of the Consolidated Total Assets of the Company and the Consolidated Subsidiaries; or
(ii) within 360 days of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction involving a Principal Property, the Company or such Consolidated Subsidiary applies to (A) the prepayment or retirement, and in either case, the permanent reduction, of Funded Debt of the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary (including that in the case of a revolver or similar arrangement that makes credit available, such commitment is so permanently reduced by such amount); or (B) the purchase of other property that will constitute Principal Property, an amount not less than the greater of:
 
(1) the Net Proceeds of the Sale and Lease-Back Transaction; and
(2) the fair market value of the Principal Property so leased at the time of such transaction.
(b) The restriction set forth in Section 2.15(a) shall not apply to any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction, and there shall be excluded from Attributable Debt in any computation described in this Section 2.15 or in Section 2.14 with respect to any such transaction:
(i) pursuant to which the Company or a Consolidated Subsidiary would be permitted to create Funded Debt secured by a Lien pursuant to the exceptions listed in Section 2.14(b) on the Principal Property to be leased, in an amount equal to the Attributable Debt with respect to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, without equally and ratably securing the notes;
(ii) solely between the Company and a Consolidated Subsidiary or solely between Consolidated Subsidiaries;
(iii) financed through an industrial revenue bond, industrial development bond, pollution control bond or similar financing arrangement between the Company or a Consolidated Subsidiary and any federal, state or municipal government or other governmental body or quasi-governmental agency;
(iv) in which the applicable lease is for a period, including renewal rights, of three years or less;
(v) as to which the effective date of any such arrangement or the purchaser's commitment therefore is within 270 days prior or subsequent to the acquisition of the Principal Property (including, without limitation, acquisition by merger or consolidation) or the completion of construction and commencement of operation thereof, whichever is later; or
(vi) in which the lease payment is created in connection with a project financed with, and such obligation constitutes, a Nonrecourse Obligation.
Section 2.16. .
Additional Events of Default
Pursuant to Section 5.1(f) of the Base Indenture the following is an additional Event of Default:
 
a default by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any indebtedness for money borrowed of at least $10.0 million aggregate principal amount by the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries), other than indebtedness owed to the Company or a Significant Subsidiary, whether such indebtedness or guarantee now exists, or is created after the date of the indenture, which default:
(a) is caused by a failure to pay principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on such indebtedness prior to the expiration of any grace period provided in such indebtedness; or
(b) results in the acceleration of such indebtedness prior to its maturity.
Section 2.17In addition to those matters set forth in the Indenture, the following modifications or amendments to the Indenture may not be made without the consent of each of the Holders of the Notes so affected:
. Modification and Waiver.
(a) reduce the amount of principal payable upon acceleration of the maturity of the Notes;
(b) change the place or currency of payment of principal, or premium, if any, or interest on the Notes;
(c) reduce the percentage in aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes, the consent of the Holders of which is required for any waiver provided for in the Indenture;
(d) modify any of the waiver provisions, except to increase any required percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of the Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding Note affected thereby;
(e) cause any Note to become subordinate in right of payment to any other Debt, except to the extent provided in the terms of such Note; or
(f) impair the right of any Holder of the Notes to require repurchase of the Notes on the terms provided in the Indenture.
Section 2.18The Company may elect to have subsection (a) below, at the Company's option and at any time, or subsection (b) below, at the
. Defeasance.
 
Company's option and at any time, of this Supplemental Indenture applied to all Outstanding Notes upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Section 2.18.
(a) Upon the Company's exercise of its option under this Section 2.18(a) with respect to the Outstanding Notes, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to all Outstanding Notes on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, ""). For this purpose, such Legal Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by the Outstanding Notes, and the Indenture shall cease to be of further effect as to all the Outstanding Notes, except as to be deemed to be Outstanding only for the purposes of the Sections of the Indenture referred to in (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) below, and the Company shall be deemed to have satisfied all other of its obligations under the Outstanding Notes and the Indenture (and the Trustee, on written demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (i) Holders will be entitled to receive timely payments for the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, the Notes from the funds deposited for that purpose; (ii) the Company's obligations will continue with respect to the issuance of temporary Notes, the registration of Notes, and the replacement of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes; (iii) the Trustee will retain its rights, powers, duties, and immunities, and the Company will retain its obligations in connection therewith; and (iv) other Legal Defeasance provisions of the Indenture will remain in effect. Subject to compliance with this Section 2.18, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 2.18 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 2.18(b) hereof with respect to the Notes.
Legal Defeasance
(b) Upon the Company's exercise of its option under this Section 2.18(b), the Company shall be released from its obligations under Sections 2.10, 2.14 and 2.15 hereunder with respect to all Outstanding Notes, on and after the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, ""), and the Outstanding Notes shall thereafter be deemed not Outstanding for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) of the Notes in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed Outstanding for all other purposes hereunder and under the Indenture. For this purpose, such Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the Outstanding Notes , the Company shall not need to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant with respect to such Notes, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute an Event of Default under Section 5.1 of the Base Indenture or
Covenant Defeasance
 
hereunder with respect to such Notes, but, except as specified above, the remainder of the Indenture and the Notes shall be unaffected thereby.
(c) The following shall be the conditions to the application of either Section 2.18(a) or 2.18(b) hereof to any Notes to be defeased:
(i) (A) The Company shall irrevocably deposit with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes as to which Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance will occur, U.S. legal tender, U.S. Government Obligations, a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants, expressed in a written certification thereof to the Trustee, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on such Notes on the stated date for payment thereof or on the redemption date of such principal or installment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on such Notes, and the Holders of such Notes must have a valid, perfected, exclusive security interest in such trust; (B) in the case of Legal Defeasance, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that: (1) the Company has received from, or there has been published by the Internal Revenue Service, a ruling or (2) since the date of the Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of such Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred; (C) in the case of Covenant Defeasance, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States reasonably acceptable to such Trustee confirming that the Holders of such Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred; (D) no Event of Default with respect to such Notes shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or insofar as Events of Default from bankruptcy or insolvency events are concerned, at any time in the period ending on the 91st day after the date of deposit; (E) such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under the Indenture or any other material agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is bound; (F) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Company with the
 
intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding any other creditors of the Company; and (G) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that the conditions precedent provided for in, in the case of the Officers' Certificate, (A) through (F) and, in the case of the Opinion of Counsel, clauses (A) (with respect to the validity and perfection of the security interest), (B), (C) and (E) of this paragraph have been complied with and the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel (which may contain customary qualifications and exceptions, including, without limitation, an assumption that there has been no intervening bankruptcy of the Company between the date of deposit and the 91st day following the deposit and an assumption that no Holder of such Notes is an "" of the Company under applicable Federal bankruptcy law), after the 91st day following the deposit, the trust funds will not be subject to the effect of any applicable Federal bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and the creation of the defeasance trust does not violate the Investment Company Act of 1940. The defeasance will be effective on the earlier of (i) the 91st day after the date of deposit, and (ii) the day on which all the conditions above have been satisfied.
insider
(ii) If the funds deposited with the Trustee to effect Covenant Defeasance are insufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes to be so defeased when due, then the obligations of the Company under the Indenture with respect to the Notes will be revived and no such defeasance will be deemed to have occurred.
(d) Subject to Section 2.18(e), all cash and U.S. Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 2.18(d)), the Paying Agent pursuant to Section 2.18(c) in respect of any Notes to be defeased shall be held in trust and applied by the Paying Agent, in accordance with the provisions of such Notes and the Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any other Paying Agent as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Notes of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the U.S. Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 2.18(c) or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of such Notes.
(e) Anything in this Section 2.18 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee or the Paying Agent shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon the request of the Company any cash or U.S. Government Obligations
 
held by it as provided in Section 2.18(c) which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee (which may be an opinion delivered under Section 2.18(c)(i) hereof), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
(f) If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any cash or U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with Section 2.18(a) or (b), as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under the Indenture with respect to such Notes affected and such Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 2.18(a) or (b) until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply such money in accordance with Section 2.18(a) and (b) hereof, as the case may be; , , that, if the Company makes any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any such Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the cash or U.S. Government Obligations held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
provided
however
Section 2.19.. Section 3.7 of the Base Indenture shall not apply to the Notes.
Original Issue Discount
Section 3.01The recitals in this Supplemental Indenture are made by the Company and the Guarantors only and not by the Trustee, and all of the provisions contained in the Base Indenture in respect of the rights, privileges, immunities, powers and duties of the Trustee shall be applicable in respect of the Notes, the Guarantees and of this Supplemental Indenture as fully and with like effect as if set forth herein in full.
. Recitals By Company and Guarantors.
Section 3.02Each and every term and condition contained in this Supplemental Indenture that modifies, amends or supplements the terms and conditions of the Base Indenture shall apply only to the Notes and Guarantees established hereby and not to any future Series of Securities established under the Base Indenture.
. Application to Notes Only.
Section 3.03Nothing contained in the Indenture shall or shall be construed to confer upon any person other than a Holder of the Notes, the Company and the Trustee any right or interest to avail itself of any benefit under any provision of the Indenture, the Notes or the Guarantees.
. Benefits.
 
Section 3.04This Supplemental Indenture shall be effective as of the date first above written upon the execution and delivery hereof by each of the parties hereto.
. Effective Date.
Section 3.05As supplemented hereby, the Base Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed and all the terms, provisions and conditions thereof remain in full force and effect.
. Ratification.
Section 3.06This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
. Counterparts.
Section 3.07THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
. Governing Law.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS SECURITY IS A SECURITY IN GLOBAL FORM WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED OR TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
Principal Amount $_______________
CUSIP ____________
ISIN ___________
No. __
JOY GLOBAL INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assignees, the principal sum of ______________ Dollars ($__________)], as may be revised from time to time by the Schedule of Increases and Decreases attached hereto,]
Company
1
 
 
on October 15, 2021, and to pay interest thereon from October 12, 2011, or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing April 15, 2012, at the rate of 5.125% per annum, until the principal hereof becomes due and payable, and at such rate on any overdue principal and (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable) on any overdue installment of interest. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any interest payment date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this 5.125% Senior Note Due 2021 (this "," and all of the Notes collectively referred to herein as the "") (or one or more predecessor debt securities) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest, which shall be the April 1 or October 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such interest payment date. Any such interest not punctually paid or duly provided for on any interest payment date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder on such regular record date by virtue of his having been such Holder, and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor debt securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such defaulted interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to such special record date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture for a statement of them.
Note
Notes
Payments of interest will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds. Principal and any premium and interest payable at maturity will be paid in immediately available funds upon surrender of such Note at the office of a Paying Agent or at such other office or agency as the Company may designate; , , that the Company may, at its option, elect to make interest payments by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders; , , that with respect to Notes represented by Global Notes, the Company shall make payments of principal and interest by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account specified by the Depositary.
provided
however
provided
further
Unless the certificate of authentication herein has been duly executed by the Trustee referred to herein by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (the "" and each, a "") issued under an indenture dated as of November 10, 2006 (the ""), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "," which term includes
Securities
Security
Base Indenture
Trustee
 
any successor Trustee under the Indenture) as amended, modified and supplemented by a supplemental indenture dated as of October 12, 2011 (the "" and the Base Indenture, as amended, modified and supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"), among the Company, the Guarantors named therein and the Trustee, to which Indenture reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Guarantors, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof limited in aggregate principal amount to $500,000,000, except that the Company may, without the consent of the Holders, "" the series and issue additional Notes that have the same ranking, interest rate, maturity date and other terms as this Note, other than with respect to the date of issuance, the issue price and, in some cases, the first interest payment date.
Supplemental Indenture
reopen
The payment by the Company of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, the Notes is fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by each Guarantor to the extent set forth in the Indenture.
The Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of the Notes at any time and from time to time at a redemption price equal to the greater of the following amounts, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to, but excluding, the applicable redemption date: (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and (ii) the sum of the present values of the principal amount and the remaining scheduled payments of interest on the Notes to be redeemed (not including any portion of payments of interest accrued as of the applicable redemption date), discounted to the applicable Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis at a rate equal to the sum of the Treasury Rate plus 0.50%. The redemption prices of Notes to be redeemed will be calculated assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. If the Company redeems less than all of the Notes, and the Notes are Global Notes, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by DTC in accordance with DTC's procedures. If the Notes to be redeemed are not Global Notes, the Trustee will select the particular Notes to be redeemed by lot, on a pro rata basis or by another method the Trustee deems fair and appropriate and as otherwise provided in the Indenture.
Holders of Notes to be redeemed will receive notice thereof at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the applicable redemption date.
For the purposes of determining the redemption price, "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per year equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated on the third Business Day preceding the redemption date, assuming a price for the
 
Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that redemption date. "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the U.S. Treasury security or securities selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be used, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes. "Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers selected by the Company. "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or (2) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations so received. "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Goldman, Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, and one other nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a Primary Treasury Dealer to be selected by the Company, and their respective successors (a ""), unless any of them ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in the United States, in which case the Company will substitute another nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a Primary Treasury Dealer. "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Primary Treasury Dealer
In the event that (i) the Company does not consummate the 41.1% Acquisition by the Acquisition Deadline Date or (ii) the IMM Purchase Agreement is terminated at any time prior to the Acquisition Deadline Date (in either case, a ""), then the Company shall have the option to redeem the Notes, in whole but not in part, on the Special Acquisition Redemption Date at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the interest payment date immediately preceding the Special Acquisition Redemption Date (or, if no such interest payment date has passed, the Issue Date) to, but excluding, the Special Acquisition Redemption Date (subject to the right of holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date).
Special Acquisition Redemption Trigger
If the Company elects to redeem the Notes as described in the immediately preceding paragraph, the Company will cause the notice of such redemption to be mailed, with a copy to the Trustee, to each Holder at its registered address within
 
five Business Days after the applicable Special Acquisition Redemption Trigger. If funds sufficient to pay the special acquisition redemption price of all Notes to be redeemed on the Special Acquisition Redemption Date are deposited with the Trustee on or before such Special Acquisition Redemption Date, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Special Acquisition Redemption Date, the Notes will cease to bear interest and all rights under the Notes shall terminate (other than in respect of the right of Holders to receive the special acquisition redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest).
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its redemption rights as set forth above, each Holder of the Notes will have the right to require the Company to make an offer to each Holder to repurchase all or any part of each Holder's Notes pursuant to a Change of Control Offer at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase. Additional terms and conditions relating to Change of Control Offers are set forth in the Indenture.
The Company shall have no obligation to redeem or purchase the Notes pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision.
The Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries to consolidate, merge or sell, lease or exchange all or substantially all of their assets, to incur Debt secured by a Lien or to enter into Sale and Lease-Back Transactions, in each case in the manner and to the extent as set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of all the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Company and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental to the Indenture without the consent of the Holders for limited purposes specified in the Indenture. With the consent of the Holders of greater than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, the Company and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental to the Indenture for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing the provisions of the Indenture or any supplement thereto or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series under the Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of the applicable series affected thereby: (a) extend the final maturity of any Security; (b) reduce the principal amount of any Security or any premium thereon, reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce any amount payable on redemption thereof; (c) impair or affect
 
the right of any Securityholder to institute suit for payment of any Security or, if the Securities provide therefor, any right of repayment at the option of the Securityholder without the consent of the Holder of each Security so affected; (d) reduce the amount of principal payable upon acceleration of the maturity; (e) change the place or currency of payment of principal, or premium, if any, or interest; (f) reduce the percentage in aggregate principal amount of such series of Outstanding Securities, the consent of the Holders of which is required for any amendment or waiver provided for in the Indenture; (g) modify any of the waiver provisions, except to increase any required percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of the Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the holder of each Outstanding Note of the series affected thereby; (h) cause any such Note to become subordinate in right of payment to any other Debt, except to the extent provided in the terms of such Note; or (i) impair such Holder's right to require repurchase or conversion of the Notes on the terms provided therein.
The Holders of greater than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes may on behalf of the Holders of all the Notes waive any past default or Event of Default under the Indenture in respect of the Notes and its consequences except a default in the payment of principal of or interest on the Notes.
Holders of Notes may not enforce their rights pursuant to the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
The Notes are issuable in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of U.S.$2,000 and any integral multiple of U.S.$1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes that are of other authorized denominations.
Notes to be exchanged shall be surrendered at any office or agency maintained by the Company for such purpose, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor the Notes which the Holder making the exchange shall be entitled to receive. Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of any Note at any such office or agency, the Company shall execute and register and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees a new Note for an equal aggregate amount. Registration or registration of transfer of any Note by the Registrar (initially Wells Fargo Bank, National Association) in the registry books
 
maintained by such Registrar, and delivery of such Note, duly authenticated, shall be deemed to complete the registration or registration of transfer of such Note.
No service charge shall be made for any exchange or registration of transfer, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. Prior to due presentment of a Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the person in whose name a Note is registered as the owner for all purposes whether or not such Note be overdue and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
[This Note is in the form of a Global Note as provided in the Indenture. If at any time the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Note or if at any time the Depositary for this Note shall no longer be eligible or in good standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or regulation, the Company shall appoint a successor Depositary with respect to this Note. If a successor Depositary for this Note is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company will issue Notes in definitive form in exchange for this Global Note representing Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Global Note.]
2
No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement contained in the Indenture, in any Note, or because of any indebtedness evidenced thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, as such or against any past, present or future stockholder, officer or director, as such, of the Company or of any successor, either directly or through the Company or any successor, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance of the Notes by the Holders thereof and as part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
The Notes are subject to defeasance at the option of the Company as provided in the Indenture.
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Dated: October 12, 2011
 
 
This is one of the Notes of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: October 12, 2011
 
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR
OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
 
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING
POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE
the within Security and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                                    
Dated:
 
Signature
NOTICE: THE SIGNATURE TO THIS ASSIGNMENT MUST CORRESPOND WITH THE NAME AS WRITTEN UPON THE FACE OF THE WITHIN INSTRUMENT IN EVERY PARTICULAR, WITHOUT ALTERATION OR ENLARGEMENT OR ANY CHANGE WHATEVER
 
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 2.10 of the Supplemental Indenture, check the box below:
Section 2.10
If you want to elect to have only part of the Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 2.10 of the Supplemental Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
$
                    
Date:                Your Signature:
                                                             (Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Note)
Tax Identification No:
 
The following increases and decreases to this Global Note have been made:
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
October 12, 2011
Joy Global Inc.
100 East Wisconsin Avenue, Suite 2780
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53202
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel to Joy Global Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and are rendering this opinion in connection with the prospectus, dated October 6, 2011 (the "Base Prospectus"), as supplemented by the prospectus supplement, dated October 6, 2011 (the "Prospectus Supplement" and, together with the Base Prospectus, the "Prospectus"), relating to the registration statement on Form S-3 (the "Registration Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), on October 6, 2011 and the offer and sale of: (i) $500,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.125% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "Notes") and (ii) guarantees of the Notes (the "Guarantees") by certain subsidiaries of the Company listed on Schedule A hereto (collectively, the "Guarantors"), in each case to be issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of November 10, 2006 (the "Base Indenture"), among the Company, the Guarantors and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 12, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture"), among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee (the Base Indenture, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture").
We have reviewed such corporate records, certificates and other documents, and such questions of law, as we have considered necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this opinion. We have assumed that all signatures are genuine, that all documents submitted to us as originals are authentic and that all copies of documents submitted to us conform to the originals. We have assumed further that the Trustee has duly authorized, executed and delivered the Indenture. We have assumed further that LeTourneau Technologies, Inc., a Texas corporation, (the "Texas Guarantor"), is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of Texas, and that it has the corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform the Indenture and the Guarantees, as applicable. We have assumed further that the Texas Guarantor has duly authorized, executed and delivered the Indenture. With respect to all matters of Texas law, we note that you are relying on an opinion of Jackson Walker, L.L.P., which is filed as Exhibit 5.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 12, 2011 (the "Current Report on Form 8-K").
We have relied as to certain matters on information obtained from public officials, officers of the Company and the Guarantors, and other sources believed by us to be responsible.
Based upon the foregoing, we are of the opinion that, when the Notes have been duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture, and the Notes and the Guarantees have been duly issued and delivered against payment therefor as contemplated by the Prospectus, the Notes and Guarantees will constitute the valid and binding obligations of the Company and the Guarantors, respectively, enforceable against the Company and the Guarantors, respectively, in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
We are members of the bar of the State of New York. We do not express any opinion herein on any laws other than the law of the State of New York, the Delaware General Corporation Law and applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and reported judicial decisions interpreting these laws, and the federal law of the United States of America.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as Exhibit 5.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K. We also hereby consent to the reference to our firm under the heading "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission.
 
Joy Technologies Inc.
P&H Mining Equipment Inc.
N.E.S. Investment Co.
Continental Crushing & Conveying Inc.
LeTourneau Technologies, Inc.

Exhibit 5.2
Joy Global Inc.
100 East Wisconsin Ave, Suite 2780
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53202
(414) 319-8500
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special Texas counsel to LeTourneau Technologies, Inc., a Texas corporation (the ""), a wholly owned subsidiary of Joy Global Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), in connection with the prospectus, dated October 6, 2011 (the ""), as supplemented by the prospectus supplement, dated October 6, 2011 (the "" and, together with the Base Prospectus, the ""), relating to the registration statement on Form S-3 (the "") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), on October 6, 2011 and the offer and sale of: (i) $500,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.125% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "") and (ii) guarantees of the Notes (the "") by the Texas Guarantor and certain other subsidiaries of the (collectively, the "Guarantors"), in each case to be issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of November 10, 2006 (the ""), among the Company, the Guarantors and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 12, 2011 (the ""), among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee (the Base Indenture, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture, the "").
Texas Guarantor
Company
Base Prospectus
Prospectus Supplement
Prospectus
Registration Statement
Commission
Act
Notes
Note Guarantees
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
In our capacity as special counsel for the Texas Guarantor, we have examined the originals, copies or forms, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of the Prospectus, the Supplemental Indenture, the Restated Certificate of Formation of the Texas Guarantor, and the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Texas Guarantor. In addition, we have examined and relied upon such certificates of public officials and other certificates, opinions and instruments as we have deemed relevant and necessary as a basis for our opinion hereinafter set forth. As to matters of fact material to our opinion, we have, when relevant facts were not independently established, relied upon certificates of representatives of the Company and the Texas Guarantor, and have not conducted any special inquiry or investigation in respect of such matters. We have assumed that all signatures are genuine, that all documents submitted to us as originals are authentic and that all copies of documents submitted to us conform to the originals. We have assumed further that the Trustee has duly authorized, executed and delivered the Indenture.
Based upon the foregoing and having due regard for the legal considerations we deem relevant, and subject to the further qualifications and limitations hereinafter set forth, we are of the opinion that:
1. The Texas Guarantor is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the Texas Business Organizations Code, as amended (the ""), and has the corporate power and authority under the TBOC to execute and deliver the Note Guarantees and the Supplemental Indenture and to perform its obligations thereunder.
TBOC
2. The execution and delivery by the Texas Guarantor of the Note Guarantees and the Supplemental Indenture and the performance by the Texas Guarantor of its obligations thereunder have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Texas Guarantor.
We are members of the Bar of the State of Texas. This opinion relates only to the Federal laws of the United States of America and the laws of the State of Texas as currently in effect, and we express no opinion with regard to any matters that may be governed or affected by any other laws.
Page 2
This opinion is limited solely to the matters stated herein, and no opinion is to be inferred or may be implied beyond the matters expressly stated herein.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion letter as Exhibit 5.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, to be filed on October 12, 2011. We also hereby consent to the reference to our firm under the heading "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus. In giving this consent, we do not hereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder. This opinion letter may be relied upon by Covington & Burling, LLP, as if it were addressed to it, in rendering its opinions in connection with the registration of the offer and sale of the Notes and the sale and issuance of the Notes as described in the Prospectus.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
Contact:
Michael S. Olsen
Executive Vice President,
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
+1 414-319-8507
announced today that it has priced an offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.125% Senior Notes due October 15, 2021 (the "Notes"). The Notes will be senior unsecured obligations of Joy Global and will be guaranteed by certain of Joy Global's material domestic subsidiaries. The Notes will be sold at an issue price of 99.151% of the principal amount. Joy Global expects the offering to close on October 12, 2011, subject to customary closing conditions.
Milwaukee, WI  October 6, 2011  Joy Global Inc. ("Joy Global") (NASDAQ: JOYG)
We intend to use the net proceeds from the offering to fund in part our previously-announced acquisition of 41.1% of the outstanding shares of common stock of International Mining Machinery Holdings Limited (the "41.1% Acquisition") and, if the 41.1% Acquisition is completed, a tender offer to acquire up to 100% of the remaining shares, with any remaining proceeds used for general corporate purposes. The 41.1% Acquisition is subject to approval from the Anti-monopoly Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce of The People's Republic of China and other customary closing conditions.
Goldman, Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated acted as joint book-running managers for the offering.
A shelf registration statement was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and became automatically effective upon filing on October 6, 2011. The offering of the Notes may be made only by means of the related prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus, copies of which may be obtained by calling Goldman, Sachs & Co. toll-free at 1-866-471-2526, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC collect at (212) 834-4533, or Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated toll-free at 1-800-294-1322.
This release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
 
 
 
 
Joy Global, Inc.
 
 
About Joy Global
Joy Global Inc. is a worldwide leader in manufacturing, servicing and distributing equipment for surface mining through P&H Mining Equipment and underground mining through Joy Mining Machinery.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this press release, other than purely historical information, including our business plans, projections, objectives and intentions, including our pending acquisition of International Mining Machinery Holdings Limited, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are indicated by terms such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "indicate," "intend," "may be," "objective," "plan," "potential," "predict," "should," "will," "will be," and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are based on our current expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect new information. We cannot assure you the projected results or events will be achieved. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, they are subject to change at any time. Such risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, include the risks discussed in the prospectus supplement relating to the offering described above, and in other filings that we make with the SEC.
JOYG-G
 
 
 
 
 


