FILE:JOY/JOY-8K-20111229171230.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 29, 2011, Joy Global Inc. (the Company) completed the purchase of 534.8 million shares of International Mining Machinery Holdings Limited (IMM), a leading designer and manufacturer of underground mining equipment in China.  The shares, which represent approximately 41.1% of IMMs outstanding common stock, were purchased pursuant to a stock purchase agreement, dated as of July 11, 2011, as amended and restated on July 14, 2011, between TJCC Holdings Limited, the Company and the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Newco Hong Kong 123 Limited.  The shares were purchased for HKD8.50 per share, or approximately $584 million at present exchange rates.  As a result of prior open-market purchases of IMM shares, Joy Global now owns approximately 69.2% of IMMs outstanding common stock.  As required by Rule 26.1 of the Hong Kong Takeovers Code, the Company will be required to commence a tender offer for the remaining shares of IMM, as well as for outstanding options to purchase IMM common stock.  The Company expects the tender offer to commence promptly.
The press release announcing the acquisition of a controlling interest in IMM is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
JOY GLOBAL INC.
 
 
News Release
Contact:
Michael S. Olsen
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
+1 414-319-8507
(Joy Global) a worldwide leader in high productivity mining solutions today announced that it completed the acquisition of approximately 41.1% of the outstanding common stock of International Mining Machinery Holdings Limited (HKSE:1683) (IMM), a leading designer and manufacturer of underground mining equipment in China.  The transaction, which was announced in July, involved the purchase of 534.8 million shares of IMM at a price of HKD8.50 per share, or approximately $584 million at current exchange rates, from TJCC Holdings Limited.  As a result of prior open-market purchases of IMM shares, Joy Global now owns approximately 69.2% of IMMs outstanding common stock.
Milwaukee, WI  December 29, 2011- Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY)
Joy Global is now required to make an unconditional cash tender offer for the remaining shares of IMM common stock and all outstanding options to purchase IMM common stock pursuant to the Hong Kong Takeovers Code.  The tender offer will be launched by Joy Globals wholly owned Hong Kong subsidiary, Joy Global Asia Limited, and will be subject to the terms and conditions to be set out in the offer document.  The offer document is subject to approval by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, and following such approval will be made available on .
www.joyglobal.com
About Joy Global
Joy Global is a worldwide leader in manufacturing, servicing and distributing equipment for surface mining through P&H Mining Equipment and underground mining through Joy Mining Machinery.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Joy Global Inc.
 
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Terms such as "anticipate," "believe," could, "estimate," "expect," forecast, "indicate," intend, "may be," "objective," "plan," potential, "predict," should, "will," "will be," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.  The forward-looking statements in this press release are based on our current expectations and are made only as of the date of this press release.  In addition, certain market outlook information is based on third-party sources that we cannot independently verify, but that we believe reliable.  We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect new information.  We cannot assure you the projected results or events will be achieved.  Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, they are subject to change at any time.  Such risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to: (i) risks of international operations, including currency fluctuations, (ii) risks associated with acquisitions, (iii) risks associated with indebtedness, (iv) risks associated with the cyclical nature of our business, (v) risks associated with the international and U.S. coal and copper commodity markets, (vi) risks associated with access to major purchased items, such as steel, castings, forgings and bearings, and (vii) risks associated with labor markets and other risks, uncertainties and cautionary factors set forth in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Responsibility Statement
The directors of Joy Global and Joy Global Asia Limited (a wholly owned subsidiary of Joy Global and the entity acquiring the shares under the share purchase agreement and making the offer) jointly and severally accept full responsibility for the accuracy of the information contained in this announcement, except in relation to information on IMM, and confirm, having made all reasonable inquiries, that to the best of their knowledge, opinions expressed in this announcement have been arrived at after due and careful consideration and there are no other facts not contained in this announcement, the omission of which would make any statement in this announcement, except in relation to information on IMM, misleading.  The information relating to IMM contained in this announcement has been taken from the published annual and interim reports of IMM and from other public sources, including IMM's website at . The directors of Joy Global and Joy Global Asia Limited take full responsibility for ensuring such information has been correctly and fairly reproduced.
www.immchina.com
JOY-G
 
 


