FILE:JOY/JOY-8K-20120605113640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
UNITED STATES
 
 
(Exact name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 5, 2011, Joy Global Inc. (the Company) appointed James E. Agnew Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer effective immediately.  Ricky T. Dillon will relinquish his Chief Accounting Officer role as of such date and remain the Companys Vice President  Finance, Surface Mining.
Mr. Agnew, age 41, has been Vice President, Controller of the Company since March 2012.  Mr. Agnew was previously Corporate Controller of The Manitowoc Company, Inc. (Manitowoc), a publicly traded manufacturer of products for the crane and foodservices industries, since October of 2007.  Mr. Agnew was responsible for the accounting activities of Manitowoc, including corporate accounting, SEC reporting and internal control oversight.  From January 2006 to October 2007, Mr. Agnew held a Global Controllership position for General Electric Healthcare, a division of General Electric Company.
Mr. Agnews annual salary will be $234,000 and he will participate in the Companys annual bonus plan, with a target bonus of 40% of base salary and payout dependent upon achievement of individual and Company performance objectives.  In connection with his appointment, the Human Resources and Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors provided Mr. Agnew with initial equity awards under the Joy Global Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Program consisting of 3,000 stock options, 1,200 restricted stock units, and 1,200 performance shares.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


