FILE:JOY/JOY-8K-20120213125937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report): Not Applicable
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01  Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On February 10, 2012, Joy Global Inc. (the Company) completed its tender offer for the outstanding shares and options of International Mining Machinery Holdings Limited (IMM), a leading designer and manufacturer of underground mining equipment in China.  In the tender offer, IMM shareholders tendered 384,932,947 shares of IMM common stock, representing approximately 29.6% of the outstanding common stock of IMM, and elections to cancel 17.9 million options to purchase IMM common stock, representing 100% of IMM options.  The Company has accepted for purchase all tendered shares and elections to cancel options and will pay aggregate consideration for these securities of approximately $426.8 million, calculated at present exchange rates.
The tender offer resulted in the Companys beneficial ownership of 1,285.4 million IMM shares, or approximately 98.9% of the outstanding common stock, for total consideration of approximately $1.4 billion.  The Company previously acquired 534.8 million shares, or approximately 41.1% of IMMs outstanding common stock, on December 29, 2011 pursuant to a stock purchase agreement, dated as of July 11, 2011, as amended and restated on July 14, 2011, between TJCC Holdings Limited, the Company and the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Newco Hong Kong 123 Limited, for approximately $584.6 million.  The Company previously purchased 365.6 million IMM shares, or approximately 28.1% of IMMs outstanding common stock, through open market purchases occurring on July 28, 2011, August 16, 2011 and September 2, 2011 for approximately $376.7 million.
The Company intends to effect the compulsory acquisition of the remaining IMM shares under applicable provisions of the Cayman Island Companies Law, under which IMM is incorporated.  The Company expects to pay consideration of approximately $16.3 million, calculated at present exchange rates, to complete the compulsory acquisition.  The Company currently expects to complete the compulsory acquisition of the remaining shares of IMM common stock in its third fiscal quarter.  The combined effect of these transactions will result in the Companys beneficial ownership of 100% of the common stock of IMM.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial statements of businesses acquired.
Joy Global intends to file the financial statements of IMM by amendment no later than 71 calendar days after the date this Current Report is required to be filed.
(b) Pro forma financial information.
Joy Global intends to file the pro forma financial statements reflecting its acquisition of IMM by amendment no later than 71 days after the date this Current Report is required to be filed.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
JOY GLOBAL INC.
 
 
News Release
 
Contact:
Michael S. Olsen
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
+1 414-319-8507
 
(Joy Global), a worldwide leader in high productivity mining solutions, announced todays completion of the tender offer that its wholly owned Hong Kong subsidiary, Joy Global Asia Limited, conducted for the shares of International Mining Machinery Holdings Ltd. (HKSE: 1683) (IMM), a leading designer and manufacturer of underground mining equipment in China.
Milwaukee, WI  February 10, 2012 - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE: JOY)
In the tender offer, Joy Global Asia Limited received acceptances in respect of 384,932,947 shares of IMM common stock and elections to cancel approximately 17.9 million, or 100%, of all outstanding options to purchase IMM common stock.  Joy Global will pay aggregate consideration of approximately $426.8 million for such shares and options.  Combined with shares it previously owned, the tender offer resulted in Joy Global Asia Limited holding approximately 98.9% of all shares of IMM common stock.  Joy Global Asia Limited intends to exercise its right to compulsorily acquire the shares of IMM common stock that it has not purchased to date under applicable provisions of the Cayman Island Companies Law, under which IMM is incorporated.  Joy Global currently expects to complete the acquisition of the remaining shares of IMM common stock in its third fiscal quarter.
About Joy Global
Joy Global is a worldwide leader in manufacturing, servicing and distributing equipment for surface mining through P&H Mining Equipment and underground mining through Joy Mining Machinery.
 
 
 
 
 
JOY GLOBAL INC.
 
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Terms such as "anticipate," "believe," could, "estimate," "expect," forecast, "indicate," intend, "may be," "objective," "plan," potential, "predict," should, "will," "will be," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.  The forward-looking statements in this press release are based on our current expectations and are made only as of the date of this press release.  In addition, certain market outlook information is based on third-party sources that we cannot independently verify, but that we believe reliable.  We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect new information.  We cannot assure you the projected results or events will be achieved.  Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, they are subject to change at any time.  Such risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to: (i) risks of international operations, including currency fluctuations, (ii) risks associated with acquisitions, (iii) risks associated with indebtedness, (iv) risks associated with the cyclical nature of our business, (v) risks associated with the international and U.S. coal and copper commodity markets, (vi) risks associated with access to major purchased items, such as steel, castings, forgings and bearings, and (vii) risks associated with labor markets and other risks, uncertainties and cautionary factors set forth in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Responsibility Statement
The directors of Joy Global and Joy Global Asia Limited (a wholly owned subsidiary of Joy Global and the entity which acquired the shares under the share purchase agreement and is making the offer) jointly and severally accept full responsibility for the accuracy of the information contained in this announcement, except in relation to information on IMM, and confirm, having made all reasonable inquiries, that to the best of their knowledge, opinions expressed in this announcement have been arrived at after due and careful consideration and there are no other facts not contained in this announcement, the omission of which would make any statement in this announcement misleading.  The information relating to IMM contained in this announcement has been taken from the published annual and interim reports of IMM and from other public sources, including IMM's website at . The directors of Joy Global and Joy Global Asia Limited take full responsibility for ensuring such information has been correctly and fairly reproduced.
www.immchina.com
 
JOY-G
 
 


