FILE:JOY/JOY-8K-20120921090015.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 19, 2012, Michael S. Olsen, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Joy Global Inc. (the Company), notified the Company of his intention to retire on February 1, 2013.  In connection with Mr. Olsens pending retirement, James M. Sullivan will join the Company as an Executive Vice President on October 1, 2012.  Following the completion of the Companys fiscal 2012 reporting process in December 2012 and prior to Mr. Olsens retirement date, the Board of Directors of the Company expects to appoint Mr. Sullivan as the Companys Chief Financial Officer.
Mr. Sullivan, 52, previously served as Chief Financial Officer of Solutia, Inc., a global manufacturer of performance materials and specialty chemicals, from 2004 until its acquisition by Eastman Chemical Company in July 2012.  Mr. Sullivan also served as Solutias Executive Vice President from 2009 until his departure and previously served as Senior Vice President from 2004 through 2009 and Treasurer from 2004 through 2011.  Mr. Sullivan also served as Solutias Vice President and Controller from 1999 through 2004.  At the time of his departure, Mr. Sullivan was responsible for Solutias finance activities, including controllership, internal audit, investor relations, tax, treasury, risk management, credit and collections, acquisitions and divestitures and information technology.
As of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K, neither Mr. Sullivan nor any of his immediate family members is a party, either directly or indirectly, to any transaction that would be required to be reported under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.  If the Board of Directors appoints Mr. Sullivan as the Companys Chief Financial Officer as expected, the Company will disclose compensation arrangements in connection with such appointment by amending this Current Report at such time.
Item 8.01  Other Matters
On September 21, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Olsens retirement and the expected appointment of Mr. Sullivan as his successor.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Milwaukee, WI  September 21, 2012  Joy Global Inc. (NYSE: JOY)
today announced that Michael S. Olsen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will retire on February 1, 2013.  Mikes career with Joy Global has spanned more than 30 years.  He started as the Manager of External Reporting in 1979, became Vice President of Finance for Joy Mining Machinery in 1998, and Chief Financial Officer for Joy Global in 2008.    Mike Sutherlin, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, Mikes strong financial control, attention to detail and extensive understanding of our business has been a large part of the growth and success of Joy Global.  He has earned the respect of his colleagues at Joy Global, of our Board of Directors, of our customers, and of our shareholders.  We all congratulate Mike on his outstanding career.
 
I have been provided with tremendous opportunities with the company over my thirty-three year career, and I have enjoyed working with the very best people in the mining equipment industry during that time, Olsen said.  However, at this time I want to spend more time with my wife and two children, sharing experiences I would miss if I remained Joy Globals CFO.  Joy Global is in excellent financial position and is prepared for continued growth and profitability.
 
James Sullivan is joining Joy Global as Executive Vice President, and is expected to be elected as Chief Financial Officer after the reporting processes for fiscal 2012 have been completed.  In the meantime, he will devote his time learning our global business and working through a smooth and orderly transition of the responsibilities of the Chief Financial Officer.
 
Jim was previously the Chief Financial Officer of Solutia, Inc., a specialty chemical business with international operations.  Jims experience at Solutia was intensive and diverse, ranging from operational improvement, strategic acquisitions and the recent sale of the business.  Mike Sutherlin said, I am very pleased that we have a seasoned CFO succeeding Mike.  Through his experiences, Jim has demonstrated his drive for performance and has proven his ability to perform under pressure.  His capability, experience and style are a good fit with Joy Global, and he will quickly make his presence felt.
 
 
Joy Global Inc. is a worldwide leader in manufacturing, servicing and distributing equipment for surface mining through P&H Mining Equipment and underground mining through Joy Mining Machinery.
 
JOY-G
 
 
100 E. Wisconsin Ave., Suite 2780 Milwaukee, WI 53202 PO Box 554 Milwaukee, WI 53201-0554 414/319/8506
F
F


