FILE:JOY/JOY-8K-20120427114318.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of  the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On February 10, 2012, Joy Global Inc. (Joy Global or the Company) completed the tender offer for the outstanding shares and options of International Mining Machinery Holdings Limited (IMM), a leading designer and manufacturer of underground mining equipment in China.   In the tender offer, IMM shareholders tendered 384,932,947 shares of IMM common stock, representing approximately 29.6% of the outstanding common stock of IMM, and elections to cancel 17.9 million options to purchase IMM common stock, representing 100% of IMM options.  The Company accepted for purchase all tendered shares and elections to cancel options and paid aggregate consideration for these securities of approximately $426.8 million.  As a result of the tender offer, the Company beneficially owns approximately 98.9% of IMMs outstanding common stock.  The Company currently expects to complete the compulsory acquisition of the remaining shares of IMMs common stock in the Companys third fiscal quarter.  The Company is filing this Amendment No. 1 to its Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 13, 2012 in order to provide the financial statements required by this Item 2.01 with respect to IMM.
 
(a) Financial statements of business acquired.
 
Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of IMM as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011, and related notes, are filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
(b) Pro forma financial information.
Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet as of October 28, 2011 and Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statement of Income for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2011, showing the pro forma effects of Joy Globals acquisition of IMM, and related notes, are filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf  
by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
 
Consent of Independent Auditors
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-177189) and Registration Statements on Form S-8 (File Nos. 333-173214, 333-149558, 333-121570 and 333-71024) of our report dated March 30, 2012 with respect to the consolidated financial statements of International Mining Machinery Holdings Limited included in the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of Joy Global Inc. dated April 27, 2012.
 
Ernst & Young
Hong Kong
April 27, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Independent Auditors Report
To the shareholders of International Mining Machinery Holdings Limited
(Incorporated in the Cayman Islands with limited liability)
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of International Mining Machinery Holdings Limited (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together, the Group), which comprise the consolidated and company statements of financial position as at 31 December 2011, and the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Directors responsibility for the consolidated financial statements
 
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and the disclosure requirements of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors responsibility
 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. Our report is made solely to you, as a body, and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility towards or accept liability to any other person for the contents of this report.
We conducted our audit in accordance with Hong Kong Standards on Auditing issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
 
 
1
 
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditors consider internal control relevant to the entitys preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 December 2011, and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and have been properly prepared in accordance with the disclosure requirements of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance.
Ernst & Young
Certified Public Accountants
22nd Floor
CITIC Tower
1 Tim Mei Avenue, Central
Hong Kong
30 March 2012
 
 
2
 
 
Consolidated Income Statement
Year ended 31 December 2011
Details of the dividends for the year are disclosed in Note 13 to the financial statements.
 
 
3
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Year ended 31 December 2011
 
 
4
 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
31 December 2011
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Year ended 31 December 2011
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Year ended 31 December 2011
 
9
 
 
10
 
Statement of Financial Position of the Company
31 December 2011
 
11
 
Notes to Financial Statements
31 December 2011
 
The Company was incorporated in the Cayman Islands on 12 April 2006 as an exempted company with limited liability under the Companies Law, Chapter 22 (Law 3 of 1961, as consolidated and revised) of the Cayman Islands. The Group is principally engaged in the manufacture and sale of mining machinery in Mainland China. The registered office of the Company is located at Walker House, 87 Mary Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands.
The Companys shares were listed on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the Stock Exchange) on 10 February 2010.
On 30 December 2011, Joy Global Inc., through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Joy Global Asia Limited (Joy Global), acquired all the Companys shares held by TJCC Holdings Ltd. In the opinion of the Directors, upon the completion of the acquisition, the holding company of the Company is Joy Global Asia Limited, which is incorporated in Hong Kong; the ultimate holding company of the Company is Joy Global Inc., which is incorporated in the United States.
 
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) (which include all International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards (the IASs) and Interpretations) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), accounting principles generally accepted in Hong Kong and the disclosure requirements of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance. They have been prepared under the historical cost convention. These financial statements are presented in Renminbi (RMB) and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand except when otherwise indicated.
 
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Group) for the year ended 31 December 2011. The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the Company, using consistent accounting policies. The results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases. All intra-group balances, transactions, unrealised gains and losses resulting from intra-group transactions and dividends are eliminated in consolidation in full.
 
 
12
 
 
 
Total comprehensive income within a subsidiary is attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises (i) the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary, (ii) the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest and
(iii) the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity; and recognises (i) the fair value of the consideration received, (ii) the fair value of any investment retained and (iii) any resulting surplus or deficit in profit or loss. The Groups share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss or retained profits, as appropriate.
 
The Group has adopted the following new and revised IFRSs for the first time for the current years financial statements.
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
Other than as further explained below regarding the impact of IAS 24 (Revised), and amendments to IFRS 3, IAS 1 and IAS 27 included in, the adoption of these new and revised IFRSs has had no significant financial effect on these financial statements.
Improvements to IFRSs 2010
The principal effects of adopting these IFRSs are as follows:
IAS 24 (Revised) clarifies and simplifies the definitions of related parties. The new definitions emphasise a symmetrical view of related party relationships and clarify the circumstances in which persons and key management personnel affect related party relationships of an entity. The revised standard also introduces an exemption from the general related party disclosure requirements for transactions with a government and entities that are controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by the same government as the reporting entity. The accounting policy for related parties has been revised to reflect the changes in the definitions of related parties under the revised standard. The adoption of the revised standard did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. Details of the related party transactions, including the related comparative information, are included in Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
The Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, that have been issued but are not yet effective, in these financial statements.
 
 
15
 
 
 
The Group is in the process of making an assessment of the impact of these new and revised IFRSs upon initial application. So far, the Group considers that these new and revised IFRSs are unlikely to have a significant impact on the Groups results of operations and financial position.
 
A subsidiary is an entity whose financial and operating policies the Company controls, directly or indirectly, so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the Companys income statement to the extent of dividends received and receivable. The Companys investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment losses.
 
An associate is an entity, not being a subsidiary or a jointly-controlled entity, in which the Group has a long term interest of generally not less than 20% of the equity voting rights and over which it is in a position to exercise significant influence.
The Groups investments in associates are stated in the consolidated statement of financial position at the Groups share of net assets under the equity method of accounting, less any impairment loss. The Groups share of the post-acquisition results and reserves of associates is included in the consolidated income statement and consolidated reserves, respectively. Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups investments in the associates, except where unrealised losses provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Goodwill arising from the acquisition of associates is included as part of the Groups investments in associates and is not individually tested for impairment.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist.
The results of associates are included in the Companys income statement to the extent of dividends received and receivable. The Companys investments in associates are treated as non-current assets and are stated at cost less any impairment losses.
 
 
16
 
 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred is measured at the acquisition date fair value which is the sum of the acquisition date fair values of assets transferred by the Group, liabilities assumed by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. For each business combination, Group elects whether it measures the non-controlling interests in the acquiree that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of net assets in the event of liquidation either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets. All other components of non-controlling interests are measured at fair value. Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as of the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value as at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it will not be remeasured. Subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. In instances where the contingent consideration does not fall within the scope of IAS 39, it is measured in accordance with the appropriate IFRS.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount recognised for non-controlling interests and any fair value of the Groups previously held equity interests in the acquiree over the identifiable net assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If the sum of this consideration and other items is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is, after reassessment, recognised in profit or loss as a gain on bargain purchase.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. The Group performs its annual impairment test of goodwill as of 31 December. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the Group are assigned to those units or groups of units.
 
 
17
 
 
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit (group of cash-generating units) to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit (group of cash-generating units) is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit (group of cash-generating units) and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
 
Where an indication of impairment exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required (other than inventories, financial assets and goodwill), the assets recoverable amount is estimated. An assets recoverable amount is the higher of the assets or cash-generating units value in use and its fair value less costs to sell, and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, in which case the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An impairment loss is recognised only if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. An impairment loss is charged to the income statement in the period in which it arises in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at the end of each reporting period as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss of an asset other than goodwill is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount of that asset, but not to an amount higher than the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of depreciation/amortisation) had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. A reversal of such an impairment loss is credited to the income statement in the period in which it arises.
 
 
18
 
 
A party is considered to be related to the Group if:
 
Property, plant and equipment, other than construction in progress, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to its working condition and location for its intended use.
Expenditures incurred after items of property, plant and equipment have been put into operation, such as repairs and maintenance, is normally charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred. In situations where the recognition criteria are satisfied, the expenditure for a major inspection is capitalised in the carrying amount of the asset or as a replacement. Where significant parts of property, plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Group recognises such parts as individual assets with specific useful lives and depreciates them accordingly.
 
 
19
 
 
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line basis to write off the cost of each item of property, plant and equipment to its residual value over its estimated useful life. The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are as follows:
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, the cost of that item is allocated on a reasonable basis among the parts and each part is depreciated separately. Residual values, useful lives and depreciation method are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at least at each financial year end.
An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss on disposal or retirement recognised in the income statement in the year the asset is derecognised is the difference between the net sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the relevant asset.
Construction in progress represents buildings, plant and machinery under construction or installation and testing which are stated at cost less any impairment losses, and are not depreciated. Cost comprises the direct costs of construction and capitalised borrowing costs on related borrowed funds during the period of construction. Construction in progress is reclassified to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment when completed and ready for use.
 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value as of the date of acquisition. The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with finite lives are subsequently amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the cash-generating unit level. Such intangible assets are not amortised. The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life assessment continues to be supportable. If not, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is accounted for on a prospective basis.
 
 
20
 
 
 
Purchased patents and software copyrights are stated at cost less any impairment losses and are amortised on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of six to eight years.
 
Customer bases and know-how are stated at cost less any impairment losses and are amortised on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of five years.
 
All research costs are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Expenditure incurred on projects to develop new products is capitalised and deferred only when the Group can demonstrate the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset, how the asset will generate future economic benefits, the availability of resources to complete the project and the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during the development. Product development expenditure which does not meet these criteria is expensed when incurred.
Deferred development costs are stated at cost less any impairment losses and are amortised using the straight-line basis over the commercial lives of the underlying products not exceeding five to seven years, commencing from the date when the products are put into commercial production.
 
Land use rights are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. Land use rights are amortised on the straight-line basis over the lease terms of 50 years.
 
Leases that transfer substantially all the rewards and risks of ownership of assets to the Group, other than legal title, are accounted for as finance leases. At the inception of a finance lease, the cost of the leased asset is capitalised at the present value of the minimum lease payments and recorded together with the obligation, excluding the interest element, to reflect the purchase and financing. Assets held under capitalised finance leases are included in property, plant and equipment, and depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and the estimated useful lives of the assets. The finance costs of such leases are charged to the income statement so as to provide a constant periodic rate of charge over the lease terms.
 
 
21
 
 
Assets acquired through hire purchase contracts of a financing nature are accounted for as finance leases, but are depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
Leases where substantially all the rewards and risks of ownership of assets remain with the lessor are accounted for as operating leases. Where the Group is the lessee, rentals payable under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on the straight-line basis over the lease terms.
 
 
Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial investments, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value plus transaction costs, except in the case of financial assets recorded at fair value through profit or loss.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, that is, the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Regular way purchases or sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the period generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The Groups financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, pledged deposits, time deposits with original maturity of more than three months, trade and other receivables, loans receivable, quoted and unquoted financial instruments, and amounts due from related parties.
 
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification as follows:
 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of sale in the near term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined by IAS 39.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value with net changes in fair value recognised in other income and gains or finance costs in the income statement. These net fair value changes do not include any dividends or interest earned on these financial assets, which are recognised in accordance with the policies set out for Revenue recognition below.
 
 
22
 
 
 
Financial assets designed upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss are designated at the date of initial recognition and only if the criteria under IAS 39 are satisfied.
The Group evaluates its financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (held for trading) to assess whether the intent to sell them in the near term is still appropriate. When, in rare circumstances, the Group is unable to trade these financial assets due to inactive markets and managements intent to sell them in the foreseeable future significantly changes, the Group may elect to reclassify these financial assets The reclassification from financial assets at fair value through profit or loss to loans and receivables, available-for-sale financial assets or held-to-maturity investments depends on the nature of the assets. This evaluation does not affect any financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss using the fair value option at designation as these instruments cannot be reclassified after initial recognition.
Derivatives embedded in host contracts are accounted for as separate derivatives and recorded at fair value if their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not held for trading or designated at fair value through profit or loss. These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement. Reassessment only occurs if there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that would otherwise be required.
 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. After initial measurement, such assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method less any allowance for impairment. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and includes fees or costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. The effective interest rate amortisation is included in finance income in the income statement. The loss arising from impairment is recognised in the income statement in finance costs for loans and in other expenses for receivables.
 
 
23
 
 
Available-for-sale financial investments are non-derivative financial assets in listed and unlisted equity investments and debt securities. Equity investments classified as available for sale are those which are neither classified as held for trading nor designated at fair value through profit or loss. Debt securities in this category are those which are intended to be held for an indefinite period of time and which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or in response to changes in market conditions.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial investments are subsequently measured at fair value, with unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale investment revaluation reserve until the investment is derecognised, when the cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from the available-for-sale investment revaluation reverse to the income statement in other income, or until the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in the income statement in other expenses. Interest and dividends earned whilst holding the available-for-sale financial investments are reported as interest income and dividend income, respectively and are recognised in the income statement as other income in accordance with the policies set out for Revenue recognition below.
When the fair value of unlisted equity investments cannot be reliably measured because (a) the variability in the range of reasonable fair value estimates is significant for that investment or (b) the probabilities of the various estimates within the range cannot be reasonably assessed and used in estimating fair value, such investments are stated at cost less any impairment losses.
The Group evaluates whether the ability and intention to sell its available-for-sale financial assets in the near term are still appropriate. When, in rare circumstances, the Group is unable to trade these financial assets due to inactive markets and managements intent to do so significantly changes in the foreseeable future, the Group may elect to reclassify these financial assets. Reclassification to loans and receivables is permitted when the financial assets meet the definition of loans and receivables and the Group has the intent and ability to hold these assets for the foreseeable future or to maturity. Reclassification to the held-to-maturity category is permitted only when the Group has the ability and intent to hold until the maturity date of the financial asset.
For a financial asset reclassified from the available-for-sale category, the fair value carrying amount at the date of reclassification becomes its new amortised cost and any previous gain or loss on that asset that has been recognised in equity is amortised to profit or loss over the remaining life of the investment using the effective interest rate. Any difference between the new amortised cost and the maturity amount is also amortised over the remaining life of the asset using the effective interest rate. If the asset is subsequently determined to be impaired, then the amount recorded in equity is reclassified to the income statement.
 
 
24
 
 
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised when:
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if and to what extent it has retained the risk and rewards of ownership of the asset. When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in the asset. In that case, the Group also recognises an associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the Group has retained.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
 
The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (an incurred loss event) and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. Evidence of impairment may include indications that a debtor or a group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation and observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults.
 
 
25
 
 
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the Group first assesses individually whether objective evidence of impairment exists for financial assets that are individually significant, or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is, or continues to be, recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has occurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not yet been incurred). The present value of the estimated future cash flows is discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate (i.e., the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). If a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement. Interest income continues to be accrued on the reduced carrying amount and is accrued using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss. Loans and receivables together with any associated allowance are written off when there is no realistic prospect of future recovery and all collateral has been realised or has been transferred to the Group.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the estimated impairment loss increases or decreases because of an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is increased or reduced by adjusting the allowance account. If a future write-off is later recovered, the recovery is credited to other expenses in the income statement.
 
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has occurred on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be reliably measured, or on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset. Impairment losses on these assets are not reversed.
 
 
26
 
 
For available-for-sale financial investments, the Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired.
If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement.
In the case of equity investments classified as available for sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an investment below its cost. The determination of what is significant or prolonged requires judgement. Significant is evaluated against the original cost of the investment and prolonged against the period in which the fair value has been below its original cost. Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss  measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in the income statement  is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses on equity instruments classified as available for sale are not reversed through the income statement. Increases in their fair value after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
 
Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. The Group determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case of loans and borrowings, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other payables, amounts due to related parties and interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
 
 
27
 
 
The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification as follows:
 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss includes financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term. This category includes derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by IAS 39. Separated embedded derivatives also are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments. Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the income statement. The net fair value gain or loss recognised in the income statement does not include any interest charged on these financial liabilities.
 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method unless the effect of discounting would be immaterial, in which case they are stated at cost. Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the effective interest rate amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. The effective interest rate amortisation is included in finance costs in the income statement.
 
 
28
 
 
 
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled, or expires.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference between respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the statement of financial position if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
 
The fair value of financial instruments that are traded in active markets is determined by reference to quoted market prices or dealer price quotations (bid price for long positions and ask price for short positions), without any deduction for transaction costs. For financial instruments where there is no active market, the fair value is determined using appropriate valuation techniques. Such techniques include using recent arms length market transactions; reference to the current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same; a discounted cash flow analysis; and option pricing models.
 
 
29
 
 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a weighted average basis and, in the case of work in progress and finished goods, comprises direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling prices less any estimated costs to be incurred to completion and disposal.
 
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash, are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, and have a short maturity of generally within three months when acquired, less bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
For the purpose of the statement of financial position, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and at banks, including term deposits, and assets similar in nature to cash, which are not restricted as to use.
 
A provision is recognised when a present obligation (legal or constructive) has arisen as a result of a past event and it is probable that a future outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, provided that a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
When the effect of discounting is material, the amount recognised for a provision is the present value at the end of the reporting period of the future expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. The increase in the discounted present value amount arising from the passage of time is included in finance costs in the income statement.
 
 
30
 
 
Provisions for product warranties granted by the Group on certain products are recognised based on sales volume and past experience of the level of repairs and returns, discounted to their present values as appropriate.
A contingent liability recognised in a business combination is initially measured at its fair value. Subsequently, it is measured at the higher of (i) the amount that would be recognised in accordance with the general guidance for provisions above; and (ii) the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with the guidance for revenue recognition.
 
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss, either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, taking into consideration interpretations and practices prevailing in the countries in which the Group operates.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the end of the reporting period between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except:
 
 
31
 
 
 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carryforward of unused tax credits and any unused tax losses, deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carryforward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except:
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax assets to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at the end of each reporting period and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax assets to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
 
 
32
 
 
Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is released to the income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset by equal annual installments or deducted from the carrying amount of the asset and released to the income statement by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
 
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and when the revenue can be measured reliably, on the following bases:
 
Contract revenue on the rendering of services comprises the agreed contract amount. Costs of rendering services comprise labour and other costs of personnel directly engaged in providing the services and attributable overheads.
Revenue from the rendering of services is recognised based on the percentage of completion of the transaction, provided that the revenue, the costs incurred and the estimated costs to completion can be measured reliably. The percentage of completion is established by reference to the costs incurred to date as compared to the total costs to be incurred under the transaction. Where the outcome of a contract cannot be measured reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that the expenses incurred are eligible to be recovered.
 
 
33
 
 
Provision is made for foreseeable losses as soon as they are anticipated by management.
Where contract costs incurred to date plus recognised profits less recognised losses exceed progress billings, the surplus is treated as an amount due from contract customers. Where progress billings exceed contract costs incurred to date plus recognised profits less recognised losses, the surplus is treated as an amount due to contract customers.
 
The Company operates a share option scheme for the purpose of providing incentives and rewards to eligible participants who contribute to the success of the Groups operations. Employees (including Directors) of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments (equity-settled transactions).
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted. The fair value is determined by an external valuer using a binomial model, further details of which are given in Note 32 to the financial statements.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled. The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at the end of each reporting period until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The charge or credit to the income statement for a period represents the movement in the cumulative expense recognised at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service conditions are satisfied.
 
 
34
 
 
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the award are met. In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately. This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the Group or the employee are not met. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and is designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share.
 
The employees of the Groups subsidiaries which operate in Mainland China are required to participate in a central pension scheme operated by the local municipal government. These subsidiaries are required to contribute 20% to 22% of their payroll costs to the central pension scheme. The contributions are charged to the income statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the central pension scheme.
 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, i.e., assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets. The capitalisation of such borrowing costs ceases when the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs capitalised.All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
 
Final dividends proposed by the Directors are classified as a separate allocation of retained profits within the equity section of the statement of financial position, until they have been approved by the shareholders in a general meeting. When these dividends have been approved by the shareholders and declared, they are recognised as a liability.
Interim dividends are simultaneously proposed and declared because the Companys memorandum and articles of association grant the Directors the authority to declare interim dividends. Consequently, interim dividends are recognised immediately as a liability when they are proposed and declared.
 
 
35
 
 
These financial statements are presented in Renminbi (RMB), which is the Groups presentation currency. The functional currency of the Company is the Hong Kong dollar (HKD). Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency. Foreign currency transactions recorded by the entities in the Group are initially recorded using their respective functional currency rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional rates of exchange ruling at the end of the reporting period. All differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined. The gain or loss arising on retranslation of a non-monetary item is treated in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on change in fair value of the item (i.e., translation difference on the item whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income or profit or loss is also recognised in other comprehensive income or profit or loss, respectively).
The functional currencies of certain overseas subsidiaries are currencies other than RMB. As at the end of the reporting period, the assets and liabilities of these entities are translated into the presentation currency of the Company at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the reporting period and their income statements are translated into RMB at the weighted average exchange rates for the year.
The resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the exchange fluctuation reserve. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of other comprehensive income relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, the cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into RMB at the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the cash flows. Frequent recurring cash flows of overseas subsidiaries which arise throughout the year are translated into RMB at the weighted average exchange rates for the year.
 
 
36
 
 
The preparation of the Groups financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the end of the reporting period. However, uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that could require a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of the assets or liabilities affected in the future.
 
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, apart from those involving estimations, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements:
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for withholding corporate income taxes relating to the unremitted earnings of the Groups subsidiaries established in Mainland China that are subject to withholding taxes. Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax liabilities, based upon the likely distribution level of such earnings from these subsidiaries in the foreseeable future. The carrying value of deferred tax liabilities arising from the withholding tax associated with the undistributed profits of PRC subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2011 was RMB17,531,000 (2010: RMB13,015,000). Further details are contained in Note 22 to the financial statements.
 
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are described below.
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The estimation of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit could change significantly should the cash-generating unit fail to sustain the estimated growth. The carrying amount of goodwill as at 31 December 2011 was RMB314,969,000 (2010: RMB314,969,000). Further details are given in Note 18 to the financial statements.
 
 
37
 
 
Impairment of trade receivables is made based on an assessment of the recoverability of trade receivables. The identification of doubtful debts requires managements judgement and estimates. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect the debts. Where the actual outcome or further expectation is different from the original estimate, such differences will impact the carrying value of the receivables, doubtful debt expenses and write-back of trade receivables in the period in which such estimate has been changed.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable in accordance with the accounting policy as disclosed in Note 2.4 to the financial statements: Impairment of non-financial assets. The recoverable amount of an asset, or, where appropriate, the cash-generating unit to which it belongs, is calculated as the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to estimate future cash flows from the cash-generating units and to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The Group determines the estimated useful lives and related depreciation charges for its property, plant and equipment. This estimate is based on the historical experience of the actual useful lives of property, plant and equipment of similar nature and functions. It could change significantly as a result of technical innovations, competitor actions in response to severe industry cycles or unforeseeable change in legal enforcement rights in future. Management will increase the depreciation charge where useful lives are less than previously estimated lives, or it will write off or write down technically obsolete or non-strategic assets that have been abandoned or sold.
The Group determines the estimated useful lives and related amortisation charges for its intangible assets. The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be finite. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic lives and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of the reporting period.
 
 
38
 
 
Net realisable value of an inventory is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs to be incurred to completion and disposal. These estimates are based on the current market condition and the historical experience of selling products of a similar nature which could change significantly as a result of changes in customer taste or competitor actions in response to severe consumer product industry cycles. Management reassesses these estimates at the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, and carryforward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carryforward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies.
The Group offers a 12-month warranty for its products, during which free warranty service for the repair and maintenance of parts or components under normal usage is provided to customers. Management estimates warranty provisions based on historical cost data for repairs and maintenance and sales.
As described in Note 32 to the financial statements, the Company has engaged an independent professionally qualified valuer to assist in the valuation of the share options granted during the year ended 31 December 2010. The fair value of the options granted under the share option scheme is determined using a binomial model. The significant inputs into the model were the underlying share price at the grant date, exercise price, risk-free interest rate, expected volatility of the underlying shares, expected dividend yield, expected employee exit rate, exercise multiple and expected life of options. When the actual results of the inputs differ from managements estimate, it will have an impact on share option expenses and the related share option reserve of the Company.
 
 
39
 
 
Particulars of the companies comprising the Group and its associates at 31 December 2011 are set out below:
 
 
40
 
 
Particulars of the companies comprising the Group and its associates at 31 December 2011 are set out below: (Continued)
 
41
 
 
Particulars of the companies comprising the Group and its associates at 31 December 2011 are set out below: (Continued)
 
 
 
42
 
 
 
For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services and has four reportable operating segments as follows:
Engaged in the design, manufacture and sale of roadheader products and the provision of aftermarket services which include onsite repair service, overhaul and supply of spare parts to customers.
Engaged in the design, manufacture and sale of shearer products and the provision of aftermarket services which include onsite repair service, overhaul and supply of spare parts to customers.
Engaged in the manufacture and sale of armoured-face conveyors and related spare parts and the provision of aftermarket services which include onsite repair service, overhaul and supply of spare parts to customers.
Engaged in the manufacture and sale of electric control systems and related spare parts and the provision of aftermarket services which include onsite repair service, overhaul and supply of spare parts to customers.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segments.
Segment profit or loss represents the profit or loss earned by each segment without allocation of central administration costs, Directors remuneration and income tax. Management monitors the operating results of the Groups business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss and is measured consistently with operating profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements.
As the chief operating decision maker of the Group considers that most of the Groups consolidated revenue and results are attributable to the market in the PRC and the Groups consolidated assets are substantially located inside the PRC, no geographical information is presented.
 
 
43
 
 
 
44
 
 
 
45
 
 
 
 
46
 
 
 
 
47
 
 
 
48
 
 
 
49
 
 
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group had no customers from whom the revenues raised individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups total revenue during the year.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, the Group had two customers from whom the revenues raised of RMB269,585,000 and RMB243,414,000, respectively, individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups total revenue during that year.
Details of the concentration of credit risk arising from the customers are set out in Note 38 to the financial statements.
 
Revenue represents the net invoiced value of goods sold and the value of services rendered after allowances for returns, trade discounts and various types of government surcharges, where applicable.
An analysis of revenue, other income and gains is as follows:
 
50
 
 
An analysis of finance revenue and finance costs is as follows:
 
 
The Groups profit before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting):
 
51
 
 
The Groups profit before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting): (Continued)
 
52
 
 
Directors remuneration for the year, disclosed pursuant to the Listing Rules and Section 161 of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, is as follows:
 
In April 2010 and October 2010, certain Directors and employees were granted share options, in respect of their services to the Group, under the share option scheme of the Company, further details of which are set out in Note 32 to the financial statements. The fair value of such options which has been recognised in the income statement over the vesting period, was determined as at the date of grant and the amount included in the financial statements for the current year is included in the above Directors remuneration disclosures.
 
 
53
 
 
 
The remuneration of each of the independent non-executive Directors during the year is as follows:
 
There were no other emoluments payable to the independent non-executive Directors during the year (2010: Nil).
 
 
54
 
 
The remuneration of each of the executive Directors during the year is as follows:
 
Subsequent to the end of the reporting period, on 6 January 2012, Mr. Michael W. Sutherlin was appointed as executive Director of the Company.
 
 
55
 
 
 
The remuneration of each of the non-executive Directors for the year is as follows:
 
Subsequent to the end of the reporting period, on 6 January 2012, Mr. Michael S. Olsen, Mr. Edward L. Doheny II, Mr. Eric A. Nielsen and Mr. Sean D. Major were appointed as non-executive Directors of the Company.
 
 
56
 
 
Mr. Thomas H. Quinn, Mr. John W. Jordan II and Mr. David W. Zalaznick did not receive any remuneration from the Company for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010, but were remunerated by The Jordan Company arising from their individual capacity as members of senior management of The Resolute Fund, L.P. The Jordan Company, which was incorporated in the United States, manages The Resolute Fund, L.P., which is the holding company of the Companys former controlling shareholder, TJCC Holdings Ltd.
Mr. Youming Ye did not receive any remuneration from the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011, but was remunerated by TJCC Services arising from his individual capacity as a member of senior management of TJCC Services, a former related party of the Company.
There was no arrangement under which Directors waived or agreed to waive any remuneration during the year.
 
The five highest paid employees during the year included three (2010: four) Directors, details of whose remuneration are set out in Note 9 above. Details of the remuneration of the remaining two (2010: one) non-director, highest paid employee for the year are as follows:
 
 
57
 
 
 
The number of non-director, highest paid employees whose remuneration fell within the following bands is as follows:
During the year ended 31 December 2010, share options were granted to the above non-director, highest paid employees in respect of their services to the Group, further details of which are included in the disclosures in Note 32 to the financial statements. The fair value of such options, which has been recognised in the income statement over the vesting period, was determined as at the date of grant and the amount included in the financial statements for the current year is included in the above non-director, highest paid employees remuneration disclosures.
During the year, no emoluments were paid by the Group to the Directors, or the non-director and highest paid employees as an inducement to join or upon joining the Group, or as compensation for loss of office.
 
The Group is subject to income tax on an entity basis on profits arising in or derived from the jurisdictions in which members of the Group are domiciled and operate.
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Cayman Islands, the Group is not subject to any income tax in the Cayman Islands.
No provision for Hong Kong profits tax has been made as the Group had no assessable profits derived from or earned in Hong Kong during the year.
The provision for Mainland China current income tax is based on the statutory rate of 25% of the assessable profit of the Group as determined in accordance with the PRC Corporation Income Tax Law which was approved and became effective on 1 January 2008, except for certain subsidiaries of the Group in Mainland China which are granted tax concession and are taxed at preferential rates.
Jiamusi Machinery and Jixi Machinery obtained the Certificate of National High-Tech Enterprise in November 2008 and were able to obtain the renewed certificate in October 2011 for another three years. Huainan Longwall and Qingdao Tianxun obtained the Certificate of National High-Tech Enterprise in May 2010 and November 2009, respectively. Accordingly, they were entitled to a lower PRC corporate income tax rate of 15% for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The share of tax attributable to associates for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2011, respectively, is included in Share of profits/(losses) of associates on the face of the consolidated income statements.
 
 
58
 
 
The major components of income tax charge for the year are as follows:
 
A reconciliation of the income tax expense applicable to profit before tax at the statutory rate for the country in which the Company and the majority of its subsidiaries are domiciled (i.e. in their respective countries of incorporation) to the tax expense at the effective tax rate for the year is as follows:
 
 
 
59
 
 
 
The consolidated profit attributable to owners of the parent for the year ended 31 December 2011 includes a loss of RMB36,502,000 (2010: a loss of RMB136,775,000) which has been dealt with in the financial statements of the Company (Note 33(b)).
 
 
 
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011.
 
 
 
The calculation of the basic earnings per share amount is based on the profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent, and the weighted average number of ordinary shares of 1,300,091,473 (2010: 1,242,222,222) in issue during the year, as adjusted to reflect the rights issued during the year.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate the basic earnings per share includes the 520,000,000 ordinary shares issued in connection with the listing of the Companys ordinary shares on the Stock Exchange on 10 February 2010.
The calculation of the diluted earnings per share amount is based on the profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent. The weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation is the number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, as used in the basic earnings per share calculation, and the weighted average number of ordinary shares assumed to have been issued on the deemed exercise of all dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
 
 
60
 
 
 
In accordance with PRC regulations, Jiamusi Machinery, Jixi Machinery, Huainan Longwall and Qingdao Tianxun participate in a defined contribution retirement scheme. All formal employees are entitled to an annual pension equal to a fixed proportion of the average basic salary amount of their last employment at their retirement date. Jiamusi Machinery, Jixi Machinery, Huainan Longwall and Qingdao Tianxun are required to make contributions to the local social security bureau at a rate of 20% of the average basic salaries of the employees under the employment of Jiamusi Machinery, Jixi Machinery, Huainan Longwall and Qingdao Tianxun to whom the defined contribution retirement plan is applicable. Jiamusi Machinery, Jixi Machinery, Huainan Longwall and Qingdao Tianxun have no obligations for the payment of pension benefits beyond the annual contributions to the local social security bureau as set out above.
 
According to the relevant PRC rules and regulations, Jiamusi Machinery, Jixi Machinery, Huainan Longwall and Qingdao Tianxun are each required to make contributions, which are in proportion to the salaries and wages of the employees to an accommodation fund administered by the Public Accumulation Funds Administration Centre. There are no further obligations on the part of Jiamusi Machinery, Jixi Machinery, Huainan Longwall and Qingdao Tianxun, except for contributions to the accommodation fund.
 
 
61
 
 
 
62
 
 
 
 
63
 
 
The net book values of property, plant and equipment pledged as security for interest-bearing bank loans granted to the Group are as follows (Note 28):
 
As at 31 December 2011, the Group has not obtained certificates of real estate ownership from the relevant PRC government authorities for certain buildings with a carrying amount of RMB2,031,000.
 
The leasehold land is held under a long-term lease and is situated in Mainland China.
 
 
64
 
 
 
Goodwill acquired through business combination has been allocated to the Groups cash-generating units (CGUs), which are reportable segments, for impairment testing:
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each of the CGUs is as follows:
 
65
 
 
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined based on a value in use calculation. The calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period with cash flows beyond the five-year period assumed to be stable. The discount rate applied to the cash flow projections for the segment of roadheader products and aftermarket parts and services is 18.8% (2010: 18.3%). The discount rate applied to the cash flow projections for the segment of shearer products and aftermarket parts and services is 17.4% (2010: 18.0%). The discount rate applied to the cash flow projections for the segment of electric control systems and related products and aftermarket parts and services is 17.8% (2010: 18.2%). The growth rate does not exceed the projected long-term average growth rate for the mining industry in Mainland China.
Key assumptions were used in the value in use calculation of the CGUs for 31 December 2010 and 2011. The following describes each key assumption on which management has based its cash flow projections to undertake impairment testing of goodwill:
 Management determined budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations for market development.
Budgeted gross margins
 The discount rates used are before tax and reflect specific risks relating to the relevant units.
Discount rates
The values assigned to key assumptions are consistent with external information sources.
 
 
66
 
 
 
67
 
 
 
Investments in subsidiaries as at 31 December 2011 represent the cost of the entire interests in TJCC IMM Siwei Holdings Ltd., TJCC IMM Jiamusi Holdings Ltd. (TJCC IMM Jiamusi), TJCC IMM Jixi Holdings Ltd. (TJCC IMM Jixi), TJCC IMM AFC Holdings Ltd. (TJCC IMM AFC) and Qingdao Tianxun.
Details of investments in subsidiaries are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements.
 
 
The following table illustrates the summarised financial information of the Groups associates extracted from their financial statements:
Details of investments in associates are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements.
 
 
68
 
 
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows:
 
 
The Group has tax losses arising in Mainland China of RMB34,427,000 that will expire in five years for offsetting against future taxable profits.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as it is not considered probable that taxable profits will be available against which the tax losses can be utilised.
 
 
69
 
 
 
Pursuant to the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law, a 10% withholding corporate income tax is levied on dividends declared to foreign investors from the foreign investment enterprises established in Mainland China. The requirement became effective from 1 January 2008 and applies to earnings after 31 December 2007. A lower withholding corporate income tax rate may be applied if there is a tax treaty between Mainland China and the jurisdiction of the foreign investors. For the Group, the applicable withholding rate is 5%. The Group is therefore liable to withholding taxes on dividends distributed by those subsidiaries established in Mainland China in respect of earnings generated from 1 January 2008.
 
 
70
 
 
 
 
 
The Group grants different credit periods to customers. The Group generally requires its customers to make payments at various stages of a sale transaction. The credit period of individual customers is considered on a case-by-case basis and set out in the sales contracts, as appropriate. Certain customers are required to make partial payment before or upon delivery. The Group seeks to maintain strict control over its outstanding receivables and closely monitors them to minimise credit risk. Overdue balances are reviewed regularly by senior management.
Trade receivables are unsecured and non-interest-bearing. The carrying amounts of trade receivables and bills receivables are approximate to their fair values.
 
 
71
 
 
An aged analysis of trade receivables as at the end of the reporting period, based on the invoice date and net of provisions, is as follows:
 
The movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
 
The impaired trade receivables relate to individual customers that were in financial difficulties and the receivables that are not expected to be recovered. The Group does not hold any collateral or other credit enhancements over these balances. The bills receivable all mature within 180 days from the end of the reporting period.
 
 
72
 
 
The carrying amounts of bills receivables pledged as security for interest-bearing bank loans granted to the Group and for the issuance of bank acceptance notes are as follows:
 
The analysis of trade receivables that are not considered to be impaired is as follows:
 
Receivables that were neither past due nor impaired relate to a large number of diversified customers for whom there was no recent history of default.
Receivables that were past due but not impaired relate to a number of independent customers that have a good track record with the Group. Based on past experience, the Directors believe that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of these balances as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the balances are still considered fully recoverable. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
 
 
73
 
 
The movements in the provision for impairment of other receivables are as follows:
The impaired other receivables mainly relates to a prepayment of an investment to an independent third party that was in financial difficulty and the receivables are not expected to be recovered.
The carrying amounts of other receivables approximate to their fair values.
None of the above assets not impaired is past due. The financial assets included in the above balances not impaired relate to receivables for which there was no recent history of default.
 
 
74
 
 
Cash at banks earn interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. The bank balances are deposited with creditworthy banks with no recent history of default. The carrying amounts of the cash and cash equivalents approximate to their fair values.
The RMB is not freely convertible into other currencies, however, under Mainland Chinas Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and Administration of Settlement, Sale and Payment of Foreign Exchange Regulations, the Group is permitted to exchange RMB for other currencies through banks authorised to conduct foreign exchange business.
 
 
75
 
 
 
 
 
 
The nature of the transactions with related parties and subsidiaries is disclosed in Note 36 to the financial statements.
The carrying amounts of the balances due from/to related parties and subsidiaries approximate to their fair values.
 
 
76
 
 
 
The above bank loans were all repayable within one year. The carrying amounts of the Groups current bank loans approximate their fair values.
The Groups bank loans that are secured by the pledge of assets are as follows:
 
 
 
77
 
 
 
 
An aged analysis of outstanding trade payables as at the end of the reporting period, based on the invoice date, is as follows:
 
The trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are normally settled within 180 days. The carrying amounts of the trade payables approximate to their fair values.
 
 
78
 
 
 
 
The carrying amounts of other payables and accruals approximate to their fair values.
 
 
79
 
 
 
During the year, the movements in the number of issued share capital are analysed as follows:
Details of the Companys share option scheme and the share options issued under the scheme are included in Note 32 to the financial statements.
 
 
80
 
 
The Company operates a share option scheme (the Scheme) for the purpose of providing incentives and rewards to eligible participants who contribute to the success of the Groups operations. Eligible participants of the Scheme include the Companys Directors, including independent non-executive Directors and other employees of the Group. The Scheme became effective on 24 January 2010 and, unless otherwise cancelled or amended, will expire on 23 January 2020.
The maximum number of share options currently permitted to be granted under the Scheme is 130,000,000 shares, being 10% of total number of shares in issue as at 10 February 2010. Unless approved by shareholders in a general meeting, no participant shall be granted an option within the 12-month period up to and including the proposed date on which the grant of an option is made, if such grant, would represent in aggregate over 1% of the number of shares in issue as at the proposed grant date. The limit on the total number of shares which may be issued upon exercise of all outstanding options granted and yet to be exercised under the Scheme and any other share option schemes of any member of the Group must not exceed 30% of the number of shares in issue from time to time.
The offer of a grant of share options may be accepted within 28 days from the date of offer, upon payment of a nominal consideration of HK$1.00 in total by the grantee. The exercise period of the share options granted is determinable by the Directors, and commences after a vesting period of one to five years and ends on a date which is not later than five years from the date of offer of the share options or the expiry date of the Scheme, if earlier.
The exercise price of share options is determinable by the Directors, but may not be less than the highest of (a) the closing price of the shares as stated in the Stock Exchanges daily quotations sheet on the grant date, which must be a business day; (b) the average closing price of the shares as stated in the Stock Exchanges daily quotation sheets for the five business days immediately preceding the grant date; and (c) the nominal value of the shares.
Share options do not confer rights on the holders to dividends or to vote at shareholders meetings.
 
 
81
 
 
The following share options were outstanding under the Scheme during the year:
 
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted during the year ended 31 December 2010 was estimated at the date of grant, using a binomial model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The following table lists the inputs to the model used:
 
No other feature of the options granted was incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
The 214,200 share options exercised during the year resulted in the issue of 214,200 ordinary shares of the Company and new share capital of HKD21,420 (equivalent to approximately RMB18,000) and share premium of HKD1,453,536 (equivalent to approximately RMB1,217,000), as further detailed in Notes 31 and 33 to the financial statements.
 
 
82
 
 
The fair value of the share options granted during the year ended 31 December 2010 was HKD63,069,000. During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group recognised a share option expense of HKD19,518,000 (equivalent to approximately RMB16,182,000) (2010: HKD5,958,000 (equivalent to approximately RMB5,184,000)).
At the end of the reporting period, the outstanding share options under the Scheme of 17,919,800 shares were cancelled upon the acquisition of the Company by Joy Global. The Group therefore recognised a share option expense of HKD26,494,000 (equivalent to approximately RMB21,966,000) during the year ended 31 December 2011, that otherwise would have been recognised for services received over the remainder of the vesting period as an acceleration of vesting.
The total equity-settled share option expenses recognised during the year ended 31 December 2011 amounted to HKD46,012,000 (equivalent to approximately RMB38,148,000) (2010: HKD5,958,000 (equivalent to approximately RMB5,184,000)) as set out in Note 8 to the financial statements.
 
The amounts of the Groups reserves and the movements therein for the current and prior years are presented in the consolidated statement of changes in equity of the consolidated financial statements.
 
In accordance with the Company Law of the PRC and the respective articles of association of the companies registered in the PRC (the PRC Companies), each of the PRC Companies was required to allocate 10% of its profit after tax, as determined in accordance with Peoples Republic of China accounting rules and regulations (PRC GAAP), to the statutory surplus reserve (the SSR) until such reserve reaches 50% of its registered capital. Subject to certain restrictions set out in the Company Law of the PRC, part of the SSR can be capitalised as issued capital, provided that the remaining balance after the capitalisation is not less than 25% of the registered capital.
Subsequent to the re-registration of the two PRC subsidiaries, Jiamusi Machinery and Jixi Machinery, as wholly-foreign-owned companies on 11 April 2006, their allocation to the SSR was no longer required. According to the relevant PRC regulations applicable to wholly-foreign-owned companies, the Company is required to allocate a certain portion (not less than 10%), as determined by the Board of Directors, of its profit after tax in accordance with PRC GAAP to the statutory reserve fund (the SRF) until such reserve reaches 50% of the registered capital.
The SSR and the SRF are non-distributable other than in the event of liquidation and, subject to certain restrictions set out in the relevant PRC regulations, can be used to offset accumulated losses or be capitalised as issued capital.
 
 
83
 
 
For dividend purposes, the amount which the PRC Companies can legally distribute by way of a dividend is determined by reference to the distributable profits as reflected in their PRC statutory financial statements which are prepared in accordance with PRC GAAP. These profits differ from those that are reflected in these financial statements which are prepared in accordance with IFRSs.
In accordance with the Company Law of the PRC, profits after tax of the PRC Companies can be distributed as dividends after the appropriation to the SRF as set out above.
 
84
 
 
The Group leases certain of its office properties under operating lease arrangements. Leases for office properties are negotiated for terms ranging from one to four years.
The Group had total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases falling due as follows:
 
 
In addition to the operating lease commitments detailed in Note 34 above, the Group had the following capital commitments at the end of the reporting period:
 
85
 
 
 
Details of the Groups balances with its related parties at the end of the reporting period together with maximum outstanding balances due from related parties during the year are disclosed in Note 27 to the financial statements.
 
 
86
 
 
 
 
 
 
The carrying amounts of each of the categories of financial instruments as at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
 
87
 
 
The carrying amounts of each of the categories of financial instruments as at the end of the reporting period are as follows: (Continued)
 
 
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise interest-bearing loans, time deposits with original maturity of more than three months, and cash and cash equivalents. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise funds for the Groups operations. The Group has various financial assets such as trade and bills receivables as well as other receivables, which arise directly from its operations. The particular recognition methods adopted are disclosed in the accounting policy associated with each item.
It is, and has been during the year, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments should be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk, significant concentration of credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments either for hedging or for trading purposes. The board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of the risks which are summarised below:
 
 
88
 
 
The Groups exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to its interest-bearing loans. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge its interest rate risk. Since the Groups bank loans all bear fixed interest rates and are due within one year, its exposure to risk of changes in market interest rates is low.
The Group operates in Hong Kong, the Cayman Islands and Mainland China. For companies in Mainland China, their principal activities are transacted in RMB. For other companies outside of Mainland China, their principal activities are transacted in USD and HKD. The Group does not enter into any hedging transactions to manage the potential fluctuation in foreign currencies as the Directors consider that the Group has no significant foreign currency risk exposure.
The Group trades only with recognised and creditworthy third parties. It is the Groups policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis, and therefore, the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amounts of these instruments.
Concentration of credit risk exists when changes in economic, industry or geographic factors similarly affect groups of counterparties whose aggregate credit exposure is significant in relation to the Groups total credit exposure. The Group has a significant concentration of credit risk with customers in the mining sector who operate in Mainland China, with the top five customers accounting for 37% and 30% of the Groups total trade receivable balances as at 31 December 2011 and 2010, respectively. Sales to these customers accounted for 40% and 45% of the Groups total sales for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010, respectively.
The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds using a recurring liquidity planning tool. This tool considers the maturity of both its financial instruments and financial assets (e.g., trade receivables) and projected cash flows from operations.
The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank and other borrowings. In addition, banking facilities have been put in place for contingency purposes.
 
 
89
 
 
The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities as at the end of the reporting period is as follows:
 
 
 
90
 
 
 
The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and a healthy capital ratio in order to support its business and maximise shareholders value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The Groups net debt includes interest-bearing bank loans less cash and cash equivalent. Capital represents total equity.
At the end of the reporting period, the Groups strategy was to maintain the net borrowings to equity ratio at a healthy capital level in order to support its business. The principal strategies adopted by the Group include, without limitation, reviewing future cash flow requirements and the ability to meet debt repayment schedules when they fall due, maintaining a reasonable level of available banking facilities and adjusting investment plans and financing plans, if necessary, to ensure that the Group has a reasonable level of capital to support its business.
As at 31 December 2011, the Groups cash and cash equivalents exceeded the total interest-bearing bank loans. As such, no gearing ratio as at 31 December 2011 is presented.
 
On 6 January 2012, Joy Global Asia Limited launched a mandatory cash share offer to acquire all of the issued shares of the Company (the Share Offer). On 10 February 2012, the Share Offer was completed and Joy Global Asia Limited had acquired approximately 98.9% of the Companys issued shares.
Upon the completion of the Share Offer, Joy Global Asia Limited will exercise its rights to compulsorily acquire the remaining 1.1% of the Companys issued shares (the Compulsory Acquisition).
The Board of Directors is of the view that if the Compulsory Acquisition is completed, the Company will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Joy Global Asia Limited and an application will be made for the withdrawal of listing of the Company from the Stock Exchange.
As at the date of approval of the financial statements, the Compulsory Acquisition mentioned above is still in progress.
 
The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 30 March 2012.
 
 
 
91

Exhibit 99.2
 
On December 29, 2011, we completed the purchase of 534.8 million shares of International Mining Machinery Holdings Limited (IMM).  These shares, which represented approximately 41.1% of IMMs outstanding common stock, were purchased pursuant to a stock purchase agreement, dated July 11, 2011, as amended and restated on July 14, 2011.  The shares were purchased for HKD8.50 per share, or approximately $584.6 million.  As a result of this and prior open market purchases, we acquired a controlling interest of approximately 69.2% of IMMs outstanding common stock and were required by Rule 26.1 of the Hong Kong Takeovers Code to commence a tender offer to purchase all of the outstanding shares of IMM common stock and options to purchase IMM common stock that we did not own.  The tender offer commenced on January 6, 2012.  We completed the tender offer on February 10, 2012 and currently own 98.9% of IMMs outstanding common stock for which we have paid aggregate consideration of approximately $1.4 billion.  We intend to effect the compulsory acquisition of the remaining shares under applicable provisions of the Cayman Island Companies Law, under which IMM is incorporated.  We expect to pay consideration of approximately $16.3 million to complete the compulsory acquisition in our third fiscal quarter of 2012.  The combined effect of these transactions will result in our ownership of 100% of the common stock of IMM.
The following Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information is based on the historical financial information of Joy Global Inc. (Joy Global) and IMM and has been prepared to reflect the acquisition of IMM and the related financing.  The acquisition of shares of IMM obtained through open market purchases, the 41.1% purchase pursuant to the stock purchase agreement, and shares obtained under the tender process are reflected as a single transaction and adjustments have been made to reflect the purchases as a single transaction.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statement of Income for the year ended October 28, 2011 combines the historical financial information of Joy Global for the year ended October 28, 2011 and IMM for the year ended December 31, 2011 to illustrate the estimated effect of the acquisition as if it had occurred as of the beginning of the period presented.  The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet as of October 28, 2011 combines the historical financial information of Joy Global as of October 28, 2011 and IMM as of December 31, 2011 to illustrate the estimated effect of the acquisition on Joy Globals balance sheet as if the acquisition had occurred on October 28, 2011.
The historical financial information of IMM was prepared on the basis of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and translated from Chinese renminbi to U.S. dollars using historical exchange rates.  No adjustments have been made to convert the IFRS financial statements to US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles under which Joy Global is presented.  The historical financial information has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma matters that are (1) directly attributable to the acquisition, (2) factually supportable, and (3) with respect to the statements of income, expected to have a continuing impact on the operating results of the combined company.  The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information, the audited historical financial statements of Joy Global, as of and for the year ended October 28, 2011 included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the audited historical consolidated financial statements of IMM as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011, included as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information has been prepared using the acquisition method of accounting under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information will differ from our final acquisition accounting for a number of reasons, including the fact that our estimates of fair value are preliminary and subject to change when our formal valuation and other studies are finalized.  The adjustments that may occur to the preliminary estimates could have a material impact on the accompanying Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information.
 
 
 
 
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information is presented for information purposes only.  It has been prepared in accordance with the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not necessarily indicative of what our financial position or results of operations actually would have been had we completed the acquisition at the dates indicated, nor does it purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Purchase Consideration Allocation
The preliminary allocation of the purchase consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is based on the estimated fair values as of December 29, 2011, the date we obtained a controlling interest in IMM.  The fair values of the assets and liabilities included in the table below are preliminary and subject to change principally as we are currently in the process of obtaining third-party valuations.
The excess of the purchase consideration over the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets is reflected as goodwill.  The following table summarizes the preliminary estimates of fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date:
 
 
The determination of fair value for acquired intangible assets is currently proceeding and includes intangible assets consisting of customer relationships and trademarks.  While we have identified the types of intangible assets acquired, we have not preliminarily assigned a value to the intangible assets as the valuation process is ongoing.  The determination of the useful life was based upon historical experience, economic factors, and future cash flows of the assets acquired.
Inventories reflect adjustments of $22.1 million to establish the estimated fair market value.  Property, plant and equipment reflect an adjustment of $36.3 million to establish the estimated fair market value.  These adjustments have been reflected on the October 28, 2011 balance sheet.
For purposes of these Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Statements, a blended statutory rate of 15.0% has been used.  This rate is an estimate and does not take into account any possible future tax planning or events that may occur for the combined company.
 
 
 
 
Note 2  Adjustments to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet
Represents fair value adjustments to accounts receivable, inventories and property, plant and equipment to reflect estimated fair values.  The adjustments were made to reflect the preliminary fair values as determined during our valuation process.  Adjustments were also made to cash held in escrow and long-term borrowings to reflect the purchase of additional shares and the draw under an outstanding credit commitment to fund the share purchase, investment in unconsolidated affiliates to reflect the change from equity method accounting to acquisition accounting, non-controlling interest for the shares owned by unaffiliated shareholders and retained earnings to reflect the gain recognized upon obtaining control of IMM and the elimination of equity income earned during the period prior to obtaining control.
Property, plant and equipment is being depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets using the straight-line method for financial reporting.  Inventories have been adjusted to their estimated fair market value and will be charged to cost of goods sold over a period of five months.
Note 3  Adjustments to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statement of Income
Represents the estimated adjustments to amortization and depreciation expense related to the fair value adjustments of property, plant and equipment, and inventory.  Depreciation expense relating to property, plant and equipment and the amortization of the inventory step-up is included in costs of sales.
We have not reversed non-recurring acquisition expenses.  The costs included in the October 28, 2011 Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statement of Income were $8.6 million.  Additional costs related to the acquisition have been recognized in the quarter ended January 27, 2012 and it is expected that additional costs will continue to be recognized until the compulsory acquisition is completed.  The compulsory acquisition is expected to be completed in our third fiscal quarter.
 
 


