FILE:DTV/DTV-8K-20101104105326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
(General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
see
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 4, 2010, DIRECTV (the Company) issued a press release, which contained information regarding the third quarter 2010 consolidated results of the Company. The press release did not include certain financial statements, related notes and certain other financial information that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. A copy of the press release relating to such announcement, dated November 4, 2010, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
2
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
DIRECTV Announces Third Quarter 2010 Results
DIRECTV Adds 380,000 Net New Subscribers or 28% More Than a Year Ago
DIRECTV Latin America leads quarter with 206,000 net subscriber additions driven by a 36% increase in gross additions and low monthly post-paid churn of 1.54%
DIRECTV U.S. continues strong momentum adding 174,000 net new customers driven by higher gross additions of 1.14 million and lower monthly churn of 1.70%
DIRECTV extends its global leadership position by topping 27 million customers in the United States, Latin America and Mexico
DIRECTV Grows Revenues 10% to $6.03 Billion and Diluted Earnings per Share 49% to $0.55
Revenues boosted by strong net additions and ARPU growth of 4.3% at DIRECTV U.S.
EPS fueled by operating profit growth of 67% at DIRECTV Latin America and 18% at DIRECTV U.S., as well as the repurchase of $1.37 billion of company stock in the third quarter
DIRECTV Increases Year-to-date Free Cash Flow 26% to over $2 Billion Compared to 2009
EL SEGUNDO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--November 4, 2010--DIRECTV (NASDAQ:DTV) today reported an increase in third quarter 2010 revenues of 10% to $6.03 billion, operating profit before depreciation and amortization (OPBDA) of 10% to $1.48 billion and operating profit of 27% to $868 million compared with last years third quarter. DIRECTV reported third quarter net income increased 31% to $479 million and diluted earnings per share grew 49% to $0.55 compared with the same period last year.
(1)
For the fourth consecutive quarter, DIRECTV achieved double-digit revenue and OPBDA growth while also increasing EPS by 49% as more consumers across the Americas continue to purchase DIRECTV and SKYs unrivaled choice of video services, said Mike White, president and CEO of DIRECTV. Driven by our industry leading HD, DVR and interactive services, gross and net subscriber additions increased in both our U.S. and Latin American businesses for the first time in 2 years and as a result, we widened our leading position as the worlds largest provider of pay TV services with over 27 million subscribers.
White added, We were also pleased to see that even with DIRECTVs strong subscriber growth and related increase in acquisition costs, consolidated OPBDA margin remained strong at 25% and year-to-date free cash flow grew 26% to over $2 billion due in part to our intense focus on improving productivity and capturing scale efficiencies. We also made significant progress in the quarter toward strengthening DIRECTVs balance sheet as we issued $3 billion in senior notes, repaid the remaining secured debt of $1.2 billion and repurchased $1.37 billion of our stock bringing total year-to-date repurchases to $3.6 billion.
Third Quarter Review
DIRECTVs third quarter revenues of $6.03 billion increased 10% over the same period last year principally due to strong subscriber growth at DIRECTV U.S. and DIRECTV Latin America (DTVLA), as well as average monthly revenue per subscriber (ARPU) growth of 4.3% at DIRECTV U.S. and $64 million of net revenue generated by DIRECTV Sports Networks which was acquired as part of the transaction with Liberty Media Corporation in November 2009.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization increased 10% to $1.48 billion and operating profit increased 27% to $868 million primarily due to gross profit associated with higher revenues, partially offset by an increase in subscriber acquisition costs related to higher gross additions at both DIRECTV U.S. and DTVLA and demand for advanced equipment at DIRECTV U.S. Also impacting the comparison was an increase in upgrade and retention expense mostly related to higher advanced equipment upgrades at DIRECTV U.S. and lower G&A expenses at DTVLA primarily due to a reduction in currency-related transaction charges in Venezuela ($48 million in the third quarter of 2009 compared with none in the third quarter 2010). Operating profit was also favorably impacted by the completion of amortization for subscriber-related intangible assets at DIRECTV U.S. and lower depreciation expense associated with a reduction in set-top box capital expenditures over the last several years.
Third quarter net income attributable to DIRECTV increased 31% to $479 million driven by higher operating profit partially offset by higher tax expense principally due to the increase in pre-tax earnings and higher interest expense resulting from greater average debt balances. In addition, tax expense in the quarter was favorably impacted by a $39 million non-cash benefit from a tax settlement.
Cash flow before interest and taxes increased 12% to $968 million primarily due to the higher OPBDA partially offset by increased capital expenditures mostly due to higher gross additions and demand for advanced equipment at both DIRECTV U.S. and DTVLA. Free cash flow increased by 3% to $665 million compared to third quarter 2009 as the higher cash flow before interest and taxes was mostly offset by an increase in tax payments associated with higher pre-tax income and the roll-off of tax benefits related to the 2008 and 2009 government economic stimulus programs, as well as higher interest expense related to higher average debt balances. Also during the third quarter, DIRECTV U.S. completed a $3.0 billion financing transaction consisting of $750 million of 3.125% senior notes due 2016, $1.0 billion of 4.6% senior notes due 2021 and $1.25 billion of 6.0% senior notes due 2040. In addition, DIRECTV repaid the remaining $1.2 billion principal balance on its senior secured credit facility and repurchased $1.37 billion of common stock
(3)
(4)
.
Year-to-Date Review
DIRECTVs revenues for the first nine months of 2010 increased 12% over the same period last year principally due to strong subscriber and ARPU growth at both DIRECTV U.S. and DTVLA, as well as $178 million of net revenue generated by the DIRECTV Sports Networks. Operating profit before depreciation and amortization increased 23% to $4.69 billion and operating profit increased 56% to $2.83 billion primarily due to gross profit associated with higher revenues. Also contributing to the growth were lower general and administrative expenses at DTVLA principally due to a reduction in currency-related transaction charges in Venezuela ($168 million in the first nine months of 2009 compared with $22 million in the same period of 2010). Operating profit was also favorably impacted by the completion of amortization for subscriber-related intangible assets at DIRECTV U.S. and lower depreciation expense associated with a reduction in set-top box capital expenditures over the last several years.
Through September 30, 2010, net income attributable to DIRECTV increased 62% to $1.58 billion driven by the higher operating profit as well as a $67 million gain from the final settlement of the equity collars assumed in the Liberty transaction. These gains were partially offset by higher tax expense principally resulting from the increase in pre-tax earnings, as well as greater interest expense due to higher average debt balances. Also impacting the comparison was $57 million in 2009 gains associated with the revaluation of U.S. dollar denominated monetary net-liabilities in Brazil compared with $7 million in gains for the same period in 2010.
For the first nine months of 2010, diluted earnings per share attributable to Class A shareholders was $1.57. Excluding the impact of the Malone Exchange, diluted earnings per share were $1.75 representing an 80% increase over the prior years diluted earnings per share of $0.97. The improvement was driven by the higher net income as well as a lower average share count resulting from stock repurchases made over the last year and a reduction in share count resulting from the Liberty transaction in November 2009.
(5)
Cash flow before interest and taxes increased 34% to $3.0 billion and free cash flow increased 26% to $2.08 billion compared to the first nine months of 2009 primarily due to the higher OPBDA partially offset by increased capital expenditures associated with higher gross additions and sales of advanced equipment at DTVLA. In addition, free cash flow was negatively impacted by higher tax payments in 2010 associated with an increase in pre-tax income as well as the roll-off of tax benefits related to the 2008 and 2009 government economic stimulus programs. In the first nine months, cash paid for share repurchases was $3.56 billion. In 2010, DIRECTV U.S. completed two $3.0 billion senior notes financings which are summarized in the table below. Also during 2010, DIRECTV repaid the remaining amounts of its senior secured credit facilities totaling $2.32 billion and made payments of $1.54 billion to repay the debt and associated equity collars assumed in the Liberty transaction.
In the quarter, DIRECTV U.S. revenues increased 7% to $5.03 billion primarily due to strong ARPU growth and the larger subscriber base. ARPU of $88.98 increased 4.3% largely due to programming package price increases, higher HD and DVR service fees and advertising sales partially offset by an increase in acquisition and retention promotional discounts. Due in part to improved customer offers and segmentation, as well as relatively stable economic and competitive conditions, net additions of 174,000 were 28% higher than a year ago as gross additions increased to 1.14 million and churn declined to 1.70%. DIRECTV U.S. ended the quarter with 18.93 million subscribers compared with 18.44 million subscribers reported on September 30, 2009.
Third quarter OPBDA increased 1% to $1.19 billion and operating profit increased 18% to $720 million due to gross profit associated with higher revenues but were mostly offset by an increase in subscriber acquisition costs related to higher gross additions and demand for advanced equipment by both new and existing subscribers. Operating profit was also favorably impacted by the completion of amortization for subscriber-related intangible assets and lower depreciation expense associated with a reduction in set-top box capital expenditures over the last several years.
DIRECTV Latin America Segment
DIRECTV owns approximately 74% of Sky Brazil, 41% of Sky Mexico and 100% of PanAmericana, which covers most of the remaining countries in the region. Sky Mexico, whose results are accounted for as an equity method investment and therefore are not consolidated by DIRECTV Latin America (DTVLA), had approximately 2.75 million subscribers as of September 30, 2010 bringing the total subscribers in the region to 8.18 million.
Revenues for DIRECTV Latin America increased 22% to $930 million due to continued strong subscriber growth including a 27% increase in third quarter net additions to 206,000. Gross additions in the quarter increased 36% largely due to continued strong demand for HD, DVR and pre-paid services, as well as targeted customer promotions aimed at the middle-market segment resulting in strong growth across the region, most notably in Brazil, Argentina and Ecuador. Also in the quarter, average monthly churn increased to 2.00% due to higher pre-paid churn mostly associated with the completion of the FIFA World Cup soccer tournament in July 2010. Post-paid churn was relatively unchanged at 1.54%. ARPU declined 2.7% in the quarter due to currency devaluations, mainly in Venezuela. However in local currency terms, ARPU increased 4% mostly due to price increases and higher sales of advanced products throughout the region.
DIRECTV Latin Americas third quarter 2010 OPBDA of $313 million improved 57% and operating profit of $172 million increased 67% over last years third quarter. The increases were primarily due to gross profit associated with higher revenue, as well as a smaller charge in connection with the exchange of Venezuelan currency to U.S. dollars ($48 million in the third quarter of 2009 compared with none in the current quarter). The growth was partially offset by increased subscriber acquisition costs associated with the higher gross additions. Also impacting operating profit were higher depreciation expenses mostly due to the increase in set-top boxes deployed related to the higher gross subscriber additions attained over the last year.
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
A live webcast of DIRECTVs third quarter 2010 earnings call will be available on the companys website at . The webcast will begin at 11:00 a.m. ET, today November 4, 2010. Access to the earnings call is also available in the United States by dialing (888) 811-5456 and internationally by dialing (913) 312-0398. The conference ID number is 1445841. A replay of the call can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S. and 719-457-0820 internationally. The Replay pass code is 1445841. The replay will be available from 1:00 p.m. PT Thursday, November 4 through 9:59 p.m. PT Thursday, November 11 and will also be archived on our website at .
www.directv.com/investor
www.directv.com/investor
FOOTNOTES
(1) Operating profit before depreciation and amortization, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Please see each of DIRECTV and DIRECTV Holdings LLCs Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 for further discussion of operating profit before depreciation and amortization. Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin is calculated by dividing operating profit before depreciation and amortization by total revenues.
(2) See reconciliation of adjusted diluted earnings per share to diluted earnings per share at the end of this release.
(3) Cash flow before interest and taxes, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with GAAP, is calculated by deducting amounts under the captions Cash paid for property and equipment, Cash paid for satellites, Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  subscriber acquisitions and Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  upgrade and retention from Net cash provided by operating activities from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and adding back net interest paid and Cash paid for income taxes. This financial measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of cash flows from operating activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP. DIRECTV and DIRECTV U.S. management use cash flow before interest and taxes to evaluate the cash generated by our current subscriber base, net of capital expenditures, and excluding the impact of interest and taxes, for the purpose of allocating resources to activities such as adding new subscribers, retaining and upgrading existing subscribers, for additional capital expenditures and as a measure of performance for incentive compensation purposes. DIRECTV and DIRECTV U.S. believe this measure is useful to investors, along with other GAAP measures (such as cash flows from operating and investing activities), to compare our operating performance to other communications, entertainment and media companies. We believe that investors also use current and projected cash flow before interest and taxes to determine the ability of our current and projected subscriber base to fund required and discretionary spending and to help determine the financial value of the company.
(4) Free cash flow, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with GAAP, is calculated by deducting amounts under the captions Cash paid for property and equipment, Cash paid for satellites, Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  subscriber acquisitions, and Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  upgrade and retention from Net cash provided by operating activities from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. This financial measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of cash flows from operating activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP. DIRECTV and DIRECTV U.S. management use free cash flow to evaluate the cash generated by our current subscriber base, net of capital expenditures, for the purpose of allocating resources to activities such as adding new subscribers, retaining and upgrading existing subscribers, for additional capital expenditures and as a measure of performance for incentive compensation purposes. DIRECTV and DIRECTV U.S. believe this measure is useful to investors, along with other GAAP measures (such as cash flows from operating and investing activities), to compare our operating performance to other communications, entertainment and media companies. We believe that investors also use current and projected free cash flow to determine the ability of our current and projected subscriber base to fund required and discretionary spending and to help determine the financial value of the company.
(5) In the second quarter of 2010, DIRECTV resolved an FCC issue regarding our Puerto Rico operations by consummating a transaction with Dr. John C. Malone and members of his family. Under the terms of the agreement, the Malones exchanged 21.8 million shares of Class B common stock of the Company, which was all of the outstanding Class B shares, for 26.5 million shares of Class A common stock. The additional 4.7 million shares were valued at approximately $160 million.
(6) DIRECTV Latin America subscriber data exclude subscribers of the Sky Mexico service. Gross and net subscriber additions as well as churn exclude the impact of the migration of approximately 6,000 subscribers to DIRECTV Latin America in the third quarter of 2009 and net 9,000 subscribers to DIRECTV Latin America in the first nine months of 2009. Cumulative subscriber totals include the impact of the migrated and acquired subscribers.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
NOTE: This release may include or incorporate by reference certain statements that we believe are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of various provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by use of statements that include phrases such as believe, expect, estimate, anticipate, intend, plan, project or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe our objectives, plans or goals also are forward-looking statements. All of these forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or from those expressed or implied by the relevant forward-looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: economic conditions; product demand and market acceptance; ability to simplify aspects of our business model, improve customer service, create new and desirable programming content and interactive features, and achieve anticipated economies of scale; government action; local political or economic developments in or affecting countries where we have operations, including political, economic and social uncertainties in many Latin American countries in which DTVLA operates; foreign currency exchange rates; currency exchange controls; ability to obtain export licenses; competition; the outcome of legal proceedings; ability to achieve cost reductions; ability of third parties to timely perform material contracts; ability to renew programming contracts under favorable terms; technological risk; limitations on access to distribution channels; the success and timeliness of satellite launches; in-orbit performance of satellites, including technical anomalies; loss of uninsured satellites; theft of satellite programming signals; and our ability to access capital to maintain our financial flexibility. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements.
DIRECTV (NASDAQ:DTV) is the worlds leading provider of digital television entertainment services. Through its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the United States, Brazil, Mexico and other countries in Latin America, DIRECTV provides digital television service to more than 18.9 million customers in the United States and over 8.1 million customers in Latin America. DIRECTV sports and entertainment properties include three regional sports networks (Northwest, Rocky Mountain and Pittsburgh) as well as a 65 percent ownership interest in Game Show Network. For more information on DIRECTV, visit directv.com.
CONTACT: DIRECTV Media Contact: Darris Gringeri, 212-205-0882 Investor Relations: 310-964-0808


