FILE:DTV/DTV-8K-20100107171934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)    
January 4, 2010
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (  General Instruction A.2. below):
see
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
As previously reported on the Form 8-K filed by The DIRECTV Group, Inc. (the predecessor of DIRECTV) with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on November 19, 2009 (the DTV November 8-K), Michael D. White was appointed by the Board of Directors as President and Chief Executive Officer effective January 1, 2010.  The primary terms of Mr. Whites employment were summarized in a term sheet which was attached as to the DTV November 8-K.  Subsequently, DIRECTV and Mr. White entered into the employment agreement effective as of January 1, 2010 (Employment Agreement) and the related equity award agreements summarized below.  A copy of the Employment Agreement is attached hereto as .
Exhibit 10.1
Exhibit 10.1
.  Pursuant to the terms of the Employment Agreement, Mr. White will be employed initially for a three year term commencing on January 1, 2010, with an initial base salary of $1.5 million adjusted annually and a target cash bonus under DIRECTVs executive cash bonus plan of 200% of base salary.
Term, Base Salary and Annual Cash Bonus
.  The Employment Agreement also provides for a stock grant valued at $25 million consisting of 50% of value in stock options with three-year installment vesting on each of December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, and 50% of value in restricted stock units which vest over a three year period.   The terms governing the grant of stock options are set forth in the DIRECTV Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement between DIRECTV and Mr. White dated as of January 4, 2010 (Option Agreement), a copy of which is attached hereto as .  Pursuant to the terms of the Option Agreement, on January 4, 2010, Mr. White was awarded options to purchase 1,011,100 shares of DIRECTV Class A common stock with an exercise price of $33.74, the closing price per share of DIRECTV Class A common stock on the award date.  The terms governing the grant of restricted stock units are set forth in the DIRECTV Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement between DIRECTV and Mr. White also dated as of January 4, 2010 (RSU Agreement), a copy of which is attached hereto as .  Pursuant to the terms of the RSU Agreement, Mr. White was awarded a grant of 435,400 restricted stock units having a value per share of $28.71, which was determined based on the average closing market price on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for DIRECTV (or its predecessor, The DIRECTV Group, Inc.) common stock for the 90 trading days prior to the grant date.  The performance metrics for the RSU Agreement are to be established by DIRECTVs Compensation Committee prior to March 1, 2010, and will be the same metrics as apply to restricted stock unit awards to other elected officers of DIRECTV.
Equity Compensation
Exhibit 10.2
Exhibit 10.3
The Employment Agreement contains terms and conditions providing for certain severance and other payments and benefits that vary depending on whether Mr. Whites employment is terminated by DIRECTV due to death or disability, or by DIRECTV for Cause, or by Mr. Whites resignation without Effective Termination as those terms are defined in the Employment Agreement, or by DIRECTV without Cause, or by Mr. Whites resignation for Effective Termination.  Please refer to the Employment Agreement for the terms and conditions regarding the arrangements upon termination of Mr. Whites employment.
Termination.  
Mr. White agrees to abide by the provisions of DIRECTVs Code of Ethics and Business Conduct during the Term. He has agreed not to compete with DIRECTV during the Term and for a period of two years thereafter and has also agreed, during the Term and for two years thereafter, not to induce or attempt to induce any executive, professional or administrative employee of DIRECTV or its affiliates to leave DIRECTV or its affiliates or to render services for any other person, firm or corporation or induce or attempt to induce any key programming or equipment supplier, or key distributor, to terminate or materially adversely change its relationship with DIRECTV or any of its affiliates.  Further, Mr. White is required to maintain the confidentiality of certain information of DIRECTV, and not to use such information except for the benefit of DIRECTV.
Noncompetition and Confidentiality.
Other terms and conditions in the Employment Agreement are commensurate with other elected officers at DIRECTV. 
The descriptions of the Employment Agreement, Option Agreement and RSU Agreement in this report are qualified in their entirety by reference to the applicable document.
ITEM 9.01             Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
This (the ), is entered into effective as of January 1, 2010 (), by and between DIRECTV, a Delaware corporation (the ), and Michael D. White ().
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
Agreement
Effective Date
Company
Executive
 
, the Company and the Executive desire to enter into this Agreement, which sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Company will employ Executive to render services to the Company and its affiliates; and
WHEREAS
 
, the material terms and conditions of Executives employment, as set forth in this Agreement, have been approved by the Compensation Committee (the ) of the Board of Directors of the Company (the ).
WHEREAS
Compensation Committee
Board
 
, in consideration of the promises and mutual agreements hereinafter contained, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
 
1.
 
Employment, Duties and Acceptance
 
1.1
 
.  The Company agrees to employ Executive to render exclusive and full-time services to the Company and its subsidiaries for the Term of Employment (as hereinafter defined), subject to the terms of this Agreement.  During the Term of Employment, Executive shall serve as, and his title shall be, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company ().  In such capacity, the Executive shall have all powers, duties and responsibilities that are customary for a president and chief executive officer of a company of a similar size, type and nature to the Company, including the power and authority to supervise and determine the business, affairs and operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, and to appoint, supervise, and remove subordinate officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.  During the Term of Employment, Executive shall have such additional duties, but only to the extent consistent with such position, as may be assigned to him from time to time by the Board.  In such capacity, Executive shall report exclusively to the Board.  In addition, during the Term of Employment, Executive shall be designated a director of the Company and of each material subsidiary of the Company, and shall serve in such capacity or capacities without additional compensation.
Employment by the Company
Position
 
1.2
 
.  Executive accepts such employment and agrees to devote his full time and attention as necessary to fulfill all of the duties of his employment hereunder and shall render the services described above.  Without the prior written consent of the Company, Executive agrees that he will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any other business activities or pursuits so long as he is performing services for the Company, whether on his own behalf or on behalf of any other person, firm or corporation, except for making passive investments in accordance with Section 5 hereof.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Executive may continue to serve as a director of Whirlpool Corporation and as a director of such other companies as shall be approved by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee or the Board.
Acceptance of Employment by Executive
 
1.3
 
.  Executives principal office location shall be at the Companys offices in New York, New York, subject to such travel as the rendering of the services hereunder may require, and shall include working at the Companys offices in El Segundo, California; provided, that if requested by the Board, Executives principal office shall be at the Companys office in El Segundo, California.
Place of Employment
 
1.4
 
.  The term of employment under this Agreement shall be the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the 3rd (third) anniversary of the Effective Date (the ) or such earlier date on which Executives employment terminates in accordance with Section 4 of this Agreement (the term of this Agreement, the ).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Transformation Event (as defined on Exhibit A hereto) occurs during the final 14 months of the Term of Employment, the Term of Employment will then be extended until 14 months after such Transformation Event.
Term of Employment
End Date
Term of Employment
 
 
2.
 
.
Compensation and Benefits
 
2.1
 
.  As compensation for all services to be rendered pursuant to this Agreement, the Company shall pay Executive as follows:
Compensation
 
2.2
 
.  Executive shall be paid, on regular pay dates as now in effect or shall then be in effect under Company policy, at the rate of $1,500,000 per annum () beginning on January 1, 2010, subject to increase effective as of each succeeding January 1 during the Term of Employment, based on the increase, if any, in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers for the New York City area (or any successor Consumer Price Index) based on data published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor for the preceding year.
Base Salary
Base Salary
 
2.3
 
.  For each fiscal year ending during the Term of Employment, commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, Executive shall be eligible to receive an annual cash bonus (the ), based on the achievement of certain targets related to the performance of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, ), pursuant to a cash bonus plan (the ) for executive officers of the Company established with the approval of the Compensation Committee.  If Executive achieves the target in any such fiscal year, Executives annual bonus for such fiscal year shall be 200% of his Base Salary (the ), subject to increase or decrease based on annual performance, as determined by the Compensation Committee, provided that the maximum Bonus payable to the Executive for any fiscal year shall not exceed the amount permitted under the Plan based upon objective criteria set by the Compensation Committee with respect to such fiscal year during the first 90 days of such fiscal year.
Annual Bonus
Bonus
DIRECTV
Cash Plan
Target Bonus
 
2.4
 
.  Effective at the close of business on January 4, 2010 (the ), Executive shall be granted equity awards under The DIRECTV Group, Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Plan (the ) having an aggregate value on the Grant Date approximately equal to $25 million (determined as described below), consisting of (a) an award of performance restricted stock units for the Companys Class A common stock (the ) and (b) an award of options for Company Class A common stock (the ), each as described below:
Equity Awards
Grant Date
Plan
RSU Award
Stock Option Award
 
(a)
 
:  The RSU Award shall be evidenced by the Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement substantially in the form approved by the Compensation Committee (the ) which shall provide for the issuance of a target number of restricted Stock Units equal to the amount determined by dividing $12.5 million by the average closing market price on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for Company (or its predecessor, The DIRECTV Group, Inc.) common stock for the 90 trading days prior to (but excluding) the Grant Date, and rounding up to the nearest hundred (100) units.  The performance metrics for the three year performance period under such Award Agreement shall be established by the Compensation Committee no later than March 1, 2010, shall be the same performance metrics as are established for RSU Awards issued to other executive officers of the Company by the Compensation Committee at its February 2010 meeting and shall provide for a payout range of 0% to 125% of the target number of the RSUs, based on actual results.
RSU Award
Award Agreement
 
(b)
 
:  The Stock Option Award shall be evidenced by the Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement substantially in the form approved by the Compensation Committee (the ) which shall provide for non-qualified options to purchase, at an exercise price equal to the fair market value (the closing market price on the NASDAQ Global Select Market) of a share of Company Class A common stock on the Grant Date, such number of shares of Company Class A common stock as have a Black-Scholes value of $12.5 million at the Grant Date, using the same valuation methodology as used by the Company in its audited financial statements, rounded up to the nearest hundred (100) shares.
Stock Option Award
Option Agreement
 
 
3.
 
.
Employee Benefit Plans; Perquisites
 
3.1
 
.  During the Term of Employment, Executive shall be entitled to participate in all benefit plans or arrangements presently in effect or hereafter adopted by the Company applicable to executive officers of the Company, including, but not limited to, any pension, group medical, dental, disability and life insurance, or other similar benefit plans.
Participation in Employee Benefit Plans
 
3.2
 
.  During the Term of Employment, the Executive shall be authorized to use the corporate jet maintained by the Company (if the Company continues to maintain such corporate jet or otherwise makes the use of a corporate jet available) under the terms and conditions as described in the Company policy that provides for such use and otherwise the Company shall pay, or reimburse Executive, for first-class air travel for Executive.
Perquisites
 
3.3
 
.  During the Term of Employment, the Company shall pay, or reimburse the Executive for, all expenses reasonably incurred by him in connection with his performance of his duties hereunder.
Business Expenses
 
 
4.
 
Termination of Employment
 
4.1
 
Termination Due to Death or Disability
 
(a)
 
The Term of Employment and Executives employment hereunder shall terminate upon Executives death and may be terminated by the Company if Executive suffers a Disability (as defined on Exhibit A hereto).
 
(b)
 
Upon termination of Executives employment hereunder for either Disability or death, Executive or Executives estate or beneficiaries (as the case may be) shall be entitled to receive:
 
(i)
 
an amount equal to Executives Base Salary through the last day of the Term of Employment (determined as if such death or Disability did not occur), payable in a lump sum cash payment to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ), and, to the extent not so permitted, in substantially equal installments, at such times and in such manner as is in accordance with the Companys regular payroll practices;
Code
 
(ii)
 
payment of the pro-rated portion of the Target Bonus for the year in which such termination on account of death or Disability occurs, payable promptly, but in no event later than March 15 following the last day of the fiscal year in which Executives termination on account of death or Disability occurred;
 
(iii)
 
acceleration, vesting and immediate issuance of 100% of the shares of Company stock associated with the RSU Award, at target, as provided in the Award Agreement;
 
(iv)
 
immediate acceleration and vesting of the Stock Option Award, with the options to remain exercisable throughout the period ending on the  Expiration Date, as provided in the Option Agreement;
 
(c)
 
in the case of Disability, continuation of executive medical benefits until the End Date; and
 
(i)
 
such other or additional benefits to which Executive may be entitled in accordance with applicable employee benefit plans of the Company.
 
Following such termination of Executives employment due to death or Disability, except as set forth in this Section 4.1(b), Executive shall have no further rights to any compensation or any other benefits under this Agreement.
 
4.2
 
Termination by the Company for Cause or by Executive Resignation without Effective Termination
 
(a)
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, Cause and Effective Termination shall be as defined on Exhibit A hereto.
 
(b)
 
The Term of Employment and Executives employment hereunder may be terminated by the Company for Cause and shall terminate automatically upon Executives resignation without Effective Termination; that Executive will be required to give the Company at least 60 days advance written notice of a resignation without Effective Termination, unless otherwise approved by the Board.  In the event the Company terminates Executives employment for Cause or if Executive resigns without Effective Termination, Executive shall be entitled to receive only:
provided
 
(i)
 
Base Salary through the date of termination;
 
(ii)
 
pay for any accrued, but unused vacation; and
 
(iii)
 
such other or additional benefits to which Executive may be entitled in accordance with applicable law.
 
Following such termination of Executives employment by the Company for Cause or resignation by Executive without Effective Termination, except as set forth in this Section 4.2(b), Executive shall have no further rights to any compensation or any other benefits under this Agreement.
 
4.3
 
.
Termination by the Company without Cause or Resignation by the Executive for Effective Termination
 
(a)
 
The Term of Employment and Executives employment hereunder may be terminated by the Company without Cause or by Executives resignation for Effective Termination.
 
(b)
 
If Executives employment is terminated by the Company without Cause (other than by reason of death or Disability) or if Executive resigns for Effective Termination, in either event during the Term, then subject to Executives execution, delivery and non-revocation of a release of claims against the Company and its affiliates, on a form reasonably satisfactory to the Company (but which shall not require a release of claims for indemnification or coverage under directors and officers liability insurance or of vested benefits), Executive shall be entitled to receive, in full discharge of all of the Companys obligations to Executive:
 
(i)
 
an amount equal to 4.5 times Base Salary, payable in substantially equal installments over 18 months (the Severance Period), at such times and in such manner as is in accordance with the Companys regular payroll practices;
 
(ii)
 
vesting of 100% of the RSU Award at target performance level;
 
(iii)
 
acceleration of the vesting of the Stock Option Award by 18 months, with options to vest on a pro-rata schedule (actual service plus 18 months will be divided by 36 months to compute the pro-rating) with the options to remain exercisable throughout the period ending on the Expiration Date, as provided in the Option Agreement;
 
(iv)
 
continuation of executive medical and other welfare benefits during the Severance Period; and
 
(c)
 
such other or additional benefits to which Executive may be entitled in accordance with applicable employee benefit plans of the Company.
 
Following such termination of Executives employment by the Company without Cause (other than for death or Disability) or resignation by Executive for Effective Termination, except as set forth in this Section 4.3(b), Executive shall have no further rights to any compensation or any other benefits under this Agreement.
 
4.4
 
.  Unless the parties otherwise agree in writing, continuation of Executives employment with the Company beyond the expiration of the Term of Employment shall be deemed an employment at-will and, except as provided below, shall not be deemed to extend any of the terms of this Agreement and Executives employment may thereafter be terminated by either Executive or the Company.
Continued Employment Beyond Expiration of the Term of Employment
 
(a)
 
Executives Position pursuant to Section 1.1 hereof shall apply following the expiration of the Term of Employment during which Executive is an at-will employee (the ), as shall Sections 1.3, 2.2, 2.3, 3.1, 3.3, 4.1, 4.2, 4.9 and 5 hereof.
Post Term Period
 
(b)
 
If, during the Post Term Period, Executive resigns other than due to an Effective Termination, Executives vested options will be exercisable for the shorter of (i) 3 years or (ii) the end of the option term.
 
(c)
 
If, during the Post Term Period, Executives employment is terminated by the Company without Cause (other than for death or Disability) or Executive resigns due to an Effective Termination, then no later than sixty (60) days after the separation from service date (and expiration of the revocation period), provided that Executive has executed and delivered a release of claims against the Company and its affiliates, on a form reasonably satisfactory to the Company (but which shall not require a release of claims for indemnification or coverage under directors and officers liability insurance or of vested benefits), Executive shall be entitled to receive, in full discharge of all of the Companys obligations to Executive:
 
(i)
 
severance in accordance with the senior executive severance policy as then in effect;
 
(ii)
 
the remainder of the option term to exercise all vested options; and
 
(iii)
 
such other or additional benefits to which Executive may be entitled in accordance with applicable employee benefit plans of the Company.
 
Following such termination of Executives at-will employment by the Company following the expiration of the Term of Employment, except as set forth in this Section 4.4, Executive shall have no further rights to any compensation or any other benefits under this Agreement.
 
4.5
 
.  For purposes of Section 4.1(b)(ii) above, the pro-rated portion of the annual bonus referenced in such section shall be determined by multiplying such annual bonus by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of days during such fiscal year that Executive was employed and the denominator of which shall be 365.
Calculation of Bonus
 
4.6
 
.  If Executives employment hereunder is terminated, the Companys payment obligations shall be absolute and unconditional, Executive shall not be obligated to mitigate his damages, and there shall be no offset against any amounts due Executive under this Agreement on account of any remuneration attributable to any subsequent employment that Executive may obtain.
No Mitigation
 
4.7
 
.  Any purported termination of employment by the Company or by Executive (other than due to Executives death) shall be communicated by written Notice of Termination to the other party hereto in accordance with Section 7.1 hereof.  For purposes of this Agreement, a Notice of Termination shall mean a notice which shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of employment under the provision so indicated.
Notice of Termination
 
4.8
 
.  Upon termination of Executives employment for any reason, Executive agrees to resign, as of the date of such termination and to the extent applicable, from the Board (and any committees thereof) and the Board of Directors (and any committees thereof) of any of the Companys subsidiaries or affiliates.
Board/Committee Resignation
 
4.9
 
. Any provision of this Agreement or any other compensation plan, program or agreement to which Executive is a party or under which Executive is covered to the contrary notwithstanding, Executive will not be entitled to any gross-up or other payment  for golden parachute excise taxes Executive may owe pursuant to Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code.  In the event that any severance or other benefits otherwise payable to Executive (i) constitute parachute payments within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code, and (ii) but for this Section 4.9 would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, then such benefits hereunder and under such other plans, programs and agreements shall be either (x) delivered in full, or (y) delivered as to such lesser extent which would result in no portion of such benefits being subject to excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code, whichever of the foregoing amounts, taking into account the applicable federal, state and local income and employment taxes and the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (and any equivalent state or local excise taxes), results in the receipt by Executive on an after-tax basis, of the greatest amount of benefits, notwithstanding that all or some portion of such benefits may be taxable under Section 4999 of the Code.  Unless the Company and Executive otherwise agree in writing, any determination required under this Section 4.9 will be made in writing by independent public accountants as the Company and Executive agree (the Accountants), whose determination will be conclusive and binding upon Executive and the Company for all purposes.  For purposes of making the calculations required by this Section 4.9, the Accountants may make reasonable assumptions and approximations concerning applicable taxes and may rely on reasonable, good faith interpretations concerning the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code.  The Company and Executive agree to furnish to the Accountants such information and documents as the Accountants may reasonably request in order to make a determination under this provision.  The Company will bear all costs the Accountants may reasonably incur in connection with any calculations contemplated by this provision.  Any reduction in payments and/or benefits required by this provision shall occur in the following order: (1) reduction of cash payments, beginning with payments scheduled to occur soonest; (2) reduction of vesting acceleration of equity awards (in reverse order of the date of the grant); and (3) reduction of other benefits paid or provided to Executive.
No Excise Tax Gross-Up; Possible Reduction of Payments
 
 
5.
 
Certain Covenants of Executive
 
5.1
 
.  Executive acknowledges that the services to be furnished by Executive hereunder and the rights and privileges granted to the Company by Executive are of a special, unique, unusual, extraordinary and intellectual character which give them a peculiar value, the loss of which cannot be reasonably or adequately compensated in damages in any action at law, and a breach or threatened breach by Executive of any of the provisions contained in this Section 5 will cause the Company irreparable injury and damage.
Covenants Against Competition
 
5.2
 
.  Executive agrees that, while employed by the Company and for a period of two years thereafter, he will not, in any manner directly or indirectly, own, manage, operate, join, control or participate in the ownership, management, operation or control of, or be employed by, or connected in any manner with, in any capacity (including, without limitation, as an employee, consultant, officer, director, partner, advisor or joint venturer), or provide services to or on behalf of, any corporation, firm or business, or any affiliate of any corporation, firm or business, that directly or indirectly engages in any business which competes with the Company or any of its affiliates in the multi-channel video programming distribution business in the United States or in Latin America (whether satellite, cable, telephone or other method of distribution).  The foregoing does not prohibit Executives ownership of less than five percent (5%) of the outstanding common stock of any company whose shares are publicly traded on a national stock exchange, are reported on NASDAQ, or are regularly traded in the over-the-counter market by a member of a national securities exchange.
Non-Compete
 
5.3
 
.  Executive agrees to abide by the provisions of the Companys Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (receipt of which is hereby acknowledged) at all times during his employment with the Company.
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
 
5.4
 
.  Executive shall not, while employed by the Company and for two years thereafter, directly or indirectly (i) induce, solicit or attempt to induce or solicit any executive, professional or administrative employee of the Company or any of its affiliates, to leave the Company or its affiliates or to render services for any other person, firm or corporation or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any key programming or equipment supplier, or key distributor, to terminate or materially adversely change its relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates.
Non-Solicitation
 
5.5
 
.  Executive acknowledges that the relationship between the parties hereto is exclusively that of employer and employee, and that the Companys obligations to him are exclusively contractual in nature.  The Company and/or its affiliates shall be the sole owner or owners of all the fruits and proceeds of Executives services hereunder, including, but not limited to, all ideas, concepts, formats, suggestions, developments, arrangements, designs, packages, programs, scripts, audio visual materials, promotional materials, photography and other intellectual properties and creative works which Executive may prepare, create, produce or otherwise develop in connection with and during his employment hereunder, including, without limitation, all copyrights and all rights to reproduce, use, authorize others to use and sell such properties or works at any time or place for any purpose, free and clear of any claims by Executive (or anyone claiming under him) of any kind of character whatsoever (other than Executives right to compensation hereunder).  Executive agrees that he will have no right in or to such properties or works and shall not use such properties or works for his own benefit or the benefit of any other person.  Executive shall, at the request of the Company, execute such assignments, certificates, applications, filings, instruments or other documents, consistent herewith, as the Company may from time to time reasonably deem necessary or desirable to evidence, establish, maintain, perfect, protect, enforce or defend its right, title and interest in or to any such properties or works.
Property of the Company
 
5.6
 
.  With the exception of Executives personal files, all memoranda, notes, records and other documents made or compiled by Executive, or made available to him during his employment with the Company concerning the business or affairs of the Company or its affiliates shall be the Companys property and shall be delivered to the Company on the termination of this Agreement or at any other time on request.  Executive shall keep in confidence and shall not use for himself or others, or divulge to others, any information concerning the business or affairs of the Company or its affiliates which is not otherwise publicly available and which is obtained by Executive as a result of his employment, including, but not limited to, trade secrets or processes and information deemed by the Company to be proprietary in nature, including, without limitation, financial information, programming or plans of the Company or its affiliates, unless disclosure is permitted by the Company or required by law.
Confidential Information
 
5.7
 
.  The Company and its affiliates shall have the right to use Executives biography, name and likeness in connection with their business, including in advertising its products and services, but not for use as a direct or indirect endorsement.
Right to Use Name
 
5.8
 
.  Executive agrees that while employed by the Company and at any time thereafter, he will cooperate in the Companys defense or prosecution against any threatened or pending litigation or in any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body (or any appeal from any such litigation, investigation or proceeding) that relates to any events or actions which occurred during the Term of Employment or any Post Term Period.
Cooperation
 
5.9
 
.  The covenants set forth above in this Section 5 (the ) shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Survival
Restrictive Covenants
 
5.10
 
.  If any court determines that any of the Restrictive Covenants, or any part thereof, is invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of the Restrictive Covenants shall not thereby be affected and shall be given full effect, without regard to the invalid portions.
Severability of Covenants
 
5.11
 
.  If any court construes any of the Restrictive Covenants, or any part thereof, to be unenforceable because of the duration of such provision or the area covered thereby, such court shall have the power to reduce the duration or area of such provision and, in its reduced form, such provision shall then be enforceable and shall be enforced.
Blue-Pencilling
 
 
6.
 
.  Executive represents and warrants to the Company that the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Executive and the Company and the performance by Executive of his duties hereunder shall not constitute a breach of, or otherwise contravene, the terms of any employment agreement or other agreement or policy to which Executive is a party or otherwise bound.
Executive Representation
 
 
7.
 
Other Provisions
 
7.1
 
.  Any notice or other communication required or which may be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered by hand or overnight courier or two days after it has been mailed by United States express or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the respective addresses set forth below:
Notices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Such addresses may be changed by written notice sent to the other party at the last recorded address of that party.  Notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
 
7.2
 
.  This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the employment of Executive by the Company.  There are no restrictions, agreements, promises, warranties, covenants or undertakings between the parties with respect to the subject matter herein other than those expressly set forth herein.  This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (including verbal agreements) between Executive and the Company and/or its affiliates regarding the terms and conditions of Executives employment with the Company and/or its affiliates.
Entire Agreement
 
7.3
 
.  This Agreement may be amended, modified, superseded, canceled, renewed or extended, and the terms and conditions hereof may be waived, only by a written instrument signed by the parties or, in the case of a waiver, by the party waiving compliance.  No delay on the part of any party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any waiver on the part of any party of any right, power or privilege hereunder, nor any single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege hereunder.
Waivers and Amendments
 
7.4
 
.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to agreements made within the State of New York, without regard to its conflict of law rules which are deemed applicable herein.  The parties hereto agree that any controversy which may arise under this Agreement or out of the relationship established by this Agreement would involve complicated and difficult factual and legal issues and that, therefore, any action brought by the Company against Executive or brought by Executive, alone or in combination with others, against the Company, whether arising out of this Agreement or otherwise, shall be determined by a judge sitting without a jury.
Governing Law; Consent to Jurisdiction
 
7.5
 
.  This Agreement and the Executives rights and obligations hereunder may not be assigned by Executive.  Any purported assignment or delegation by Executive in violation of the foregoing shall be null and void ab initio and of no force and effect.  The Company may assign this Agreement and its rights, together with its obligations hereunder, to an affiliate of the Company or to a person or entity which is a successor in interest to substantially all of the business operations of the Company.  Upon such assignment, the rights and obligations of the Company hereunder shall become the rights and obligations of such affiliate or successor person or entity.
Assignment
 
7.6
 
.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees.
Successors; Binding Agreement
 
7.7
 
.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) if, at the time of the Executives termination of employment with the Company, the Executive is a specified employee as defined in Section 409A of the Code, and the deferral of the commencement of any payments or benefits otherwise payable hereunder as a result of such termination of employment is necessary in order to prevent the imposition of any accelerated or additional tax under Section 409A of the Code, then the Company will defer the payment of any such payments or benefits hereunder (without any reduction in such payments or benefits ultimately paid or provided to the Executive) until the date that is six months following the Executives termination of employment with the Company (or the earliest date as is permitted under Section 409A of the Code) and (ii) if any other payments of money or other benefits due to the Executive hereunder would cause the application of an accelerated or additional tax under Section 409A of the Code, such payments or other benefits shall be deferred if deferral will make such payment or other benefits compliant under Section 409A of the Code, or otherwise such payment or other benefits shall be restructured, to the extent possible, in a manner, determined by the Board, that does not cause such an accelerated or additional tax or result in an additional cost to the Company.  The Company shall consult with its legal counsel and tax accountants in good faith regarding the implementation of the provisions of this Section 7.7, which shall be done only in a manner that is reasonably acceptable to the Executive; , that neither the Company, any subsidiary or other affiliate of the Company, nor any of their employees or representatives shall have any liability to the Executive with respect thereto.
Section 409A of the Code
provided, however
 
7.8
 
.  The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state and local taxes as may be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
Withholding Taxes
 
7.9
 
.  This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
7.10
 
.  The headings in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the Effective Date, after approval of this Agreement by the Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company, with effect as of the Effective Date.
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A
 
 
 shall mean:  (i) Executives willful and continued failure to perform his material duties with respect to the Company as provided hereunder (other than due to Disability); (ii) the commission of any fraud, misappropriation or misconduct by Executive that causes demonstrable material injury, monetarily or otherwise, to the Company or any affiliate; (iii) Executives conviction of, or plea of guilty or to, a felony; (iv) the failure by Executive to comply, in any material respect, with any applicable restrictive covenants; or (v) the failure by Executive to comply with any other undertaking set forth in his employment agreement or any other agreement Executive has with the Company or any affiliate or any breach by Executive thereof, if such failure or breach is reasonably likely to result in a demonstrable material injury to the Company or any affiliate, in each case, that is not cured, to the extent curable, within 30 days of written notice from the Company or otherwise satisfactorily explained.
Cause
nolo contendere
 
The cessation of employment of Executive shall not be deemed to be for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to Executive a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of seventy-five percent (75%) of the entire membership of the Board (excluding, however, Executive, to the extent he is a member of the Board at such time) at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to Executive and Executive is given an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board) finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board, Cause exists and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.
 
 shall mean Executives inability to perform all of his material duties under the Agreement for more than 180 days in any 360 day period as a result of physical or mental incapacity or illness which is reasonably likely to continue indefinitely.  Any question as to the existence of the Disability of Executive as to which Executive and the Company cannot agree shall be determined in writing by a qualified independent physician mutually acceptable to Executive and the Company.  If Executive and the Company cannot agree as to a qualified independent physician, each shall appoint such a physician and those two physicians shall select a third who shall make such determination in writing.  The determination of Disability made in writing to Executive and the Company shall be final and conclusive for all purposes of the Agreement.
Disability
 
 shall mean the occurrence of any of the following, without Executives consent:  (i) a reduction in Executives base salary or target bonus opportunity; (ii) a reduction in Executives responsibilities, titles, powers, or duties at the Company, or assignment of duties inconsistent with the Executives Position, (iii) the relocation of Executives principal office to a location more than 50 miles from the New York City or Los Angeles metropolitan area; or (iv) Executives voluntary resignation for any reason within 60 days following the first anniversary of a Transformation Event; provided, that any of the events described in clauses (i)  (iii) above shall constitute an Effective Termination only if the Company fails to cure such event within 30 days after receipt from Executive of written notice of the event which constitutes an Effective Termination; and provided further, that Executive shall cease to have a right to terminate due to Effective Termination pursuant to clauses (i)  (iii) above, on the 60th day following the later of the occurrence of the event or Executives knowledge thereof, unless he has given the Company notice thereof prior to such date. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, until one year after a Transformation Event has occurred, no violation of clause (ii) above shall constitute the basis for an Effective Termination if such violation is directly related to such Transformation Event and Executive remains the senior most executive corporate officer of the Company.
Effective Termination
 
A  shall mean the occurrence of some event, transaction or other situation that results in the Company:  (a) no longer being a reporting company whose equity securities are registered under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; or (b) an acquisition, whether directly or indirectly, of at least 30% of the voting power of the Company, unless the members of the Board prior to the acquisition continue to constitute at least 75% of the members of the Board after such acquisition.
Transformation Event
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
(), dated as of January 4, 2010 (), is entered into between DIRECTV a Delaware corporation (), and Michael D. White ().
THIS NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
Agreement
Effective Date
DIRECTV
Executive
 
, at its meeting on December 21, 2009, the Compensation Committee of DIRECTVs Board of Directors (the ) approved the grant to Executive of nonqualified stock options to purchase shares of DIRECTVs Class A common stock, $.01 par value per share (the ), upon the terms and conditions set forth herein and subject to the terms and conditions of the Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Plan of The DIRECTV Group, Inc. (as it may be amended from time to time, the ); and
WHEREAS
Committee
Common Stock
Plan
 
, at its meeting on November 18, 2009, the Board of Directors of The DIRECTV Group, Inc. () approved the material terms and conditions of Executives employment as President and Chief Executive Officer of DIRECTV, including the grant of the non-qualified stock options; and
WHEREAS
Board
 
, the Committee and the Board each has also approved the terms and conditions of an employment agreement with Executive effective as of January 1, 2010 (such agreement, as it may be amended from time to time, is referred to herein as the ); and
WHEREAS
Employment Agreement
 
, both the Committee and the Board authorized the Chairman of the Committee to execute this Agreement on behalf of DIRECTV, in accordance with the resolutions adopted by each of the Committee and the Board at their respective meetings as referenced above.
WHEREAS
 
, in consideration of the services rendered and to be rendered by Executive and the mutual promises made herein and the mutual benefits to be derived there from, DIRECTV and Executive agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
1.
 
.  Any capitalized term used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Plan.
Defined Terms
 
2.
 
.  DIRECTV hereby grants to Executive the right and option to purchase, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, to the extent exercisable, all or any part of an aggregate of 1,011,100 shares of Common Stock at a price () of $33.74 per share of Common Stock (which is the closing market price on the NASDAQ Global Select Market of a share of Common Stock on the date hereof), subject to the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan (the ).
Grant of Options
Grant Price
Option
 
3.
 
.  The Option shall vest and become exercisable as to one-third (rounded to the nearest whole share) of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Option (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 8 or in accordance with Section 14 of the Plan), on each of December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, subject to the applicable provisions of the Plan and this Agreement.  The Option may be exercised only to the extent it shall have vested and is exercisable, and, during Executives lifetime, only by Executive.  In no event may the Executive exercise the Option, in whole or in part, after January 4, 2020 (the ).
Exercisability of Option
Expiration Date
 
(a)
 
.  To the extent Executive does not, at the time of a particular exercise, purchase all the shares of Common Stock that Executive may then purchase, Executive has the right cumulatively thereafter to purchase any of such shares of Common Stock not so purchased until the Expiration Date or, if applicable, the earlier termination of the Option.
Cumulative Exercisability
 
(b)
 
.  Fractional share interests shall be disregarded, but may be cumulated.  No fewer than 100 shares of Common Stock may be purchased at any one time, unless the number purchased is the total number at the time exercisable under the Option.
No Fractional Shares; Minimum Exercise
 
4.
 
.  To the extent vested and exercisable, the Option may be exercised by the delivery to DIRECTV of a written exercise notice stating the number of shares of Common Stock to be purchased pursuant to the Option accompanied by payment of the Grant Price multiplied by the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock to be purchased (such payment to be made in accordance with Section 5) and the payment or provision for any applicable employment or other taxes or withholding for taxes thereon.  Subject to Section 7 below, such Option shall be deemed to be exercised upon receipt and approval by DIRECTV of such written exercise notice accompanied by the aggregate Grant Price and any other payments so required, as permitted pursuant to Section 5.
Exercise of Option
 
5.
 
.  Payment of the aggregate Grant Price shall be by any of the following, or a combination thereof, at the election of Executive:
Method of Payment of Option
 
(a)
 
in cash or by electronic funds transfer, or by check payable to the order of DIRECTV, in the full amount of the purchase price of the shares of Common Stock so purchased and the amount (if any) required to satisfy any applicable withholding taxes;
 
(b)
 
by delivery of shares of Common Stock that have been held by Executive for at least six months, in accordance with Section 7(e) of the Plan, subject to compliance with applicable law;
 
(c)
 
payment may be made in accordance with the cashless exercise program or net exercise program, if any, of DIRECTV in effect at the time of exercise; or
 
(d)
 
in a combination of payments under clauses (a), (b) and (c).
 
Other payment methods may be permitted only if expressly authorized by the Committee consistent with the terms of the Plan.
 
6.
 
.  The vesting schedule requires continued service through each applicable vesting date as a condition to the vesting of the applicable Option and rights and benefits under this Agreement except as otherwise provided in Section 7.  Partial service, even if substantial, during any vesting period will not entitle Executive to any proportionate vesting or avoid or mitigate a termination of rights and benefits upon or following a termination of employment or service except as provided in Section 7 or 9 below or under the Plan.
Continuance of Employment Required
 
7.
 
.  If Executives employment by DIRECTV terminates, the following provisions shall apply with respect to vesting and exercise of the Option after the date of such termination (the ), except that in no event may any portion of the Option be exercised after the Expiration Date:
Effect of Termination of Employment on Exercise Period
Termination Date
 
(a)
 
If Executives employment terminates as a result of Executives death or Disability (as defined in the Employment Agreement), all unvested Options shall vest as of the Termination Date and Executive (or Executives Personal Representative or Beneficiary, as the case may be) may exercise the Option, in whole or in part, at any time on or prior to the Expiration Date.
 
(b)
 
If DIRECTV terminates Executives employment without Cause (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or if Executives employment terminates due to Executives resignation for an Effective Termination (as defined in the Employment Agreement), that portion (if any) of the unvested Option which is equal to the product of (i) the fraction (but not greater than one (1)) determined by adding 18 to the number of calendar months (whole or partial) of Executives employment by DIRECTV, and dividing such number by 36, multiplied by (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Option, shall vest as of the Termination Date and Executive (or Executives Personal Representative or Beneficiary, as the case may be) may exercise such portion of the Option, in whole or in part, at any time prior to the Expiration Date.  Accordingly, if the first sentence of this paragraph (b) is applicable and if Executives employment terminates at any time after June 30, 2011, the entire Option shall be exercisable as provided above.
 
(c)
 
If DIRECTV terminates Executives employment for Cause, or if Executive resigns prior to December 31, 2012, other than for an Effective Termination, any unexercised portion of the Option shall terminate as of the Termination Date.
 
(d)
 
If Executive resigns after December 31, 2012, other than for an Effective Termination, Executive (or Executives Personal Representative or Beneficiary, as the case may be) may exercise the Option, in whole or in part, at any time prior to the third anniversary of the effective date of Executives resignation at which time the Option shall expire.
 
(e)
 
If, at any time after the Termination Date and during the applicable period specified in Section 5.2 (Non-Compete) and 5.4 (Non-Solicitation) of the Employment Agreement, Executive shall have breached, other than in an insignificant or insubstantial fashion, any of the covenants set forth in such Sections of the Employment Agreement, any unexercised portion of the Option shall terminate as of the date of any such breach.
 
8.
 
.  As provided in Section 14 of the Plan, upon the occurrence of certain events relating to or affecting the Common Stock as contemplated by Section 14 of the Plan, the Committee shall, in such manner, to such extent (if any) and at such times as it deems appropriate and equitable in the circumstances, make adjustments in the number, amount and type of shares of Common Stock (or other securities or property) subject to the Option, the Grant Price and the securities deliverable upon exercise of the Option (or any combination thereof) or provide for a cash payment or the assumption, substitution or exchange of the Option or the shares or other securities subject to the Option, based upon the distribution or consideration payable to holders of Common Stock generally.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event DIRECTV declares or distributes dividends to its shareholders prior to exercise of the Option in full, DIRECTV, through action of the Committee, shall appropriately adjust the Option or otherwise appropriately address the effects of any such dividends.  All rights of Executive hereunder are subject to such adjustments and other provisions of the Plan.
Adjustments Upon Specified Events
 
9.
 
.  As permitted by Section 14 of the Plan, and without limiting the authority of the Committee under any of the provisions of Section 14 of the Plan, the Committee retains the right to terminate any portion or all of the Option, to the extent such Option has not vested, upon a dissolution of DIRECTV or a reorganization event or transaction in which DIRECTV does not survive (or does not survive as a public company in respect of its outstanding Common Stock).  This Section 9 is not intended to prevent future vesting (including provision for future vesting) if the Option (or a substituted Award) remains outstanding following a transaction described in Section 14 of the Plan.
Possible Early Termination of Award
 
10.
 
.  Absence from work caused by authorized sick leave or other leave approved in writing by DIRECTV or the Committee shall not be considered a termination of employment by DIRECTV for purposes of Section 7, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
Leaves of Absence
 
11.
 
.
No Limitations on Acceleration; Deferral
 
(a)
 
. The Employment Agreement, in particular Section 4.9 thereof, contains express provisions regarding Section 280G and/or 4999 of the Code of the type described in Section 14(f) of the Plan. Accordingly, the limitations on acceleration set forth in Section 14(f) of the Plan shall not apply to this Award.  A reduction, if any, to this Award or other effect related to Section 280G and/or Section 4999 shall be governed by the Employment Agreement.
No Limitation on Acceleration
 
(b)
 
.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) if, at the time of Executives termination of employment with DIRECTV, Executive is a specified employee as defined in Section 409A of the Code, and the deferral of the commencement of any payments or benefits otherwise payable hereunder as a result of such termination of employment is necessary in order to prevent the imposition of any accelerated or additional tax under Section 409A of the Code, then DIRECTV will defer the commencement of the payment of any such payments or other consideration hereunder (without any reduction in such payments or other consideration ultimately paid or provided to Executive) until the date that is six months following Executives termination of employment with DIRECTV (or the earliest date as is permitted under Section 409A of the Code) and (ii) if any other payments of money or other consideration due to Executive hereunder would cause the application of an accelerated or additional tax under Section 409A of the Code, such payments or other consideration shall be deferred if deferral will make such payment or other consideration compliant under Section 409A of the Code, or otherwise such payment or other consideration shall be restructured, to the extent possible, in a manner, determined by the Committee or the Board, that does not cause such an accelerated or additional tax or result in additional cost to DIRECTV.  DIRECTV shall consult with its legal counsel and tax accountants in good faith regarding the implementation of the provisions of this Section 11(b), which shall be done only in a manner that is reasonably acceptable to Executive; , that neither DIRECTV, any subsidiary or other affiliate of DIRECTV, nor any of their employees or representatives shall have any liability to the Executive with respect thereto.
Section 409A of the Code
provided, however
 
12.
 
.  Neither Executive nor any other person entitled to exercise the Option shall have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of DIRECTV as to any shares of Common Stock subject to the Option until the issuance and delivery to him or such other person of a certificate (or book entry in lieu thereof) evidencing the shares of Common Stock registered in his or such other persons name.  No adjustment will be made for dividends or other rights as a stockholder as to which the record date is prior to such date of delivery, except as otherwise provided in Section 8.
Associated Stock Rights
 
13.
 
.  Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan constitutes an employment or service commitment by DIRECTV, confers upon Executive any right to remain employed by DIRECTV, interferes in any way with the right of DIRECTV at any time to terminate such employment or affects the right of DIRECTV to increase or decrease Executives other compensation or benefits.  Nothing in this Section 13, however, is intended to adversely affect any independent contractual right of Executive under the Employment Agreement (or any other agreement between DIRECTV and Executive) without his consent thereto.
No Guarantee of Continued Service
 
14.
 
.  The Option and any other rights of Executive under this Agreement or the Plan are nontransferable except as provided in Section 15(i) of the Plan.
Non-Transferability of Option
 
15.
 
.  Any notice to be given under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed: to DIRECTV at its office located at 2230 East Imperial Highway, El Segundo, California 90245, to the attention of the Corporate Secretary; and to Executive at the address on file with DIRECTV, or at such other address as either party may hereafter designate in writing to the other.
Notices
 
16.
 
.  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of DIRECTV, except to the extent the Committee determines otherwise.
Effect of Agreement
 
17.
 
.  The Plan is incorporated herein and made a part hereof by this reference.  Subject to Section 19 below, the Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of DIRECTV and Executive with respect to the subject matter hereof.  The construction, interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement and the Option shall be governed by the internal substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of the State of Delaware.
Entire Agreement; Governing Law
 
18.
 
.  The Option and all rights of Executive with respect thereto are subject to, and Executive agrees to be bound by, all of the terms and conditions of the provisions of the Plan, to the extent such provisions are applicable to Awards granted to Eligible Persons.  Executive acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Plan and agrees to be bound by the terms thereof.  Unless otherwise expressly provided in other Sections of this Agreement, provisions of the Plan that confer discretionary authority on the Committee do not (and shall not be deemed to) create any rights in Executive unless such rights are expressly set forth herein or are otherwise in the sole discretion of the Committee specifically so conferred by appropriate action of the Committee under the Plan after the date hereof.
Plan
 
19.
 
.  If any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with any provision of the Employment Agreement, the provisions of the Employment Agreement shall control.
Employment Agreement
 
20.
 
.  This Agreement may be amended in accordance with the terms of the Plan.  Any such amendment must be in writing and signed by DIRECTV.  The terms and conditions of this Agreement may not be restricted or limited by any amendment of this Agreement or the Plan without Executives consent.
Amendment
 
21.
 
.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute on and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
22.
 
.  The Section headings of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to alter or affect any provision hereof.
Section Headings
 
, DIRECTV has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by the Chairman of its Compensation Committee and Executive has hereunto set his hand as of the date and year first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
(this ), dated as of January 4, 2010 (), is entered into between DIRECTV, a Delaware corporation (), and Michael D. White ().
THIS PERFORMANCE STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT
Agreement
Effective Date
DIRECTV
Executive
 
, at its meeting on December 21, 2009, the Compensation Committee of DIRECTVs Board of Directors (the ) approved the grant to Executive of restricted stock units (the ), upon the terms and conditions set forth herein and subject to the terms and conditions of the Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Plan of The DIRECTV Group, Inc. (as it may be amended from time to time, the ); and
WHEREAS
Committee
Stock Units
Plan
 
, at its meeting on November 18, 2009, the Board of Directors of The DIRECTV Group, Inc. () approved the material terms and conditions of Executives employment as President and Chief Executive Officer of DIRECTV, including the grant of the Stock Units; and
WHEREAS
Board
 
, the Committee and the Board each has also approved the terms and conditions of an employment agreement with Executive effective as of January 1, 2010 (such agreement, as it may be amended from time to time, is referred to herein as the ); and
WHEREAS
Employment Agreement
 
, both the Committee and the Board authorized the Chairman of the Committee to execute this Agreement on behalf of DIRECTV, in accordance with the resolutions adopted by each of the Committee and the Board at their respective meetings as referenced above.
WHEREAS
 
, in consideration of services rendered and to be rendered by Executive, and the mutual promises made herein and the mutual benefits to be derived therefrom, DIRECTV and Executive agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
 
1.
 
.  Any capitalized term used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Plan.  Whenever the following words or phrases are used herein with the first letter capitalized, they shall have the respective meaning specified below:
Defined Terms
 
 means the grant to Executive of Stock Units pursuant to this Agreement and the Plan.
Award
 
 means the factor determined annually with respect to the Performance Measures as established by the Committee pursuant to Section 8(a) and used to compute the Final Performance Factor.
Annual Performance Factor
 
 means DIRECTV and its Subsidiaries.
Company
 
 means Executives Termination Date if Executive is terminated without Cause (as defined in the Employment Agreement), or if Executives employment is terminated due to his resignation for an Effective Termination (as defined in the Employment Agreement), or due to his death or Disability (as defined in the Employment Agreement) in each case prior to the Vesting Date.
Early Vesting Date
 
 means the final performance factor determined as of the Vesting Date pursuant to Section 8(a) and used to establish the number of Stock Units (if any) which shall vest under this Agreement.
Final Performance Factor
 
 means one of the three performance measures to be established by the Committee in accordance with Section 10 of the Plan for the Performance Period and Section 2.4(a) of the Employment Agreement.
Performance Measure
 
 means the period beginning on January 1, 2010 and ending on December 31, 2012.
Performance Period
 
 means the date on which Executives employment with the Company terminates, if prior to the Vesting Date.
Termination Date
 
 means December 31, 2012.
Vesting Date
 
2.
 
.  Subject to the terms of this Agreement and the Plan, DIRECTV hereby grants to Executive a Stock Unit Award with respect to an aggregate of Four Hundred Thirty-Five Thousand, Four Hundred (435,400) Stock Units (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 14 of the Plan).  As used herein, the term Stock Unit shall mean a non-voting unit of measurement which is deemed for bookkeeping purposes to be equivalent to one outstanding share of DIRECTVs Class A Common Stock (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 14 of the Plan) solely for purposes of the Plan and this Agreement.  The Stock Units shall be used solely as a device for the determination of the payment to be made to Executive if such Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 3 or Section 7.  The Stock Units shall not be treated as property or as a trust fund of any kind.  This Award is intended to be a Performance-Based Award, as defined in Section 10 of the Plan.
Grant
 
3.
 
.  Subject to Section 7, as of the Vesting Date, the Award shall vest and become nonforfeitable with respect to that number of Stock Units determined by multiplying the Final Performance Factor times the total number of Stock Units comprising the Award (subject to adjustment under Section 14 of the Plan).
Performance Based Vesting
 
4.
 
.  Except as otherwise provided in Section 7 or pursuant to the Plan or the Employment Agreement, Executives continued employment or service through the Vesting Date is required as a condition to the vesting of the Award and the rights and benefits under this Agreement.  Partial employment or service, even if substantial, during the Performance Period will not entitle Executive to any proportionate vesting or avoid or mitigate a termination of rights and benefits upon or following a termination of employment or services, except as otherwise provided in Section 7 below or under the Plan or the Employment Agreement.
Continuance of Employment
 
5.
 
.  Executive shall have no rights as a stockholder of DIRECTV, no dividend rights (except as expressly provided in Section 8(c) with respect to Dividend Equivalents) and no voting rights, with respect to the Stock Units and any shares of Common Stock underlying or issuable in respect of such Stock Units, until such shares of Common Stock are actually issued to and held of record by Executive.  No adjustments will be made for dividends or other rights of a holder for which the record date is prior to the date of issuance of the shares of Common Stock, except as otherwise provided in Section 8(c).
Limitations on Rights Associated with Stock Units
 
6.
 
.  Neither the Stock Units nor any interest therein or amount or shares payable in respect thereof may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of, alienated or encumbered, either voluntarily or involuntarily.  The transfer restrictions in the preceding sentence shall not apply to (a) transfers to DIRECTV, (b) transfers by will or the laws of descent and distribution, or (c) transfers permitted under Section 15(i) of the Plan.
Restrictions on Transfer
 
7.
 
.  If DIRECTV terminates Executives employment for Cause (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or if Executives employment terminates other than due to his death, Disability (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or termination without Cause (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or resignation by Executive for an Effective Termination (as defined in the Employment Agreement), the Award of Stock Units hereunder and all other rights and benefits of Executive under this Agreement shall terminate on Executives Termination Date, unless otherwise approved by the Committee.  If DIRECTV terminates Executives employment without Cause or if Executives employment terminates due to his death or Disability, or due to his resignation for an Effective Termination, prior to the Vesting Date, the Award shall immediately vest on the Early Vesting Date as to the total number of Stock Units comprising the Award (subject to Section 14 of the Plan) without regard to the level of performance with respect to the Performance Measures.
Effect of Termination of Employment on Vesting
 
8.
 
.
Timing and Manner of Distribution with Respect to Stock Units
 
(a)
 
.
Determination of Number of Vested Stock Units
 
On or prior to the last day of February in each of 2011 and 2012, the Committee shall determine the Annual Performance Factor for the immediately preceding fiscal year, in accordance with the Plan.  As soon as practicable after the Vesting Date, the Committee shall determine the Annual Performance Factor for the 2012 fiscal year and shall determine the Final Performance Factor, in accordance with the Plan.  The Final Performance Factor, as so determined by the Committee, shall be multiplied by the total number of Stock Units comprising this Award to determine the number of Stock Units that have become vested as of the Vesting Date.  In the case of an Early Vesting Date, the number of vested Stock Units shall be as provided in Section 7.
 
(b)
 
.
Timing and Manner of Distribution
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, DIRECTV shall deliver to Executive the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of vested Stock Units subject to this Award (subject to Section 14 of the Plan and subject to Sections 8(e) and 12 below) on the later of (i) January 15th of the calendar year following the calendar year of Executives termination of employment or (ii) the date that is six months after Executives termination of employment.
 
(c)
 
.
Dividend Equivalents
 
As of the Vesting Date (or, if applicable, the Early Vesting Date) Executive shall be entitled to payment for Dividend Equivalents (if any) with respect to vested Stock Units. For purposes of this Agreement,  means the aggregate amount of dividends paid by DIRECTV on the number of shares of Common Stock equivalent to the number of Stock Units that become vested during the period from the Effective Date until the date the shares of DIRECTV Common Stock associated with the vested Stock Units are issued or the cash amount paid (without interest or other adjustments to reflect the time value of money but subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 14 of the Plan).  Dividend Equivalents (if any) will be paid at the same time as the shares of DIRECTV Common Stock associated with the vested Stock Units to which they relate are issued or the cash amount provided for in Section 8(e) is paid.  Dividend Equivalents shall be paid in cash except as otherwise provided in Section 8(f).
Dividend Equivalents
 
(d)
 
.
Termination of Stock Units
 
To the extent that any Stock Units fail to vest as of the Vesting Date, or if the Award has terminated pursuant to Section 7, such unvested Stock Units shall immediately terminate without payment.  Executive shall have no further rights with respect to such terminated Stock Units.
 
(e)
 
.
Payment of Cash in Lieu of Common Stock
 
Notwithstanding anything in Section 8(b) to the contrary, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may elect to cause the Company to pay cash in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of the vested Stock Units, determined as of the date on which the shares of Common Stock would otherwise have been issued pursuant to Section 8(b) and payable within ten business days after such date.
 
(f)
 
Payment of Common Stock in Lieu of Cash for Dividend Equivalents
 
Notwithstanding anything in Section 8(c) to the contrary, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may elect to cause the Company to pay Dividend Equivalents (if any) in shares of Common Stock in lieu of cash, if and to the extent that DIRECTV issues shares of Common Stock to Executive in respect of the vested Stock Units pursuant to Section 8(b).  The number of shares of Common Stock payable as Dividend Equivalents will be determined by (i) determining the aggregate cash amount of Dividend Equivalents payable, and (ii) dividing such amount by the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the same date on which the Fair Market Value of shares of Common Stock associated with the vested Stock Units are established.
 
9.
 
.  As provided in Section 14 of the Plan, upon the occurrence of certain events relating to or affecting the Common Stock as contemplated by Section 14 of the Plan, the Committee shall, in such manner, to such extent (if any) and at such times as it deems appropriate and equitable in the circumstances, make adjustments in the number of Stock Units and the number and type of shares of Common Stock (or other securities or property) that may be issued in respect of the Award or provide for a cash payment or the assumption, substitution or exchange of the Award or the shares of Common Stock or other securities subject to the Award, based upon the distribution or consideration payable to holders of Common Stock generally.  All rights of Executive hereunder are subject to such adjustments and other provisions of the Plan.
Adjustments Upon Specified Events
 
10.
 
.  As permitted by Section 14 of the Plan, and without limiting the authority of the Committee under any of the provisions of Section 14 of the Plan, the Committee retains the right to terminate all or any portion of the Award upon a dissolution of DIRECTV or a reorganization event or transaction in which DIRECTV does not survive (or does not survive as a public company in respect of its outstanding Common Stock).  This Section 10 is not intended to prevent future vesting (including provision for future vesting) if the Award (or a substituted Award) remains outstanding following a transaction described in Section 14 of the Plan.
Possible Early Termination of Award
 
11.
 
.  Absence from work caused by authorized sick leave or other leave approved in writing by DIRECTV or the Committee shall not be considered a termination of employment by DIRECTV for purposes of Section 7, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
Leaves of Absence
 
12.
 
.
No Limitations on Acceleration; Deferral
 
(a)
 
.
No Limitation on Acceleration
 
The Employment Agreement, in particular Section 4.9 thereof, contains express provisions regarding Section 280G and/or 4999 of the Code of the type described in Section 14(f) of the Plan. Accordingly, the limitations on acceleration set forth in Section 14(f) of the Plan shall not apply to this Award.  A reduction, if any, to this Award or other effect related to Section 280G and/or Section 4999 shall be governed by the Employment Agreement.
 
(b)
 
.
Section 409A of the Code
 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) if, at the time of Executives termination of employment with DIRECTV, Executive is a specified employee as defined in Section 409A of the Code, and the deferral of the commencement of any payments or other consideration otherwise payable hereunder as a result of such termination of employment is necessary in order to prevent the imposition of any accelerated or additional tax under Section 409A of the Code, then DIRECTV will defer the commencement of the payment of any such payments or other consideration hereunder (without any reduction in such payments or other consideration ultimately paid or provided to Executive) until the date that is six months following Executives termination of employment with DIRECTV (or the earliest date as is permitted under Section 409A of the Code) and (ii) if any other payments of money or other consideration due to Executive hereunder would cause the application of an accelerated or additional tax under Section 409A of the Code, such payments or other consideration shall be deferred if deferral will make such payment or other consideration compliant under Section 409A of the Code, or otherwise such payment or other benefits shall be restructured, to the extent possible in a manner, determined by the Committee or the Board, that does not cause such an accelerated or additional tax or result in an additional cost to DIRECTV.  DIRECTV shall consult with its legal counsel and tax accountants in good faith regarding the implementation of the provisions of this Section 12(b), which shall be done only in a manner that is reasonably acceptable to Executive; , that neither DIRECTV, any subsidiary or other affiliate of DIRECTV, nor any of their employees or representatives shall have any liability to Executive with respect thereto.
provided, however
 
13.
 
.  Neither Executive nor any Beneficiary or Personal Representative of Executive shall have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of DIRECTV as to any shares of Class A Common Stock subject to the Award until the issuance and delivery to him or such other person of a certificate (or book entry in lieu thereof) evidencing the shares registered in his or such other persons name.  No adjustment will be made for dividends or other rights as a stockholder as to which the record date is prior to such date of delivery, except as otherwise provided in Section 8(c) or as otherwise approved by the Committee.
Executive Not a Shareholder
 
14.
 
.  Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan constitutes an employment or service commitment by DIRECTV or confers upon Executive any right to remain employed by DIRECTV, interferes in any way with the right of DIRECTV at any time to terminate such employment or affects the right of DIRECTV to increase or decrease Executives other compensation or benefits.  Nothing in this Section 14, however, is intended to adversely affect any independent contractual right of Executive under the Employment Agreement (or any other agreement between DIRECTV and Executive) without his consent thereto.
No Guarantee of Continued Service
 
15.
 
.  Any notice to be given under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed: to DIRECTV at 2230 East Imperial Highway, El Segundo, California 90245, to the attention of the Corporate Secretary; and to Executive at the address on file with DIRECTV, or at such other address as either party may hereafter designate in writing to the other.
Notices
 
16.
 
.  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of DIRECTV, except to the extent the Committee determines otherwise.
Effect of Agreement
 
17.
 
.  The Plan is incorporated herein and made a part hereof by this reference.  Subject to Section 19 below, the Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of DIRECTV and Executive with respect to the subject matter hereof.  The construction, interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement and the Award shall be governed by the internal substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of the State of Delaware.
Entire Agreement; Governing Law
 
18.
 
.  The Award and all rights of Executive with respect thereto are subject to, and Executive agrees to be bound by, all of the terms and conditions of the provisions of the Plan, to the extent such provisions are applicable to Awards granted to Eligible Persons.  Executive acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Plan, and agrees to be bound by the terms thereof.  Unless otherwise expressly provided in other Sections of this Agreement, provisions of the Plan that confer discretionary authority on the Committee do not (and shall not be deemed to) create any rights in Executive unless such rights are expressly set forth herein or are otherwise in the sole discretion of the Committee specifically so conferred by appropriate action of the Committee under the Plan after the date hereof.
Plan
 
19.
 
.  If any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with any provision of the Employment Agreement, the provisions of the Employment Agreement shall control.
Employment Agreement
 
20.
 
.  Upon the distribution of shares of the Common Stock in respect of the Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents, or payment of cash in respect of the Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents, if any, pursuant to Section 8(c) or otherwise in accordance with the Plan, DIRECTV shall have the right at its option to (a) require Executive to pay or provide for payment in cash of the amount of any taxes that DIRECTV may be required to withhold with respect to such distribution, or (b) deduct from any amount payable to Executive the amount of any taxes which DIRECTV may be required to withhold with respect to such payment or distribution.  In any case where a tax is required to be withheld in connection with the delivery of shares of Common Stock or other payment under this Agreement, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, direct DIRECTV to reduce the number of shares of Common Stock to be delivered by (or otherwise reacquire) the appropriate number of shares of Common Stock, valued at their then Fair Market Value, to satisfy such withholding obligation.
Tax Withholding
 
21.
 
.  Participation in the Plan confers no rights or interests other than as herein provided.  This Agreement creates only a contractual obligation on the part of DIRECTV as to amounts payable and shall not be construed as creating a trust.  Neither the Plan nor any underlying program, in and of itself, has any assets.  Executive shall have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of DIRECTV with respect to amounts credited and benefits payable in cash, if any, with respect to the Stock Units and the Dividend Equivalents (if any), and rights no greater than the right to receive the Common Stock (or equivalent value) as a general unsecured creditor with respect to Stock Units and the Dividend Equivalents (if any), as and when payable hereunder.
Limitation on Executives Rights
 
22.
 
.  This Agreement may be amended in accordance with the terms of the Plan.  Any such amendment must be in writing and signed by DIRECTV.  The terms and conditions of this Agreement may not be restricted or limited by any amendment of this Agreement or the Plan without Executives consent.
Amendment
 
23.
 
.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
24.
 
.  The Section headings of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to alter or affect any provision hereof.
Section Headings
 
has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by the Chairman of its Compensation Committee and Executive has hereunto set his hand as of the date and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, DIRECTV
 


