FILE:DTV/DTV-8K-20100805111600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
(General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
see
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 5, 2010, DIRECTV (the Company) issued a press release, which contained information regarding the second quarter 2010 consolidated results of the Company. The press release did not include certain financial statements, related notes and certain other financial information that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. A copy of the press release relating to such announcement, dated August 5, 2010, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
2
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
DIRECTV Announces Second Quarter 2010 Results
DIRECTV Adds 515,000 Net New Subscribers
Increase driven by all-time record performance of 415,000 net new subscribers at DIRECTV Latin America and 100,000 net additions at DIRECTV U.S.
DIRECTV extends global leadership position by topping 26 million customers in the United States, Latin America and Mexico
DIRECTV Grows Revenues 12% to $5.85 Billion and Net Income 33% to $543 Million.
Revenues boosted by strong ARPU growth of 5.7% at DIRECTV U.S. and 3.1% at DIRECTV Latin America
Net Income fueled by operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin improvement of 7.4 percentage points at DIRECTV Latin America and 0.9 percentage points at DIRECTV U.S.
DIRECTV Free Cash Flow Increases 40% to $1.41 Billion Year-to-Date
DIRECTV Repurchases $1.72 Billion of Company Stock in the Second Quarter; Board Approves an Additional $2.0 Billion Stock Repurchase Program
EL SEGUNDO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--August 5, 2010--DIRECTV (NASDAQ:DTV) today reported an increase in second quarter 2010 revenues of 12% to $5.85 billion, operating profit before depreciation and amortization (OPBDA) of 18% to $1.64 billion and operating profit of 44% to $1.01 billion compared with last years second quarter. DIRECTV reported that second quarter net income increased 33% to $543 million and diluted earnings per share, excluding the $0.18 per share impact from the Malone transaction, grew 50% to $0.60 compared with the same period last year.
1
Building on our first quarter momentum, DIRECTV delivered yet another excellent quarter highlighted by solid double-digit revenue growth, significant margin expansion and record-setting subscriber growth in Latin America, said Mike White, president and CEO of DIRECTV. Our industry leading revenue and earnings growth continues to be driven by the strength of our brand, an unparalleled set of compelling video products and services, and an intense focus on achieving operational excellence through increased productivity and operating efficiencies in both our U.S. and Latin American businesses.
White added, In addition to our solid financial results, the second quarter was also marked by several other achievements including the introduction of two important new servicesWhole Home DVR and a suite of three dedicated 3D channelswhile also delivering the most comprehensive FIFA World Cup coverage across the Americas. Also in the quarter, we repurchased $1.72 billion of our stock bringing year-to-date repurchases to nearly $2.2 billion. Finally, we completed the simplification of our ownership structure by eliminating the dual class stock of DIRECTV, and now for the first time, DIRECTV is a truly independent company.
Second Quarter Review
DIRECTVs second quarter revenues of $5.85 billion increased 12% over the same period last year principally due to strong subscriber and ARPU growth at DIRECTV U.S. and DIRECTV Latin America (DTVLA), as well as $57 million of net revenue generated by DIRECTV Sports Networks which was acquired as part of the transaction with Liberty Media Corporation in November 2009. Operating profit before depreciation and amortization (OPBDA) increased 18% to $1.64 billion and operating profit increased 44% to $1.01 billion primarily due to gross profit associated with higher revenues partially offset by an increase in G&A expenses at DIRECTV U.S. primarily due to higher legal expenses, lower prior year compensation expenses due to the departure of the previous DIRECTV CEO, as well as other miscellaneous costs. Also impacting the comparison was an increase in subscriber acquisition costs mostly related to higher gross additions in Latin America and lower G&A expenses at DTVLA primarily due to a reduction in currency-related transaction charges in Venezuela. Operating profit was also favorably impacted by the completion of amortization for a subscriber-related intangible asset at DIRECTV U.S. and lower depreciation expense associated with a reduction in set-top box capital expenditures over the last several years.
Second quarter net income attributable to DIRECTV increased 33% to $543 million driven by the higher operating profit partially offset by higher tax expense principally due to the increase in pre-tax earnings, as well as higher interest expense due to higher average debt balances. Also impacting the comparison was a $38 million gain in the second quarter 2009 associated with the revaluation of U.S. dollar denominated monetary net-liabilities in Brazil compared with a $3 million loss in the same period of 2010 (these amounts are recorded in Other, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations).
Also in the quarter, DIRECTV resolved an FCC issue regarding our Puerto Rico operations by consummating a transaction with Dr. John C. Malone and members of his family. Under the terms of the agreement, the Malones exchanged 21.8 million shares of Class B common stock of the Company, which was all of the outstanding Class B shares, for 26.5 million shares of Class A common stock. The additional 4.7 million shares, valued at approximately $160 million reduced the diluted earnings per share attributable to Class A shareholders to $0.42. Excluding the impact of the exchange, diluted earnings per share were $0.60  a 50% increase over second quarter 2009s diluted earnings per share of $0.40. The improvement was driven by the higher net income as well as a lower average share count resulting from stock repurchases made over the last year and a reduction in share count resulting from the Liberty transaction in November 2009.
Cash flow before interest and taxes increased 16% to $910 million primarily due to the higher OPBDA partially offset by increased capital expenditures mostly due to higher gross additions and penetrations of advanced equipment at DTVLA, as well as increased satellite expenditures at DIRECTV U.S. Also impacting the comparison were lower dividend payments, primarily from Sky Mexico. Free cash flow declined by 30% to $383 million compared to the second quarter 2009 as the higher cash flow before interest and taxes was more than offset by an increase in tax payments associated with higher pre-tax income and the impact of the 2008 and 2009 government economic stimulus programs. Also affecting the comparison was an increase in interest payments related to higher average debt balances in the quarter. In addition, DIRECTV repurchased $1.72 billion of common stock and repaid $90 million of senior secured credit facilities in the current period
3
4
.
Year-to-Date Review
DIRECTVs first half revenues of $11.46 billion increased 13% over the same period last year principally due to strong subscriber and ARPU growth at both DIRECTV U.S. and DIRECTV Latin America, as well as $114 million of net revenue generated by the DIRECTV Sports Networks. Operating profit before depreciation and amortization increased 30% to $3.21 billion and operating profit increased 75% to $1.97 billion primarily due to gross profit associated with higher revenues. Also contributing to the growth were lower general and administrative expenses at DIRECTV Latin America primarily due to a reduction in currency-related transaction charges in Venezuela. Operating profit was also favorably impacted by the completion of amortization for a subscriber-related intangible asset at DIRECTV U.S. and lower depreciation expense associated with a reduction in set-top box capital expenditures over the last several years.
In the first six months of 2010, net income attributable to DIRECTV increased 81% to $1.10 billion driven by the higher operating profit as well a $67 million gain from the final settlement of the equity collars assumed in the Liberty transaction. These gains were partially offset by higher tax expense principally resulting from the increase in pre-tax earnings as well as greater interest expense due to higher average debt balances. Also impacting the comparison was a $38 million gain in the first half of 2009 associated with the revaluation of U.S. dollar denominated monetary net-liabilities in Brazil compared with an $11 million loss in the same period of 2010. Excluding the $160 million related to the Malone transaction, diluted earnings per share nearly doubled to $1.19 due to the higher net income as well as lower average share count resulting from stock repurchases made over the last year and a reduction in share count resulting from the Liberty transaction.
Cash flow before interest and taxes increased 47% to $1.98 billion and free cash flow increased 40% to $1.41 billion compared to the first six months of 2009 primarily due to the higher OPBDA. In addition, free cash flow was negatively impacted by higher tax payments in the first half of 2010 associated with an increase in pre-tax income as well as the 2008 and 2009 government economic stimulus programs. In the first six months, cash paid for share repurchases (which began February 24,2010) was $2.19 billionIn March 2010, DIRECTV U.S. completed a $3.0 billion debt financing consisting of $1.2 billion in 3.550% Senior Notes due 2015, $1.3 billion in 5.200% Senior Notes due 2020 and $0.5 billion in 6.350% Senior Notes due 2040. DIRECTV also repaid $1.10 billion of senior secured credit facilities, including $985 million for the complete repayment of its Term Loan C and made payments of $1.54 billion to repay the debt and associated equity collars assumed in the Liberty transaction.
3
4
.
In the quarter, DIRECTV U.S. revenues increased 9% to $4.93 billion primarily due to strong ARPU growth and the larger subscriber base. ARPU of $87.90 increased 5.7% due to programming package price increases, higher HD and DVR service fees, as well as higher pay-per-view, premium movie and advertising sales. Net additions of 100,000 were lower than a year ago primarily due to last years transition of free-to-air broadcasts from analog to digital, as well as a tougher competitive environment. DIRECTV U.S. ended the quarter with 18.76 million subscribers compared with 18.31 million subscribers reported on June 30, 2009.
Second quarter OPBDA increased 12% to $1.39 billion and operating profit increased 38% to $899 million due to gross profit associated with higher revenues partially offset by an increase in general and administrative costs primarily due to higher legal expenses, lower prior year second quarter compensation expenses related to the departure of the previous DIRECTV CEO, as well as other miscellaneous costs. Operating profit was also favorably impacted by the completion of amortization for a subscriber-related intangible asset and lower depreciation expense associated with a reduction in set-top box capital expenditures over the last several years.
DIRECTV Latin America Segment
DIRECTV owns approximately 74% of Sky Brazil, 41% of Sky Mexico and 100% of PanAmericana, which covers most of the remaining countries in the region. Sky Mexico, whose results are accounted for as an equity method investment and therefore are not consolidated by DIRECTV Latin America (DTVLA), had approximately 2.45 million subscribers as of June 30, 2010 bringing the total subscribers in the region to 7.67 million.
Second Quarter Review
Revenues for DIRECTV Latin America increased 26% to $857 million in the quarter principally due to record subscriber growth and a 3.1% increase in ARPU. DTVLAs second quarter gross additions increased 82% to an all-time record of 660,000 resulting from strong growth across the region but particularly in Brazil, Argentina and Colombia primarily due to the impact from the World Cup soccer tournament, a stable macro-economic environment, continued strong demand for HD, DVR and pre-paid services, as well as targeted customer promotions aimed at the middle-market segment. Also in the quarter, average monthly churn fell 28 basis points to 1.63% as both post-paid and pre-paid monthly churn rates declined from the prior year period. As a result, net subscriber additions more than tripled to 415,000. The increase in ARPU to $56.98 was mostly due to favorable exchange rates in Brazil, as well as price increases and higher sales of HD and DVR services throughout the region, partially offset by the January 2010 devaluation in Venezuela.
DIRECTV Latin Americas second quarter 2010 OPBDA of $265 million was 66% higher than last years second quarter and operating profit nearly doubled to $140 million primarily due to gross profit associated with higher revenue, as well as a smaller charge in connection with the exchange of Venezuelan currency to U.S. dollars ($48 million in the second quarter of 2009 compared with $9 million in the current quarter). These increases were partially offset by increased subscriber acquisition costs associated with the higher gross additions. Also impacting operating profit were higher depreciation expenses mostly due to the increase in set-top boxes deployed related to the higher gross subscriber additions attained over the last year.
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
A live webcast of DIRECTVs second quarter 2010 earnings call will be available on the companys website at . The webcast will begin at 11:00 a.m. ET, today August 5, 2010. Access to the earnings call is also available in the United States by dialing (800) 406-5356 and internationally by dialing (913) 312-0714. The conference ID number is 1451285. A replay of the call can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S. and 719-457-0820 internationally. The Replay pass code is 1451285. The replay will be available from 1:00 p.m. PT Thursday, August 5 through 9:59 p.m. PT Thursday, August 12 and will also be archived on our website at .
www.directv.com/investor
www.directv.com/investor
FOOTNOTES
(1) Operating profit before depreciation and amortization, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Please see each of DIRECTV and DIRECTV Holdings LLCs Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 for further discussion of operating profit before depreciation and amortization. Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin is calculated by dividing operating profit before depreciation and amortization by total revenues.
(2) See reconciliation of adjusted diluted earnings per share to diluted earnings per share at the end of this release.
(3) Cash flow before interest and taxes, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with GAAP, is calculated by deducting amounts under the captions Cash paid for property and equipment, Cash paid for satellites, Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  subscriber acquisitions and Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  upgrade and retention from Net cash provided by operating activities from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and adding back net interest paid and Cash paid for income taxes. This financial measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of cash flows from operating activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP. DIRECTV and DIRECTV U.S. management use cash flow before interest and taxes to evaluate the cash generated by our current subscriber base, net of capital expenditures, and excluding the impact of interest and taxes, for the purpose of allocating resources to activities such as adding new subscribers, retaining and upgrading existing subscribers, for additional capital expenditures and as a measure of performance for incentive compensation purposes. DIRECTV and DIRECTV U.S. believe this measure is useful to investors, along with other GAAP measures (such as cash flows from operating and investing activities), to compare our operating performance to other communications, entertainment and media companies. We believe that investors also use current and projected cash flow before interest and taxes to determine the ability of our current and projected subscriber base to fund required and discretionary spending and to help determine the financial value of the company.
(4) Free cash flow, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with GAAP, is calculated by deducting amounts under the captions Cash paid for property and equipment, Cash paid for satellites, Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  subscriber acquisitions, and Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  upgrade and retention from Net cash provided by operating activities from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. This financial measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of cash flows from operating activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP. DIRECTV and DIRECTV U.S. management use free cash flow to evaluate the cash generated by our current subscriber base, net of capital expenditures, for the purpose of allocating resources to activities such as adding new subscribers, retaining and upgrading existing subscribers, for additional capital expenditures and as a measure of performance for incentive compensation purposes. DIRECTV and DIRECTV U.S. believe this measure is useful to investors, along with other GAAP measures (such as cash flows from operating and investing activities), to compare our operating performance to other communications, entertainment and media companies. We believe that investors also use current and projected free cash flow to determine the ability of our current and projected subscriber base to fund required and discretionary spending and to help determine the financial value of the company.
(5) DIRECTV Latin America subscriber data exclude subscribers of the Sky Mexico service. Gross and net subscriber additions as well as churn exclude the impact of the migration of approximately 3,000 subscribers from DIRECTV Latin America to Sky Mexico in the first half of 2009 as well as the impact of the migration of 6,000 subscribers to DIRECTV Latin America in the second quarter 2009. Cumulative subscriber totals include the impact of the migrated and acquired subscribers.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
NOTE: This release may include or incorporate by reference certain statements that we believe are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of various provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by use of statements that include phrases such as believe, expect, estimate, anticipate, intend, plan, project or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe our objectives, plans or goals also are forward-looking statements. All of these forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or from those expressed or implied by the relevant forward-looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: economic conditions; product demand and market acceptance; ability to simplify aspects of our business model, improve customer service, create new and desirable programming content and interactive features, and achieve anticipated economies of scale; government action; local political or economic developments in or affecting countries where we have operations, including political, economic and social uncertainties in many Latin American countries in which DTVLA operates; foreign currency exchange rates; currency exchange controls; ability to obtain export licenses; competition; the outcome of legal proceedings; ability to achieve cost reductions; ability of third parties to timely perform material contracts; ability to renew programming contracts under favorable terms; technological risk; limitations on access to distribution channels; the success and timeliness of satellite launches; in-orbit performance of satellites, including technical anomalies; loss of uninsured satellites; theft of satellite programming signals; and our ability to access capital to maintain our financial flexibility. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements.
DIRECTV (NASDAQ:DTV) is the worlds leading provider of digital television entertainment services. Through its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the United States, Brazil, Mexico and other countries in Latin America, DIRECTV provides digital television service to more than 18.7 million customers in the United States and over 7.6 million customers in Latin America. DIRECTV sports and entertainment properties include three regional sports networks (Northwest, Rocky Mountain and Pittsburgh) as well as a 65 percent ownership interest in Game Show Network. For more information on DIRECTV, visit directv.com.
CONTACT: DIRECTV Media Contact: Darris Gringeri, 212-205-0882 or Investor Relations: 310-964-0808


