FILE:DTV/DTV-8K-20100506134129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
(General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
see
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 6, 2010, DIRECTV (the Company) issued a press release, which contained information regarding the first quarter 2010 consolidated results of the Company. The press release did not include certain financial statements, related notes and certain other financial information that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. A copy of the press release relating to such announcement, dated May 6, 2010, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
DIRECTV Announces First Quarter 2010 Results
DIRECTV Revenues Grow 14% to $5.61 Billion
Increase primarily due to strong ARPU growth of 6.4% at DIRECTV U.S. and 9.5% at DIRECTV Latin America
Results also driven by 321,000 net subscriber additions at DIRECTV, including record first quarter net additions of 221,000 at DIRECTV Latin America
DIRECTV Free Cash Flow More Than Doubles to $1.03 Billion
Free cash flow growth driven by a 32% increase in DIRECTV U.S. operating profit before depreciation and amortization to $1.31 billion and a more than doubling at DIRECTV Latin America to $244 million
Free cash flow growth also fueled by 450 basis point increase in DIRECTV U.S. operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin to 27.4%
DIRECTV Nearly Triples Diluted Earnings per Share to $0.59
Board Approves Companys Plan to Reach 2.5 Times Leverage Target by Year-End 2011
EL SEGUNDO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 6, 2010--DIRECTV (NASDAQ:DTV) today reported an increase in first quarter 2010 revenues of 14% to $5.61 billion, operating profit before depreciation and amortization (OPBDA) of 44% to $1.58 billion and a more than doubling of operating profit to $956 million compared to last years first quarter. DIRECTV reported that first quarter net income more than doubled to $558 million and diluted earnings per share nearly tripled to $0.59 compared with the same period last year.
1
Were starting 2010 with record-setting financial results that point to the tremendous operating and financial strengths of our businesses in both the U.S. and Latin America, said Mike White, president and CEO of DIRECTV. Driven by our differentiated and compelling suite of products and services offered throughout the Americas, DIRECTV achieved solid double digit revenue growth, significant margin expansion and a more than doubling of free cash flow in the quarter to an all-time high level.
White added, Our top priority for creating shareholder value will be to continue reinvesting in our core businesses but we are also committed to returning excess cash flow and liquidity to shareholders in a timely manner. In that regard, our Board approved the Companys plan to reach a total debt to DIRECTV U.S. OPBDA leverage target of 2.5 times by the end of next year which we expect to achieve by opportunistically accessing the debt markets and repurchasing our shares. In addition, we will continue reviewing alternative ways of returning capital to shareholders with our Board on an ongoing basis.
White finished, Looking forward, we plan to build on DIRECTVs operating momentum and its heritage of innovation. We have already begun extending our HD leadership as we launch more than 30 new HD channels over the coming weeks. Later this year, we will introduce several other compelling products including a greatly enhanced DIRECTV Cinema, multi-room viewing, 3D programming and the debut of our much-anticipated home media center. We also have exciting growth plans in Latin America highlighted by unparalleled coverage of the FIFA World Cup beginning next month including the regions most comprehensive HD coverage and daily broadcasts of original content.
DIRECTVS OPERATIONAL REVIEW
First Quarter Review
DIRECTVs first quarter revenues of $5.61 billion increased 14% over the same period last year principally due to strong subscriber and ARPU growth at DIRECTV U.S. and DIRECTV Latin America, as well as $57 million of revenue mostly related to DIRECTV Sports Networks which was acquired as part of the transaction with Liberty Media Corporation in November 2009. Operating profit before depreciation and amortization increased 44% to $1.58 billion and operating profit more than doubled to $956 million primarily due to gross profit associated with higher revenues. Also contributing to the growth were lower subscriber acquisition costs at DIRECTV U.S. related to the decline in gross subscriber additions and lower general and administrative expenses at DIRECTV Latin America primarily due to a reduction in currency-related transaction charges in Venezuela. Operating profit was also favorably impacted by the completion of amortization for a subscriber-related intangible asset at DIRECTV U.S.
Net income attributable to DIRECTV more than doubled to $558 million and diluted earnings per share nearly tripled to $0.59 compared with the first quarter of last year primarily due to higher operating profit and a $67 million gain from the final settlement of the equity collars assumed in the Liberty transaction. These gains were partially offset by higher tax expense principally resulting from the increase in pre-tax earnings.
Cash flow before interest and taxes increased 91% to $1.07 billion and free cash flow more than doubled to $1.03 billion compared to the first quarter 2009 primarily due to higher OPBDA and a decline in capital expenditures driven by lower deployments of set-top receivers for new and existing customers at DIRECTV U.S. Cash paid for share repurchases which began February 24,2010, was $466 million in the quarter.In March 2010, DIRECTV U.S. completed a $3.0 billion debt financing consisting of $1.2 billion in 3.550% Senior Notes due 2015, $1.3 billion in 5.200% Senior Notes due 2020 and $0.5 billion in 6.350% Senior Notes due 2040. DIRECTV also repaid $1.01 billion of senior secured facilities, including $985 million for the complete repayment of its Term Loan C and made payments of $1.54 billion to repay the debt and associated equity collars assumed in the Liberty transaction.
2
3
SEGMENT FINANCIAL REVIEW
DIRECTV U.S. Segment
First Quarter Review
In the quarter, DIRECTV U.S. revenues increased 11% to $4.77 billion primarily due to strong ARPU growth and the larger subscriber base. ARPU of $85.47 increased 6.4% due to programming package price increases, higher HD and DVR service fees, an extra week of revenues for the NFL SUNDAY TICKET package and higher advertising sales. Net additions of 100,000 were lower than a year ago primarily due to last years transition of free-to-air broadcasts from analog to digital as well as a tougher competitive environment. DIRECTV U.S. ended the quarter with 18.66 million subscribers, an increase of 3% over the 18.08 million subscribers reported on March 31, 2009.
TM
First quarter OPBDA increased 32% to $1.31 billion and operating profit more than doubled to $808 million primarily due to gross profit associated with higher revenue and lower subscriber acquisition costs related to the decline in gross subscriber additions, as well as lower upgrade and retention costs. Operating profit was also favorably impacted by the completion of amortization for a subscriber-related intangible asset.
DIRECTV Latin America Segment
DIRECTV owns approximately 74% of Sky Brazil, 41% of Sky Mexico and 100% of PanAmericana, which covers most of the remaining countries in the region. Sky Mexico, whose results are accounted for as an equity method investment and therefore are not consolidated by DIRECTV Latin America (DTVLA), had approximately 2.20 million subscribers as of March 31, 2010 bringing the total subscribers in the region to 7.01 million.
First Quarter Review
Revenues for DIRECTV Latin America increased 30% to $779 million in the quarter principally due to strong subscriber growth and a 9.5% increase in ARPU. DTVLAs first quarter net additions increased 49% to 221,000 subscribers primarily due to strong growth in Brazil, Colombia and Argentina. Gross additions increased 34% to an all-time record of 493,000 in the quarter largely due to increased demand for DVR, HD and pre-paid services, as well as more targeted customer promotions aimed at the middle-market segment. The increase in churn to 1.93% was mostly due to higher pre-paid churn in Venezuela. The increase in ARPU to $55.24 was mostly due to price increases, higher sales of HD and DVR services and favorable exchange rates in Brazil, partially offset by the devaluation in Venezuela.
DIRECTV Latin Americas first quarter 2010 OPBDA of $244 million was more than double last years results and operating profit more than tripled to $126 million primarily due to gross profit associated with higher revenue, as well as a larger first quarter 2009 charge in connection with the exchange of Venezuelan currency to U.S. dollars as a result of DTVLAs ongoing efforts to repatriate cash from Venezuela. Also impacting operating profit were higher depreciation expenses mostly due to the increase in set-top boxes deployed related to the higher gross subscriber additions attained over the last year.
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
A live webcast of DIRECTVs first quarter 2010 earnings call will be available on the companys website at . The webcast will begin at 2:00 p.m. ET, today May 6, 2010. Access to the earnings call is also available in the United States by dialing (877) 852-6575 and internationally by dialing (719) 325-4869. The conference ID number is 4566217. A replay of the call can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S. and 719-457-0820 internationally. The Replay pass code is 4566217. The replay will be available from 4:00 p.m. PT Thursday, May 6 through 9:59 p.m. PT Thursday, May 13 and will also be archived on our website at .
www.directv.com/investor
www.directv.com/investor
FOOTNOTES
(1) Operating profit before depreciation and amortization, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Please see each of DIRECTV and DIRECTV Holdings LLCs Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 for further discussion of operating profit before depreciation and amortization. Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin is calculated by dividing operating profit before depreciation and amortization by total revenues.
(2) Cash flow before interest and taxes, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with GAAP, is calculated by deducting amounts under the captions Cash paid for property and equipment, Cash paid for satellites, Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  subscriber acquisitions and Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  upgrade and retention from Net cash provided by operating activities from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and adding back net interest paid and Cash paid for income taxes. This financial measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of cash flows from operating activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP. DIRECTV and DIRECTV U.S. management use cash flow before interest and taxes to evaluate the cash generated by our current subscriber base, net of capital expenditures, and excluding the impact of interest and taxes, for the purpose of allocating resources to activities such as adding new subscribers, retaining and upgrading existing subscribers, for additional capital expenditures and as a measure of performance for incentive compensation purposes. DIRECTV and DIRECTV U.S. believe this measure is useful to investors, along with other GAAP measures (such as cash flows from operating and investing activities), to compare our operating performance to other communications, entertainment and media companies. We believe that investors also use current and projected cash flow before interest and taxes to determine the ability of our current and projected subscriber base to fund required and discretionary spending and to help determine the financial value of the company.
(3) Free cash flow, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with GAAP, is calculated by deducting amounts under the captions Cash paid for property and equipment, Cash paid for satellites, Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  subscriber acquisitions, and Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  upgrade and retention from Net cash provided by operating activities from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. This financial measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of cash flows from operating activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP. DIRECTV and DIRECTV U.S. management use free cash flow to evaluate the cash generated by our current subscriber base, net of capital expenditures, for the purpose of allocating resources to activities such as adding new subscribers, retaining and upgrading existing subscribers, for additional capital expenditures and as a measure of performance for incentive compensation purposes. DIRECTV and DIRECTV U.S. believe this measure is useful to investors, along with other GAAP measures (such as cash flows from operating and investing activities), to compare our operating performance to other communications, entertainment and media companies. We believe that investors also use current and projected free cash flow to determine the ability of our current and projected subscriber base to fund required and discretionary spending and to help determine the financial value of the company.
(4) DIRECTV Latin America subscriber data exclude subscribers of the Sky Mexico service. Gross and net subscriber additions as well as churn exclude the impact of the migration of approximately 3,000 subscribers in Central America to Sky Mexico in the first quarter of 2009. Cumulative subscriber totals include a reduction for the migration of these subscribers.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
NOTE: This release may include or incorporate by reference certain statements that we believe are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of various provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by use of statements that include phrases such as believe, expect, estimate, anticipate, intend, plan, project or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe our objectives, plans or goals also are forward-looking statements. All of these forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or from those expressed or implied by the relevant forward-looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: economic conditions; product demand and market acceptance; ability to simplify aspects of our business model, improve customer service, create new and desirable programming content and interactive features, and achieve anticipated economies of scale; government action; local political or economic developments in or affecting countries where we have operations, including political, economic and social uncertainties in many Latin American countries in which DTVLA operates; foreign currency exchange rates; currency exchange controls; ability to obtain export licenses; competition; the outcome of legal proceedings; ability to achieve cost reductions; ability of third parties to timely perform material contracts; ability to renew programming contracts under favorable terms; technological risk; limitations on access to distribution channels; the success and timeliness of satellite launches; in-orbit performance of satellites, including technical anomalies; loss of uninsured satellites; theft of satellite programming signals; and our ability to access capital to maintain our financial flexibility. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements.
DIRECTV (NASDAQ:DTV) is the worlds leading provider of digital television entertainment services. Through its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the United States, Brazil, Mexico and other countries in Latin America, DIRECTV provides digital television service to more than 18.6 million customers in the United States and over 7 million customers in Latin America. DIRECTV sports and entertainment properties include three regional sports networks (Northwest, Rocky Mountain and Pittsburgh) as well as a 65 percent ownership interest in Game Show Network. For more information on DIRECTV, visit directv.com.
CONTACT: DIRECTV Media Contact: Darris Gringeri, (212) 205-0882 Investor Relations: (310) 964-0808


