FILE:DTV/DTV-8K-20110310135508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)    
March 10, 2011
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
New Director
Effective March 10, 2011, the Board of Directors, based upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, elected David B. Dillon to serve as a Class III director whose term will expire on the date of the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders of the Company to be held April 28, 2011.  The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee has determined that Mr. Dillon qualifies as an independent director and as a Qualifying Director as those terms are defined in the Companys By-Laws.
Mr. Dillon is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Kroger Co. He was elected Chairman of the Board of Kroger in 2004, Chief Executive Officer in 2003, and President and Chief Operating Officer in 1995.   Mr. Dillon was elected Executive Vice President of Kroger in 1990 and President of Dillon Companies, Inc. in 1986.  He has over 35 years of experience in the consumer products business and also currently serves on the board of Convergys Corporation since March 2000.  
Mr. Dillon serves on the Board of Trustees for the University of Cincinnati Foundation, the Board of Trustees for the Urban League of Greater Cincinnati, the Board of Trustees for the University of Kansas Endowment, and the Board of Bethesda, Inc., a major medical center.  Mr. Dillon received his undergraduate degree from the University of Kansas in 1973, majoring in accounting and business administration. He earned his J.D. degree in 1976 from Southern Methodist University.
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Dillon dated March 10, 2011 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Mr. Dillon was identified for election to the Board through a search process implemented to fill the anticipated vacancies in DIRECTVs board.  The executive search firm, Heidrick & Stuggles International, Inc., has been retained by the Board to assist in identifying potential candidates to serve on the Board.
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01             Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DIRECTV announced that David Dillon has joined its Board of Directors, effective today.
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., March 10, 2011
Mr. Dillon is chairman and chief executive officer of the Kroger Co. and has more than 35 years of experience in the consumer products business.  He is a director of Convergys Corporation and serves on the Board of Trustees for the University of Cincinnati Foundation, the Urban League of Greater Cincinnati, the University of Kansas Endowment, and the Board of Bethesda, Inc., a major medical center.
Dave is a great addition to our Board, said Mike White, chairman, president and CEO of DIRECTV.  He leads an organization with sales of over $82 billion and 338,000 employees, in a fiercely competitive business with a sharp consumer focus. Dave has led Kroger through difficult economic times and has grown customer loyalty while pursuing a long-term program to reduce operating costs and leverage economies of scale.  His extensive leadership experience in a customer-focused industry and his commitment to the community will be of great value to the Board and to DIRECTV.
Mr. Dillon received his bachelors degree from the University of Kansas in 1973, majoring in accounting and business administration. He earned his J.D. degree in 1976 from Southern Methodist University.
:
About DIRECTV
DIRECTV (NASDAQ:DTV) delivers premium video service to more than 28 million subscribers worldwide. Through its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the United States, Brazil, Mexico and other countries in Latin America, DIRECTV provides digital television service to more than 19.2 million customers in the United States and more than 9 million customers in Latin America. DIRECTV sports and entertainment properties include three Regional Sports Networks (Northwest, Rocky Mountain and Pittsburgh) as well as a 65 percent interest in Game Show Network.


