FILE:DTV/DTV-8K-20110803131723.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)    
July 28, 2011
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Explanatory Note:
 
This current report on Form 8-K/A corrects certain typographical errors contained in a Form 8-K filed August 2, 2011, relating to disclosures made under Item 5.02, Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
ITEM 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
New Director
 
Effective July 28, 2011, the Board of Directors, based upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, elected Dixon R. Doll to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company.  Dr. Doll was also appointed to serve on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors.
 
Dr. Doll is a co-founder and general partner at DCM (formerly Doll Capital Management), an early-state global technology venture capital firm formed in 1996 with a focus on wireless infrastructure, mobile applications, e-commerce, communications services and Internet infrastructure.  Prior to founding DCM, Dr. Doll spent eight years at Accel Partners where he co-founded the global venture capital industrys first fund focused exclusively on telecommunications opportunities. From 1972 until 1980, Dr. Doll also served as a faculty member of the IBM Systems Research Institute.
 
In addition to his duties at DCM, Dr. Doll also serves as Chairman of the Board for Network Equipment Technologies, CENX, Inc., and Force10 Networks. In 2008 and 2009, he served as Chairman of the U.S. National Venture Capital Association.
 
Dr. Doll holds a doctorate and a Master of Science in Electrical Engineering from the University of Michigan, where he was a National Science Foundation Scholar, and also holds a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, cum laude, from Kansas State University.
Dr. Doll was identified for election to the Board through a search process implemented to fill the anticipated vacancies in DIRECTVs board.  The executive search firm, Heidrick & Stuggles International, Inc., has been retained by the Board to assist in identifying potential candidates to serve on the Board.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee has determined that Dr. Doll qualifies as an independent director as that term is defined in the Companys By-Laws.
 A copy of the press release announcing the election of Dr. Doll dated July 28, 2011 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01             Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
                Darris Gringeri
Contact:
DIRECTV
(212) 205-0882
DIRECTV (NASDAQ: DTV), one of the worlds leading providers of digital television entertainment services, announced that Dr. Dixon Doll has joined its Board of Directors, effective today.
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., July 28, 2011
Dr. Doll is a co-founder and general partner at DCM (formerly Doll Capital Management), an early-stage global technology venture capital firm formed in 1996 with a focus on wireless infrastructure, mobile applications, e-commerce, communications services and Internet infrastructure.  Prior ... to founding DCM, he spent eight years at Accel Partners, where he co-founded the global venture capital industrys first fund focused exclusively on telecommunications opportunities. From 1972-1980, Dr. Doll also served as a faculty member of the IBM Systems Research Institute.
In addition to his duties at DCM, Dr. Doll also serves as Chairman of the Board for Network Equipment Technologies, CENX, Inc., and Force10 Networks. In 2008-2009, he served as Chairman of the U.S. National Venture Capital Association.
For more than 35 years, Dr. Doll has expertly influenced and guided entrepreneurs, investors and executives and were thrilled to have him on our Board to contribute his vast amount of knowledge in the telecommunications world, said Mike White, chairman, president and CEO of DIRECTV.  His well-deserved reputation as a venture capital pioneer and telecom expert will nicely complement the array of talents of our other DIRECTV Board members and help the Company continue to expand.
 Dr. Doll holds a doctorate and a Master of Science in Electrical Engineering from the University of Michigan, where he was a National Science Foundation Scholar, and also holds a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, cum laude, from Kansas State University.
About DIRECTV
DIRECTV (NASDAQ: DTV) is one of the worlds leading providers of digital television entertainment services.  Through its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the United States, Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Venezuela, Colombia, and other countries in Latin America, DIRECTV provides digital television entertainment service to more than 19.4 million customers in the United States and more than 10 million customers in Latin America. DIRECTV sports and entertainment properties include three Regional Sports Networks (Northwest, Rocky Mountain and Pittsburgh) as well as a 60 percent interest in Game Show Network. For more information, visit directv.com.
 
 


