FILE:DTV/DTV-8K-20121102160359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)    
November 2, 2012
DIRECTV
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
Delaware
(State or Other Jurisdiction
of Incorporation)
 
(310) 964-5000
(
Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
o
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
At its meeting on November 2, 2012, the Board of Directors (Board) of DIRECTV (which is referred to as DIRECTV or the Company) approved employment arrangements with Mr. Michael D. White who will continue as DIRECTVs Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) after his 2010 employment agreement (2010 Employment Agreement) expires on January 1, 2013. Mr. Whites new employment arrangements are described below.
Summary of Cash and Equity Compensation
CEO Severance Plan
The Board has approved a CEO Severance Plan effective on January 1, 2013 in the form attached as Exhibit 10.2, the terms of which are summarized below.
Summary of the CEO Severance Plan and Stock Option Terms and Conditions
Restrictions for non-compete and non-solicit
While employed and for two years after leaving the company, the CEO will not compete with the Company or solicit employees to leave the Company. In consideration for complying with the post-employment restrictions following resignation, retirement, involuntary termination without cause or for Effective Termination and following the end of the 2-year post-employment restriction period, the Company will provide a cash payment equal to one years base salary plus target bonus (base salary and target bonus in effect at time of retirement). Eligibility for this payment may be cancelled at the time of retirement, upon notice. Upon failure to comply with the post-employment restrictions, the cash amount will not be paid and unvested equity awards are subject to forfeiture and cancellation.
Other Terms Related to Termination Following a Change in Control
Double-trigger structure
The CEO Severance Plan provides no compensation following a change in control as defined in the CEO Severance Plan, or CIC, unless a double trigger event has occurred, that is, both (i) the completion of a CIC transaction, and (ii) a termination of Mr. Whites employment.
No excise tax gross up
. There is no excise tax gross up payment under the CEO Severance Plan.
Potential reduction in payouts
Provide best net calculation of payouts such that parachute payments under IRC 280G, if any, would be reduced to the IRC 280G limit to avoid related excise taxes if this lesser amount would provide the better after-tax value as compared to a calculation without the reduction.
Further Information
Further information regarding factors considered in deliberations by the Board and the Committee is provided in Exhibit 99.1, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Reference is also made to: the 2010 Employment Agreement, which was previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K filed by DIRECTV with the SEC, on January 7, 2010, or the January 2010 8-K; the Executive Cash Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to Annex B to DIRECTVs Definitive Proxy Statement, filed with the SEC on April 21, 2010; the 2010 Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Annex A to DIRECTVs Definitive Proxy Statement, filed with the SEC on April 21, 2010); ; the DIRECTV Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, which was previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the January 2010 8-K; the form of 2012 Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement attached as Exhibit 10.2 hereto; the CEO Severance Plan attached as Exhibit 10.2; and the 2012 Proxy Statement. The descriptions and references to each of these documents are qualified in their entirety by reference to the applicable document.
A copy of the press release relating to the announcement, dated November 2, 2012, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 10.1
DIRECTV
             
2012 NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT
MICHAEL D. WHITE
 
THIS 2012 NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT
(
Agreement
), dated as of [November __, 2012] (
Effective Date
), is entered into between DIRECTV a Delaware corporation (
DIRECTV
), and Michael D. White (
Executive
).
 
WHEREAS
, at its meeting on [November __, 2012], the Compensation Committee of DIRECTVs Board of Directors (the 
Committee
) approved the grant to Executive of nonqualified stock options to purchase shares of DIRECTVs common stock, $.01 par value per share (the 
Common Stock
), upon the terms and conditions set forth herein and subject to the terms and conditions of the DIRECTV 2010 Stock Plan (as it may be amended from time to time, the 
Plan
); and
 
WHEREAS
, at its meeting on [November 2, 2012], the Board of Directors of DIRECTV (
Board
) approved the material terms and conditions of Executives continuing employment as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of DIRECTV, including the grant of non-qualified stock options; and
 
WHEREAS
, the Committee and the Board each has also approved the terms and conditions of a severance plan for Executive effective as of January 1, 2013 (such plan, as it may be amended from time to time, is referred to herein as the 
Severance Plan
); and
 
WHEREAS
, both the Committee and the Board authorized the Chairman of the Committee to execute this Agreement on behalf of DIRECTV, in accordance with the resolutions adopted by each of the Committee and the Board at their respective meetings as referenced above.
 
NOW, THEREFORE
, in consideration of the services rendered and to be rendered by Executive and the mutual promises made herein and the mutual benefits to be derived therefrom, DIRECTV and Executive agree as follows:
 
1.
 
Defined Terms
.  Any capitalized term used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Plan or the Severance Plan.
 
2.
 
Grant of Options
.  DIRECTV hereby grants to Executive, effective as of [November __, 2012] (the 
Grant Date
), the right and option to purchase, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, to the extent exercisable, all or any part of an aggregate of [TBD] shares of Common Stock at a price (
Grant Price
) of [$xx.xx] per share of Common Stock (which is the closing market price on the NASDAQ Global Select Market of a share of Common Stock on the date hereof), subject to the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan (the 
Option
).
 
3.
 
Vesting and Exercisability of Option
.  Provided Executive renders continuous active service as an employee of the Company (
Service
), the Option shall vest and become exercisable as to the total number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Option (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 8 herein or in accordance with Section 14 of the Plan), on December 31, 2015, subject to the applicable provisions of the Plan and this Agreement.  The Option may be exercised only to the extent it shall have vested and is exercisable, and, during Executives lifetime, only by Executive.  In no event may the Executive exercise the Option, in whole or in part, after the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date (the 
Expiration Date
).
1
56476 v2
(a)  
Cumulative Exercisability
.  To the extent Executive does not, at the time of a particular exercise, purchase all the shares of Common Stock that Executive may then purchase, Executive has the right cumulatively thereafter to purchase any of such shares of Common Stock not so purchased until the Expiration Date or, if applicable, the earlier termination of the Option.
 
(b)  
No Fractional Shares; Minimum Exercise
.  Fractional share interests shall be disregarded, but may be cumulated.  No fewer than 100 shares of Common Stock may be purchased at any one time, unless the number purchased is the total number at the time exercisable under the Option.
 
4.
 
Exercise of Option
.  To the extent vested and exercisable, the Option may be exercised by the delivery to DIRECTV of a written exercise notice stating the number of shares of Common Stock to be purchased pursuant to the Option accompanied by payment of the Grant Price multiplied by the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock to be purchased (such payment to be made in accordance with Section 5) and the payment or provision for any applicable employment or other taxes or withholding for taxes thereon (
Withholding Taxes
).  Subject to Section 7 below, such Option shall be deemed to be exercised upon receipt and approval by DIRECTV of such written exercise notice accompanied by the aggregate Grant Price and any other payments so required, as permitted pursuant to Section 5.
 
5.
 
Method of Payment of Option
.  Payment of the aggregate Grant Price shall be by any of the following, or a combination thereof, at the election of Executive:
 
(a)   in cash or by electronic funds transfer, or by check payable to the order of DIRECTV, in the full amount of the purchase price of the shares of Common Stock so purchased and the amount (if any) required to satisfy any applicable Withholding Taxes;
 
(b)   by delivery of shares of Common Stock that have been held by Executive for at least six months, in accordance with Section 7(e) of the Plan, subject to compliance with applicable law;
 
(c)   payment may be made in accordance with the cashless exercise program or net exercise program, if any, of DIRECTV in effect at the time of exercise; or
 
(d)   in a combination of payments under clauses (a), (b) and (c).
 
Other payment methods may be permitted only if expressly authorized by the Committee consistent with the terms of the Plan.
 
6.
 
Continuance of Employment Required
.  The vesting schedule requires continued Service through December 31, 2015 as a condition to the vesting of any shares of Common Stock underlying the Option and rights and benefits under this Agreement, except as otherwise provided in Section 7.  Partial service, even if substantial, during the vesting period will not entitle Executive to any proportionate vesting or avoid or mitigate a termination of rights and benefits upon or following a termination of employment or Service except as provided in Section 7 or 9 below or under the Plan.
 
2
56476 v2
7.
 
Effect of Termination of Employment on Vesting and Exercisability
.  The Option terminates on the date Executives Service with DIRECTV ends (the 
Termination Date
), except to the extent the following provisions apply with respect to vesting and exercisability of the Option after the Termination Date, but in no event may any portion of the Option be exercised after the Expiration Date:
(a)   If Executives Service terminates after December 31, 2013 and prior to December 31, 2015, as a result of his death, Disability or Retirement, then the total number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Option shall be considered vested and exercisable as of the Termination Date will be equal to the product of: (1) the fraction (but not greater than one (1)) determined by dividing the number of calendar months (whole or partial) of Executives continuous Service from January 1, 2013 to his Termination Date by 36, multiplied by (2) the total number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Option. The Option held by Executive after effect of this section shall be exercisable with respect to such vested number of shares, in whole or in part, by Executive (or Executives Personal Representative or Beneficiary, as the case may be) at any time on or prior to the Expiration Date, subject to Section 7(e). The Option with respect to all unvested shares shall terminate as of the Termination Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Executives employment terminates due to Retirement, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, accelerate vesting and exercisability of the Option with respect to any or all of the shares of Common Stock underlying this Option which have not otherwise become vested and exercisable under this Section 7(a).
(b) If Executives employment is terminated by the Company without Cause or Executive terminates his employment due to an Effective Termination prior to December 31, 2015, the Option shall be considered vested and exercisable with respect to all of the shares of Common Stock underlying this Option as of the Termination Date. The Option shall be exercisable as to all such vested shares, in whole or in part, by Executive at any time on or prior to the date that is three (3) calendar years after Executives Termination Date, provided that if such termination would also qualify as a Retirement, then the Option shall be exercisable at any time on or prior to the Expiration Date, subject in each case to Section 7(e). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Executives termination under this subsection (b) occurs in connection with or within two years following a Change in Control: (1) all such vested shares shall be exercisable, in whole or in part, by Executive at any time on or prior to the Expiration Date; and (2) Section 7(e) shall not apply. Whether Executives termination is in connection with or within two years following a Change in Control will be solely determined by the Committee.
(c) If Executives Service terminates on or after December 31, 2015 for any reason other than Cause, then the Option shall be exercisable, in whole or in part, by Executive at any time on or prior to the Expiration Date, subject to Section 7(e).
 
(d) If DIRECTV terminates Executives employment for Cause, any unexercised shares underlying the Option shall terminate as of the date of the action or inaction which constitutes Cause, as solely determined by the Committee.
(e) If, at any time after the Termination Date and during the applicable period specified in Article IV of the Severance Plan, Executive shall have breached any of the covenants set forth in such Article, any unexercised shares underlying the Option shall terminate as of the date of any such breach.
 
3
56476 v2
8.
 
Adjustments Upon Specified Events
.  As provided in Section 14 of the Plan, upon the occurrence of certain events relating to or affecting the Common Stock as contemplated by Section 14 of the Plan, the Committee shall, in such manner, to such extent (if any) and at such times as it deems appropriate and equitable in the circumstances, make adjustments in the number, amount and type of shares of Common Stock (or other securities or property) subject to the Option, the Grant Price and the securities deliverable upon exercise of the Option (or any combination thereof) or provide for a cash payment or the assumption, substitution or exchange of the Option or the shares or other securities subject to the Option, based upon the distribution or consideration payable to holders of Common Stock generally.  All rights of Executive hereunder are subject to such adjustments and other provisions of the Plan.
 
9.
 
Possible Early Termination of Award
.  As permitted by Section 14 of the Plan, and without limiting the authority of the Committee under any of the provisions of Section 14 of the Plan, the Committee retains the right to terminate any portion or all of the Option, to the extent such Option has not vested, upon a dissolution of DIRECTV or a reorganization event or transaction in which DIRECTV does not survive (or does not survive as a public company in respect of its outstanding Common Stock).  This Section 9 is not intended to prevent future vesting (including provision for future vesting) if the Option (or a substituted Award) remains outstanding following a transaction described in Section 14 of the Plan.
 
10.
 
Leaves of Absence
.  Absence from work caused by authorized sick leave or other leave approved in writing by DIRECTV or the Committee shall not be considered a termination of employment by DIRECTV for purposes of Section 7, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
 
11.
 
No Limitations on Acceleration
. The Severance Plan, in particular Article XI, Section F thereof, contains express provisions regarding Section 280G and/or 4999 of the Code of the type described in Section 14(f) of the Plan. Accordingly, the limitations on acceleration set forth in Section 14(f) of the Plan shall not apply to this Award.  A reduction, if any, to this Award or other effect related to Section 280G and/or Section 4999 shall be governed by the Severance Agreement.
 
12.
 
Associated Stock Rights
.  Neither Executive nor any other person entitled to exercise the Option shall have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of DIRECTV as to any shares of Common Stock subject to the Option until the issuance and delivery to him or such other person of a certificate (or book entry in lieu thereof) evidencing the shares of Common Stock registered in his or such other persons name.  No adjustment will be made for dividends or other rights as a stockholder as to which the record date is prior to such date of delivery, except as otherwise provided in Section 8.
 
13.
 
No Guarantee of Continued Service
.  Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan constitutes an employment or service commitment by DIRECTV, confers upon Executive any right to remain employed by DIRECTV, interferes in any way with the right of DIRECTV at any time to terminate such employment or affects the right of DIRECTV to increase or decrease Executives other compensation or benefits.   Nothing in this Section 13, however, is intended to adversely affect any independent contractual right of Executive under the Severance Plan or any other agreement between DIRECTV and Executive without his consent thereto.
 
14.
 
Non-Transferability of Option
.  The Option and any other rights of Executive under this Agreement or the Plan are nontransferable except as provided in Section 15(i) of the Plan.
 
15.
 
Notices
.  Any notice to be given under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed: to DIRECTV at its office located at 2230 East Imperial Highway, El Segundo, California
4
56476 v2
90245, to the attention of the Corporate Secretary; and to Executive at the address on file with DIRECTV, or at such other address as either party may hereafter designate in writing to the other.
16.
 
Taxes
. DIRECTV may, in its discretion, take action to satisfy any of Executives tax obligations related to the Option, including, but not limited to, withholding from Executives wages or other cash compensation, withholding shares that otherwise would be issued to Executive on exercise of the Option, or requiring Executive to satisfy such liability by other means as approved by DIRECTV.
General information regarding taxation related to Options is provided in the Plan Prospectus. Please note, however, that any taxes or withholding related to Options, or any other Award under the Plan, are the ultimate responsibility of Executive. DIRECTV, the members of the Board of Directors or the Committee shall not be liable to Executive or other person for any adverse tax consequences realized by Executive relating to the grant, vesting or exercise of the Option hereunder or any tax consequences relating to the later sale of shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to an exercise of the Option.
DIRECTV has made no representations to Executive with respect to the tax consequences of any Award or transactions contemplated herein. Nothing stated herein is intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of avoiding taxpayer penalties.
17.
 
Effect of Agreement
.  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of DIRECTV, except to the extent the Committee determines otherwise.
 
18.
 
Entire Agreement; Governing Law
.  The Plan is incorporated herein and made a part hereof by this reference.  Subject to Section 20 below, the Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of DIRECTV and Executive with respect to the subject matter hereof.  The construction, interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement and the Option shall be governed by the internal substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of the State of Delaware.
 
19.
 
Plan
.  The Option and all rights of Executive with respect thereto are subject to, and Executive agrees to be bound by, all of the terms and conditions of the provisions of the Plan, as amended or supplemented in accordance with the Plan. Executive acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Plan and agrees to be bound by the terms thereof as so amended or supplemented.  Unless otherwise expressly provided in other Sections of this Agreement, provisions of the Plan that confer discretionary authority on the Committee do not (and shall not be deemed to) create any rights in Executive unless such rights are expressly set forth herein or are otherwise in the sole discretion of the Committee specifically so conferred by appropriate action of the Committee under the Plan after the date hereof.
 
20.
 
Severance Plan
.  If any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with any provision of the Severance Plan, the provisions of the Severance Plan shall control.
 
21.
 
Amendment
.  The terms of this Agreement may be amended only by an agreement in writing executed by DIRECTV and Executive. DIRECTV may amend or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason, however, such amendment or termination shall not impair the rights or obligations of the parties under the Option without Executives consent, unless such modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule.
 
22.
 
Counterparts
.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute on and the same instrument.
5
56476 v2
 
23.
 
Section Headings
.  The Section headings of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to alter or affect any provision hereof.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, DIRECTV has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by the Chairman of its Compensation Committee and Executive has hereunto set his hand as of the date and year first written above.
 
 
6
56476 v2

Exhibit 10.2
DIRECTV
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SEVERANCE PLAN
DIRECTV, a Delaware corporation (DIRECTV or the Company), has adopted the DIRECTV Chief Executive Officer Severance Plan (the Plan) for the benefit of Michael D. White (Executive or Participant) on the terms and conditions hereinafter stated.
The Plan shall be effective on the Effective Date, which shall be January 1, 2013. This Plan represents exclusive severance benefits provided to Participant and supersedes any Other Severance Agreements.
To the extent applicable, it is intended that portions of this Plan either comply with or be exempt from the provisions of Code Section 409A. This Plan shall be administered in a manner consistent with this intent and any provision that would cause this Plan to fail to comply with or be exempt from Code Section 409A shall have no force and effect.
(1) a material reduction in either Participants aggregate annual cash compensation opportunity (Base Salary plus bonus opportunity) or his aggregate total direct compensation opportunity (Base Salary, bonus opportunity, plus equity compensation opportunity, determined as provided below); however, a material reduction, as set forth above, will not have occurred if such reduction is made
56749 v2
with respect to all named executive officers as shown in the Companys most recent proxy statement who are continuing as executive officers at the time;
(2) the Companys (i) termination of the Plan in whole or in part; or (ii) amendment of the Plan resulting in a material adverse change in the rights or benefits of Participant; provided, further, that an Effective Termination resulting under this subsection (2) shall not be effective unless and until the effective date of such adverse termination or amendment, and provided, however, that (x) neither occurrence under (i) nor (ii) shall be an Effective Termination if (I) Participant receives at least twelve (12) months advance notice of the date of such termination or amendment, and (II) each of the Executive Severance Plan and any other successor or replacement plan providing benefits similar to this Plan and covering any named executive officer of the Company is terminated or amended in the same manner; and (y) in no event shall any such notice under (x) be effective upon any such amendment, partial termination or complete termination of the Plan made in violation of the second sentence of Article VI (relating to a Change in Control);
(3) the material reduction of Participants responsibilities, titles, powers or duties, or the assignment of duties inconsistent with Participants positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; or
(4) a transfer of Participants principal place of employment by more than 50 miles, provided such transfer lengthens Participants commute by at least 10 miles one-way.
Provided, however,
that
any of the events described in clauses (1) - (4) above shall constitute an Effective Termination, subject to the terms above, only if the Company fails to cure such event within 30 days after receipt from Participant of written notice of the event which constitutes an Effective Termination; and
provided further
, that Participant shall cease to have a right to terminate due to Effective Termination on the 60
th
day following the later of the occurrence of the event (or the effective date in the case of subsection (2) above) or Participants knowledge thereof, unless Participant has given the Company notice thereof prior to such date.
For purposes of determining the Participants aggregate total direct compensation opportunity under subsection (1) above, for each of the calendar years 2013, 2014 and 2015, one-third of the aggregate value of the 2012 Option Award, as reported in the Companys proxy statement for the 2013 annual stockholders meeting, shall be added to the value of the equity compensation awarded Participant by the Compensation Committee for each such calendar year and none of such aggregate value shall be included in Participants aggregate equity compensation opportunity for the 2012 fiscal year.
2
56749 v2
3
56749 v2
4
56749 v2
following: (1) Participants bonus for the year in which Participants termination occurred, pro-rated for the months of service (including both partial and whole months) up to and including the month of termination and based on actual performance for the year, payable concurrently with bonus payments to other employees under the Executive Officer Cash Bonus Plan, which is subject to Company performance and the other terms and conditions of the applicable bonus awards; provided however that Participants termination was during the last six months of the calendar year; (2) Participants equity compensation pursuant to any applicable outstanding DIRECTV equity awards issued to Participant; (3) any additional benefits in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable plans and programs of the Company.
In addition to any severance benefits provided to Participant under this Plan, the Company shall pay Participant an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the sum of his Base Salary and Target Bonus, measured as of the date of such termination of employment, if: (A) Participants employment with the Company terminates pursuant to Article II, Paragraph (C), (D) or (F), above; and (B) for a period of two years after such termination, Participant does not, directly or indirectly, (1) induce or attempt to induce any employee, whether a director, manager, supervisor or non-managerial employee, of the Company to render services to any other person, firm or corporation, or (2) engage in any business which competes with the Company and does not directly or indirectly own, manage, operate, join, control or participate in the ownership, management, operation or control of, or be employed by, or connected in any manner with any corporation, firm or business that is so engaged. For purposes of clarification, the foregoing does not prohibit Participant from owning less than five percent (5%) of the outstanding common stock of any company whose shares are publicly traded. Notwithstanding the above, the Compensation Committee may cancel Participants eligibility for any forbearance payment under this Article III by providing Participant notice within twenty (20) business days of Participants termination date. In addition to the above, if Participant is subject to this Article III and the Compensation Committee determines that he has violated (B) above, all of Participants undistributed restricted stock units and unvested stock options shall terminate at the date on which such violation occurred, as determined by the Compensation Committee.
5
56749 v2
termination forbearance payment under Article III above he (or his successors in interest in the event of his death following termination of employment) will receive one lump sum to be paid within the sixty (60) day period immediately following the second anniversary of the Participants termination of employment with the Company,
provided that
by such date the Participant has executed and returned to the Company a general release of claims in the form established by the Company and any applicable revocation period for such release has expired. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for the avoidance of doubt, where the applicable sixty (60) day period for release consideration and revocation could result in a payment under this Plan to be made in either of two calendar years, such payment shall be made in the second calendar year.
6
56749 v2
DIRECTV is aware that upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Board of Directors or a shareholder of DIRECTV or of any successor corporation might then cause or attempt to cause DIRECTV or such successor to refuse to comply with its obligations under the Plan and might cause or attempt to cause DIRECTV to institute, or may institute arbitration seeking to deny Participant the benefits intended under the Plan. In these circumstances, the purpose of the Plan could be frustrated. Accordingly, if, following a Change in Control, DIRECTV or any successor corporation has failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Plan or any agreement thereunder, or, if DIRECTV or any other person takes any action to declare the Plan void or unenforceable or institutes any arbitration or other legal action designed to deny, diminish or to recover from Participant the benefits intended to be provided, then DIRECTV irrevocably authorizes such Participant to retain counsel of his choice at the expense of DIRECTV or its successor in interest to represent such Participant in connection with the initiation or defense of any arbitration or other legal action, whether by or against DIRECTV or its successor in interest, in any jurisdiction. Such fees, if any, will be advanced by DIRECTV to such Participant subject to reimbursement if Participant does not prevail in such action.
Although the Plan is designed to provide severance and other benefits to Participant as provided herein, the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee may amend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part at any time subject to Paragraph B of Article I. However, no adverse amendment or termination of the Plan with respect to Participant shall be effective during the Restriction Period without his express written consent.
Except as specifically referenced herein, the benefits under this Plan replace and supersede any severance benefits or non-competition/forbearance agreements previously established for the Participant, whether set forth in an employment agreement, severance arrangement or otherwise, including, without limitation, any Other Severance Arrangements.
7
56749 v2
8
56749 v2
9
56749 v2
interpretation, construction or determination made in connection with this Plan (or any payment made under this Plan). Each Affected Person shall be indemnified and held harmless by DIRECTV against and from any loss, cost, liability or expense (including attorneys' fees) that may be imposed upon or incurred by such Affected Person in connection with or resulting from any action, suit or proceeding to which such Affected Person may be a party or in which such Affected Person may be involved by reason of any action taken or omitted to be taken under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by such Affected Person, with the Companys approval, in settlement thereof, or paid by such Affected Person in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against such Affected Person; provided that, the Company shall have the right, at its own expense, to assume and defend any such action, suit or proceeding and, once the Company gives notice of its intent to assume the defense, the Company shall have sole control over such defense with counsel of the Company's choice. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be available to an Affected Person to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction in a final judgment or other final adjudication, in either case, not subject to further appeal, determines that the acts or omissions of such Affected Person giving rise to the indemnification claim resulted from such Affected Person's bad faith, fraud or willful wrongful act or omission. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which Affected Persons may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or by-laws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any other power that the Company may have to indemnify such person or hold them harmless.
10
56749 v2
conclusive and binding upon Participant and the Company for all purposes. For purposes of making the calculations required by this Paragraph F, the Accountants may make reasonable assumptions and approximations concerning applicable taxes and may rely on reasonable, good faith interpretations concerning the application of Code Sections 280G and 4999. The Company and Participant agree to furnish to the Accountants such information and documents as the Accountants may reasonably request in order to make a determination under this provision. The Company will bear all costs the Accountants may reasonably incur in connection with any calculations contemplated by this provision. Any reduction in payments and/or benefits required by this provision shall occur in the following order: (1) reduction of cash payments, beginning with payments scheduled to occur soonest; (2) reduction of vesting acceleration of equity awards (in reverse order of the date of the grant); and (3) reduction of other benefits paid or provided to Participant.
11
56749 v2
deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Plan or any provision thereof.
12
56749 v2
AGREEMENT TO DIRECTV
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SEVERANCE PLAN
DIRECTV, a Delaware corporation (DIRECTV), has adopted the DIRECTV Chief Executive Officer Severance Plan (the Plan) to provide certain benefits for me. In connection with DIRECTVs adoption of the Plan, I hereby agree to the terms and conditions of the Plan. I understand that pursuant to my agreement to be covered under the Plan, as indicated by my signature below, the terms of the Plan will exclusively govern all subject matter addressed by the Plan and I understand that the Plan supersedes and replaces, as applicable, any and all agreements (including any prior employment agreement), plans, policies, guidelines or other arrangements, including Other Severance Arrangements (as defined in the Executive Severance Plan), with respect to the subject matter covered under the Plan, from and after the Effective Date.
Dated: ____________________
PARTICIPANT
_____________________________
Michael D. White

Exhibit 99.1
Establishing the CEOs New Employment Arrangements
During 2012 and continuing through its meeting on November 2, 2012, the Board of Directors and Mr. White agreed that both parties were committed to Mr. White continuing as DIRECTVs Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. The Compensation Committee of the Board (Committee) met and considered key compensation and governance issues before developing the CEOs employment arrangements. The Committees primary objective was to continue the strong alignment of the CEOs compensation with Company performance and shareholder interests.
During this period, the Committee evaluated alternative approaches against its compensation philosophy, sought the views of other Board members, and discussed objective analyses and points of view from its independent advisors for compensation and legal counsel. Among the reviews were analyses of pay levels and compensation arrangements of CEOs in our benchmark group of companies in the media, telecommunications and multi-channel video distribution industries and separately in general industry. The Committee also reviewed reports issued by governance advisors on the structure and alignment of our pay programs with shareholder interests, particularly the CEOs pay.
CEO Performance
The Committee considered Mr. Whites past performance and his commitment to continue as CEO as the basis for the framework developed for his future compensation. During Mr. Whites nearly 3-year tenure as CEO, the Companys stock price has increased 54%. In comparison, over the same period, the S&P 500 Index increased 27%.
Compensation Philosophy
The Committee designed the employment and compensation arrangements to be consistent with our compensation philosophy to retain top-performing executives, pay for performance, balance short-term and long-term goals and risk-to-reward relationships that encourage increasing long-term shareholder value, and align with shareholders interests.
No Employment Contract
The Committee had previously decided to phase out employment contracts among the top executives, even though employment contracts are frequently found in the media and entertainment sector. Mr. White, who had proposed the phase out of employment contracts, also agreed to forego a new contract and will serve at the Boards discretion when his existing contract lapses on January 1, 2013.
New Compensation Arrangements
At the end of its discussions, the Committee determined that a combination of a base salary increase to the current market average, continued performance-based annual bonuses, annual performance-based equity awards (a change from the single three-year equity awards to the Chief Executive Officer in 2004, 2007 and 2010), continued annual reviews of performance and total compensation, and a CEO Severance Plan would meet its objectives.
As part of the new compensation arrangements, Whites base salary will increase to $1.7 million in 2013, which is about average among CEOs in our benchmark group of media, telecommunications and multi-channel video distribution industries. His annual performance bonus remains targeted at 200% of base salary (unchanged since 2010). This bonus will be based on achieving Company and individual performance goals set by the Committee and the Board each year, consistent with the bonus program for other senior executives.
The Committee intends that a large proportion of Mr. Whites pay will continue to be in the form of equity awards to continue to align his compensation with shareholder interests. Consequently, the Board approved a $12 million stock option award effective in November 2012, which is scheduled to vest on December 31, 2015, after three years of continued service.
Annual Equity Awards
In addition to the initial option award described above, the Committee presently expects to provide annual equity awards, rather than a single equity grant for a three-year period as was done under Mr. Whites 2010 Employment Agreement. When determining the target values of potential future equity awards, the Committee presently expects that it will take into account the annualized value of the November 2012 stock option award. Consistent with the annual equity awards to other senior executives, the Committee presently expects to allocate the value of these future awards as follows: (i) 75% of the equity value in performance-based stock units; and (ii) 25% of the equity value in stock options. The Committee may alter this allocation ratio based on the annual pay evaluation described above. Further, the Committee reserves the discretion to issue equity awards to the CEO with terms and conditions that may differ from other executives awards.
The Committee presently expects, beginning in 2013, to award RSUs to the CEO with terms and conditions similar to those of the other senior executives. RSUs awarded to other senior executives are for a three-year forward-looking performance period (for example, RSUs awarded in 2012 are for the 2012-2014 performance period). The RSUs are payable at the end of the 3-year performance period. The Committee sets the terms of the RSUs including performance measures and maximum share payouts. At the end of each 3-year performance period, the number of RSUs actually converted to shares is subject to increase or decrease based on the Companys performance compared to the performance measures.
The Committee presently expects, beginning in 2013, to award stock options to the CEO with terms and conditions similar to those of the other senior executives. Option awards to the other senior executives vest and become exercisable in equal increments annually over 3 years and expire after ten years.
Exhibit 99.1
Annual Performance and Pay Reviews
The Committee will continue to review Mr. Whites pay each year, using the same pay evaluation process it uses for the Companys other senior executives. This annual review process includes: (i) independent analysis of pay among our benchmark peer companies; (ii) internal pay comparisons; (iii) company performance; and (iv) individual performance. It is intended that a high proportion of Mr. Whites pay will continue to be performance-based and payable in shares of common stock, which aligns his compensation with shareholder interests. Consequently, the Company does not anticipate any material future change in Mr. Whites annual cash compensation opportunity (base salary and target annual performance bonus), unless competitive market pay levels indicate otherwise.
New Severance Arrangements
Mr. White will participate in a severance plan that is generally consistent with the Executive Severance Plan announced earlier this year for other senior executives.

Exhibit 99.2
                            
    
Mike White to Continue as DIRECTV Chief Executive Officer
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., Nov. 2, 2012 
The DIRECTV (NASDAQ: DTV) Board of Directors announced today that Michael D. White has agreed to continue as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer following the end of his current employment agreement, which expires on Jan. 1, 2013.
During his three-year tenure as CEO, White has led DIRECTV to record performance levels and has kept the company positioned as the top video entertainment choice in the U.S. and across Latin America. Over the same period, DIRECTVs stock price has increased 54 percent, compared to the 27 percent growth in the S&P 500 Index over the same period.
The Board is pleased to retain Mike as CEO, said Neil R. Austrian, lead independent director of the Board. Mike has set a strategic direction to continue to increase our value to our customers, strengthen our relationships with the communities that we serve and has led the steady growth of the company during tough economic times. With his top-notch executive team, hes set the tone for collaboration and innovation across the company, and kept us on a course to continue serving the long-term interests of shareholders.
Im grateful for the opportunity to continue to lead DIRECTV and its creative, talented and dedicated employees at this exciting and challenging time, said White. I remain fully committed to continue increasing value for our shareholders by providing the best video experience for all of our customers. I want to thank DIRECTVs Board, the management team and all our employees for their support.
-more-
Exhibit 99.2
Mike White Continues as DIRECTV CEO
Page 2
DIRECTV continues to lead the industry in growth and profitability by offering a wide array of advanced products and entertainment services to its 33 million customers across the Americas. In the U.S., DIRECTV is transforming the entertainment experience for its customers with innovative HDDVR technology, connecting every TV in the home, and delivering more programming anywhere, anytime. In Latin America, DIRECTVs premium brand, unique products and services and continental broadcast footprint have firmly established its competitive advantage in the region and fueled its record-setting growth.
About DIRECTV:
DIRECTV (NASDAQ: DTV) is one of the worlds leading providers of digital television entertainment services delivering a premium video experience through state-of-the-art technology, unmatched programming and industry leading customer service to 33 million customers in the U.S. and Latin America. In the U.S., DIRECTV offers its 19.9 million customers access to more than 170 HD channels and Dolby-Digital 5.1 theater-quality sound, access to exclusive sports programming such as NFL SUNDAY TICKET, Emmy- award winning technology and higher customer satisfaction than the leading cable companies for 11 years running. DIRECTV Latin America, through its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Venezuela, Colombia, and other Latin American countries, leads the pay-TV category in technology, programming and service, delivering an unrivaled digital television experience to more than 13.6 million customers. DIRECTV sports and entertainment properties include three Regional Sports Networks (Northwest, Rocky Mountain and Pittsburgh) as well as a 60 percent interest in Game Show Network. For the most up-to-date information on DIRECTV, please visit www.directv.com.
Further details regarding Whites employment arrangements will be included in a Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
###


