FILE:DTV/DTV-8K-20120127171256.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)    
January 25, 2012
DIRECTV
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
Delaware
(State or Other Jurisdiction
of Incorporation)
(310) 964-5000
(
Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
o
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Background
On January 25, 2012, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of DIRECTV adopted the DIRECTV Executive Severance Plan, or the Plan. The primary purposes of the Plan are to replace severance and non-compete arrangements previously included in employment agreements with certain executive officers of DIRECTV or its subsidiaries or affiliates, which are collectively referred to as the Company, and to clarify the arrangements which would apply for such executives in the event of a Change in Control, as defined in the Plan. In this connection, beginning in 2004 at the time the Company became affiliated with News Corporation, the Company has entered into employment agreements with certain executive officers of DIRECTV or other members of senior management of the Company. Such employment agreements with the following four executive officers of DIRECTV expired at December 31, 2011: Bruce Churchill, President of DIRECTV Latin America, Pat Doyle, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Larry Hunter, Executive Vice President and General Counsel, and Romulo Pontual, Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. During 2011, the Compensation Committee, in consultation with DIRECTVs Chief Executive Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer and General Counsel, and based on advice from the independent compensation consultant and independent counsel retained by the Compensation Committee, evaluated the desirability of continuing to maintain employment agreements. Based on that evaluation, the Compensation Committee determined that DIRECTV should generally allow existing employment agreements to expire and to establish the Plan as an alternative arrangement governing severance and non-compete provisions otherwise governed by such employment agreements.
The remaining employment agreements currently in effect with other executives and severance arrangements with those executives will continue to be governed by such agreements and not by the Plan. While it is currently the intent of the Company not to enter into new employment agreements or extend existing agreements, decisions regarding any such agreements, and eligibility for the Plan, will be made on a case-by-case basis.
A summary of the Plan is provided below and the Plan is attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit 10.1. This description and the summary are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Plan. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined shall have the meaning provided in the Plan.
Plan Summary
The Plan has been adopted to provide severance benefits to certain senior executives of the Company and is intended to be a "welfare benefit plan" within the meaning of ERISA. Participation in the Plan is limited to those senior executives, each a Participant, who are designated by the Chief Executive Officer of DIRECTV or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors in the case of elected officers. To become a Participant, designated executives must execute Exhibit A to the Plan. In a few particular cases, Exhibit A may supplement the definition of Effective Termination to include a material adverse change in the executives reporting relationship or a relocation of place of employment outside the New York City metropolitan area.
The Plan represents the exclusive severance benefits provided to Participants by the Company and Participants shall not be eligible for any other Company severance benefits.
With limited exceptions, the Chief Executive Officer and the Compensation Committee, in the case of elected officers, may remove any Participant from participation in the Plan for the succeeding year by written notice delivered to the Participant no later than the October 31 immediately preceding the first calendar year for which participation shall cease.
Severance Payments
The Plan provides the following benefits in addition to payments required by law:
Disability, the Participant shall be entitled to the payment of (1) the Participants Target Bonus for the year in which the Participants termination occurred, pro-rated for the months of service up to and including the month of termination, and (2) monthly reimbursement of certain incurred medical premiums.
Forbearance Payments
In addition to any severance benefits, the Company shall pay a Participant an amount equal to the sum of his or her Base Salary and Target Bonus, measured as of the date of such termination of employment, if: (1) the Participants employment with the Company is terminated without Cause, by Effective Termination, or if the Participant voluntarily terminates employment, and (2) for a period of one year after such termination the Participant complies with certain non-solicitation and non-compete requirements. However, in the case of a voluntary termination of employment due to resignation or retirement, the Chief Executive Officer (with the Compensation Committees approval with respect to a Participant who is an elected officer) may cancel the Participants eligibility for this payment within twenty (20) business days of the Companys receipt of the Participants notice of resignation or retirement.
Additional Terms
To receive any benefits or forbearance payments, a Participant must execute a general release of claims and any applicable revocation period must have expired.
Payments under the Plan will be subject to all required taxes and are not deemed compensation for purposes of DIRECTV retirement plans, savings plans, and incentive plans. The Plan includes provisions for adjustment to the timing of payments to minimize accelerated or additional tax pursuant to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
The Plan also provides for DIRECTV to pay the costs of counsel retained by a Participant to enforce his or her rights under the Plan if DIRECTV or a successor refuses to comply with its obligations under the Plan following a Change in Control. Such fees, if any, will be advanced by DIRECTV to the Participant subject to reimbursement if the Participant does not prevail in such action.
The Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee may amend or terminate the Plan in whole or part at any time. However, in certain circumstances, an amendment or termination of the Plan may provide a basis for a claim of Effective Termination. In addition, no adverse amendment or termination of the Plan with respect to any Participant, without his or her
express written consent, may be effective during the two-year period immediately following a Change in Control or prior to a Change in Control if adopted in connection with such Change in Control.
Except as specifically provided, the benefits under the Plan replace and supersede any severance benefits, vesting acceleration, or non-competition/forbearance agreements previously established for any Participant, whether set forth in an employment agreement, severance arrangement or otherwise.
The Plan also establishes a process for claims made under the Plan and provides for binding arbitration of any disputes under the Plan.
Amounts payable under the Plan shall be payable from the general assets of the Company and no special or separate reserve, fund or deposit shall be made to assure payment of such amounts. No Participant, beneficiary or other person shall have any right, title or interest in any fund or in any specific asset of the Company by reason of participation in the Plan.
The Plan does not include any tax gross-up or other tax indemnity relating to payments made to Participants under the Plan in the event of a Change in Control or otherwise. The Plan also does not provide that any Participant is entitled to benefits under the Plan merely on account of the occurrence of a Change in Control, but instead requires that a Participant be terminated without Cause by the Company or have an Effective Termination because of actions taken by the Company as a required condition to receive any benefits under the Plan. The Compensation Committee believes that requiring such a double trigger to receive benefits is fair to the Participants but protective of the Company and its shareholders.
ITEM 9.01             Financial Statements and Exhibits
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 10.1
DIRECTV
EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN DOCUMENT
AND
SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION
DIRECTV, a Delaware corporation (DIRECTV), has adopted the DIRECTV Executive Severance Plan and Summary Plan Description (the Plan) for the benefit of certain Participant employees of DIRECTV and its subsidiaries and affiliates (hereinafter referred to as the Company or DTV) as well as any successor company to DIRECTV, on the terms and conditions hereinafter stated. Participation in this Plan is generally intended to be limited to those executive employees designated as eligible for the Plan by either the Compensation Committee or the Chief Executive Officer.
The Plan shall be effective on the Effective Date. This Plan supersedes, solely for the Participant, any prior severance plans, policies, guidelines, arrangements, agreements, letters and/or other communication, whether formal or informal, written or oral sponsored by the Company and/or entered into by any representative of the Company (collectively, all of those Other Severance Arrangements). This Plan represents exclusive severance benefits provided to Participants and such individuals shall not be eligible for any other benefits provided in Other Severance Arrangements.
The Plan is not intended to be an "employee pension benefit plan" or "pension plan" within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA. Rather, this Plan is intended to be a "welfare benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA and to meet the descriptive requirements of a plan constituting a "severance pay plan" within the meaning of regulations published by the Secretary of Labor at Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, Section 2510.3-2(b). Accordingly, any benefits paid by the Plan are not deferred compensation for purposes of ERISA and no Participant shall have a vested right to such benefits. To the extent applicable, it is intended that portions of this Plan either comply with or be exempt from the provisions of Code Section 409A. This Plan shall be administered in a manner consistent with this intent and any provision that would cause this Plan to fail to either constitute a welfare benefit plan under ERISA or comply with or be exempt from Code Section 409A, as the case may be, shall have no force and effect.
An employee of the Company shall be a Participant in the Plan following the employees designation as a Participant by the Compensation Committee or the Chief Executive Officer;
provided that
(A) as a condition of participation in the Plan, the Participant must execute and submit the acknowledgment and agreement to the terms of the Plan substantially as set forth in Exhibit A hereto, thereby agreeing to be bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, except as set forth in such acknowledgment and agreement; and (B) the Compensation Committee must consent to the participation of elected officers of the Company to the extent designated by the Chief Executive Officer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and except within the two (2) years following a Change in Control, a Participant shall cease to participate in the Plan following written notice delivered to the Participant of the Chief Executive Officers determination (as approved by the Compensation Committee with respect to elected officers) that such Participant shall cease to be a Participant for the succeeding calendar year, provided that such notice must be delivered no later than the October 31 immediately preceding the first calendar year for which participation shall cease.
(12) months after the Participants termination; and (b) the date the Participant and his or her eligible dependents become ineligible for COBRA. For purposes of clarification, reimbursement for dental and vision coverage is not included in the Plan.
compensation or benefits shall be payable except as required by applicable law or specifically provided under the terms and conditions of the applicable plans and programs of the Company.
In addition to any severance benefits provided to a Participant under this Plan, the Company shall pay a Participant an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the sum of his or her Base Salary and Target Bonus, measured as of the date of such termination of employment, if: (A) the Participants employment with the Company terminates pursuant to Article III, Paragraph (C) or (D) above; and (B) for a period of one year after such termination such Participant does not, directly or indirectly, (1) induce or attempt to induce any employee, whether a director, manager, supervisor or non-managerial employee, of the Company to render services to any other person, firm or corporation, or (2) engage in any business which competes with the Company and does not directly or indirectly own, manage, operate, join, control or participate in the ownership, management, operation or control of, or be employed by, or connected in any manner with any corporation, firm or business that is so engaged. For purposes of clarification, the foregoing does not prohibit a Participant from owning less than five percent (5%) of the outstanding common stock of any company whose shares are publicly traded. Notwithstanding the above, if the Participants employment with the Company terminates pursuant to Article III, Paragraph (D) above, the Chief Executive Officer (with the Compensation Committees approval with respect to a Participant who is an elected officer) may cancel such Participants eligibility for any forbearance payment under this Article IV by providing such Participant notice within twenty (20) business days of the Companys receipt of the Participants notice of resignation/retirement.
shall be made in the second calendar year.
DIRECTV is aware that upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Board of Directors or a shareholder of DIRECTV or of any successor corporation might then cause or attempt to cause DIRECTV or such successor to refuse to comply with its obligations under the Plan and might cause or attempt to cause DIRECTV to institute, or may institute arbitration seeking to deny Participants the benefits intended under the Plan. In these circumstances, the purpose of the Plan could be frustrated. Accordingly, if, following a Change in Control, DIRECTV or any successor corporation has failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Plan or any agreement thereunder, or, if DIRECTV or any other person takes any action to declare the Plan void or
unenforceable or institutes any arbitration or other legal action designed to deny, diminish or to recover from any Participant the benefits intended to be provided, then DIRECTV irrevocably authorizes such Participant, after exhaustion of the claims procedures under Article IX herein, to retain counsel of his or her choice at the expense of DIRECTV or its successor in interest to represent such Participant in connection with the initiation or defense of any arbitration or other legal action, whether by or against DIRECTV or its successor in interest, in any jurisdiction. Such fees, if any, will be advanced by DIRECTV to such Participant subject to reimbursement if Participant does not prevail in such action.
Although the Plan is designed to provide severance and other benefits to eligible employees as provided herein, the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee may amend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part at any time subject to paragraph K of Article I and Article II. However, no adverse amendment or termination of the Plan with respect to any Participant(s) shall be effective, without such Participants express written consent, during the period (i) commencing on the occurrence of a Change in Control and ending on the second anniversary of such Change in Control or (ii) commencing prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control when such amendment or termination is adopted, if adopted in connection with such Change in Control or at the request or suggestion of a third-party provided in either event that the Company and such third-party (or affiliate thereof) enter into an agreement that would at such time reasonably be expected to result in a Change of Control, and ending on the earlier of either the second anniversary of the date that such Change in Control occurs or the date that such agreement is terminated by the parties.
Except as specifically referenced herein, the benefits under this Plan replace and supersede any severance benefits, vesting acceleration, or non-competition/forbearance agreements previously established for any Participant, whether set forth in an employment agreement, severance arrangement or otherwise.
and the reasons why these are necessary,
An employees request must be made not later than 60 days after he or she receives the notice of denial. If an employee fails to act within the 60-day limit, the employee loses the right to have his or her claim reviewed.
tribunal mutually agreed upon by the parties (Tribunal), such as DRS or the Judicial Arbitration & Mediation Services (JAMS). In the event the parties select an arbitrator unaffiliated with a Tribunal, the provisions of the Companys Arbitration Procedure shall apply. Judgment upon any award rendered by an arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction.
Sponsor is required by law to cover such costs.
or in connection with the creation, amendment, construction, administration, interpretation and effect of this Plan that is within its authority hereunder or applicable law shall be within the absolute discretion of such entity and shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons. In the case of any conflict, the decision made or action taken by, or inaction of, the Plan Administrator will control. However, with respect to elected officers, any decision made or action taken by, or inaction of, the Compensation Committee controls.
applicable law.
A participant in the Plan is entitled to certain rights and protection under the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA). ERISA provides that all participants shall be entitled to:
In addition to creating rights for Plan participants, ERISA imposes obligations upon the persons who are responsible for the operation of a plan. The people who operate such a plan, called fiduciaries, have a duty to do so prudently and in the interest of plan participants and beneficiaries.
No one can otherwise discriminate against a participant in any way to prevent him or her from obtaining an explanation of benefits or exercising his or her rights under ERISA. If a participants claim for a benefit is denied, in whole or in part, the participant must receive a written explanation of the reason for the denial. The participant has the right to have the Company review and reconsider his or her claim.
Under ERISA, there are steps a participant can take to enforce his/her rights. For instance, if a participant requests materials from the Plan and does not receive them within 30 days, the participant may file suit in a Federal court. In such a case, the court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay the participant a penalty of up to $110.00 for each days delay until the participant receives the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of reasons beyond the control of the Plan Administrator.
Subject to the provisions of Article X above, if a participant has a claim for benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, the participant may file suit in a State or Federal court. If the participant is discriminated against for asserting his or her rights, the participant may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor, or he or she may file suit in a Federal court. The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees. If the participant is successful, the court may order the person the participant has sued to pay these costs and fees. If the participant loses, the court may order him or her to pay these costs and fees, for example, if it finds a participants claim is frivolous. If a participant has questions about a Plan, he or she should contact the Plan Administrator. If a participant has any questions about the Plan and Summary Plan Description or about his or her rights under ERISA, the participant should contact the
nearest area office of the U. S. Labor Management Service Administration, Department of Labor.
The Plan Administrator and Plan Sponsor is DIRECTV.
DIRECTV
C/O Plan Administrator
Human Resources
2230 E. Imperial Highway
El Segundo, CA 90245-0956
Service or legal process may also be directed to the Plan Administrator.
The Employer Identification Number of DIRECTV is 26-477-2533. The Plan Number is 538.
The records of the Plan are maintained on a Plan Year basis. December 31 of each year is the end of the Plan Year and all records reflect that fact.
The Plan is administered by the Plan Administrator. A complete list of employers and employee organizations sponsoring the Plan may be obtained by Participants and beneficiaries upon written request to the Plan Administrator, and is available for examination by Participants and beneficiaries. Information as to whether a particular employee or employee organization is a sponsor of the Plan may also be obtained upon written request to the Plan Administrator.
Exhibit A
DIRECTV
EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN
Executive Acknowledgment and Agreement
[Note: For each covered executive, the Executive Acknowledgment and Agreement to the DIRECTV Executive Severance Plan shall consist of one of the three provisos set forth below as applicable and the Acknowledgment.]
[Proviso 1]
I hereby agree to the terms and conditions of the DIRECTV Executive Severance Plan ("Plan").
[Proviso 2]
I hereby agree to the terms and conditions of the DIRECTV Executive Severance Plan, except that the definition of Effective Termination provided in the Plan shall be supplemented to include a material adverse change in the undersigneds reporting relationship, subject to all of the other provisions relating to an Effective Termination (such Executive Severance Plan, as so supplemented, is referred to as the "Plan").
[Proviso 3]
I hereby agree to the terms and conditions of the DIRECTV Executive Severance Plan, except that the definition of Effective Termination provided in the Plan shall be supplemented to include a material adverse change in the undersigneds reporting relationship, and subsection (5) of such definition shall be amended to include the relocation of the undersigneds principal office to a location outside the New York City metropolitan area; both of the above subject to all of the other provisions relating to an Effective Termination (such Executive Severance Plan, as so supplemented, is referred to as the "Plan").
Acknowledgment
I understand that pursuant to my agreement to be covered under the Plan, as indicated by my signature below, the terms of the Plan will exclusively govern all subject matter addressed by the Plan and I understand that the Plan supersedes and replaces, as applicable, any and all agreements (including any prior employment agreement), plans, policies, guidelines or other arrangements, including Other Severance Arrangements (as defined in the Plan), with respect to the subject matter covered under the Plan.
Dated: ____________________
EXECUTIVE
_______________________


