FILE:DTV/DTV-8K-20121106130320.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
(General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
see
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 6, 2012, DIRECTV issued a press release, which contained information regarding the third quarter 2012 consolidated results of DIRECTV. The press release did not include certain financial statements, related notes and certain other financial information that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of the DIRECTVs Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. A copy of the press release relating to such announcement, dated November 6, 2012, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
2
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
DIRECTV Announces Third Quarter 2012 Results
DIRECTV Third Quarter Revenues Grow 8% to $7.42 Billion and Operating Profit before Depreciation and Amortization Increases 6% to $1.69 Billion
Revenue increase driven by strong DIRECTV Latin America net subscriber growth of 543,000 in the third quarter coupled with 4.6% higher ARPU at DIRECTV U.S.
Operating profit before depreciation and amortization propelled by 8% increase at DIRECTV U.S. to $1.25 billion
DIRECTV Year-to-Date Free Cash Flow Increases 35% to $1.7 Billion
DIRECTV's Diluted Earnings per Share Rise 29% to $0.90 and Stock Repurchases Total $1.22 Billion in the Quarter
EL SEGUNDO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--November 6, 2012--DIRECTV (NASDAQ:DTV) today reported an increase in third quarter 2012 revenues of 8% to $7.42 billion, operating profit before depreciation and amortization (OPBDA) of 6% to $1.69 billion and operating profit of 4% to $1.07 billion compared to last year's third quarter. DIRECTV reported an increase in third quarter net income of 9% to $565 million and diluted earnings per share of 29% to $0.90 compared with the same period last year.
1
DIRECTV delivered another strong quarter highlighted by solid revenue, earnings and cash flow growth, said Mike White, president and CEO of DIRECTV. We continue to extend our position as the world's largest pay TV service with industry leading growth by leveraging the strength of our premier brands and distinctive products and services throughout the Americas." White added, "DIRECTV U.S.' third quarter results reflect successful execution of our long-term strategy to strike a more optimal balance between our top and bottom lines while DIRECTV Latin America continues to profitably increase market share in the rapidly growing Latin America pay-TV market by offering best-in-class service to both the advanced and middle market segments.
DIRECTV's Operational Review
Third Quarter Review
DIRECTV's third quarter revenues of $7.42 billion increased 8% principally due to subscriber growth at DIRECTV Latin America (DTVLA) and DIRECTV U.S., as well as higher ARPU at DIRECTV U.S. Operating profit before depreciation and amortization (OPBDA) increased 6% to $1.69 billion and operating profit increased 4% to $1.07 billion in the quarter compared with the same period last year. OPBDA and operating profit margin declined slightly in the quarter primarily due to higher customer service and general and administrative expenses at DTVLA. Also in the quarter, DIRECTV U.S. OPBDA and operating profit margins were higher as lower subscriber acquisition and general and administrative expenses, as well as relatively unchanged upgrade and retention costs were partially offset by increased programming costs including an extra week of NFL Sunday Ticket expense.
Net income attributable to DIRECTV increased 9% to $565 million and diluted earnings per share improved 29% to $0.90 compared with the third quarter of last year primarily due to the higher operating profit as well as a $72 million pre-tax non-cash loss in the third quarter of 2011 associated with the revaluation of U.S. dollar denominated net liabilities in Brazil. These changes were partially offset by higher income taxes in 2012 driven by higher pre-tax income and a lower effective tax rate in 2011 resulting from foreign tax credits not previously recognized. In addition, diluted earnings per share were favorably impacted by share repurchases made over the last twelve months.
Cash flow before interest and taxes increased 21% to $957 million and free cash flow increased 36% to $319 million compared to the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to lower capital expenditures and the higher OPBDA, partially offset by lower cash generated from working capital mostly due to the timing of receivables at DIRECTV U.S. Capital expenditures decreased principally due to a reduction in leased equipment and satellite payments at DIRECTV U.S. and DTVLA. Free cash flow was also impacted by higher net interest payments primarily due to an increase in average net debt balances. Also during the quarter but not included in free cash flow was cash paid for share repurchases of $1.22 billionIn September 2012, DIRECTV U.S. issued 750 million (~$1.2 billion) principal amount of 4.375% Senior Notes due 2029 and also entered into two senior unsecured revolving credit agreements - a $1.0 billion 3.5 year credit facility and a $1.5 billion 5 year credit facility - to replace a $2.0 billion credit agreement that was terminated during the month. Both were undrawn as of the end of the quarter.
2
3
.
Year to Date Review
DIRECTV's revenues for the first nine months of 2012 of $21.69 billion increased 10% principally due to subscriber growth over the last year at DTVLA and DIRECTV U.S., as well as higher ARPU at DIRECTV U.S. DIRECTV's year to date OPBDA increased 8% to $5.60 billion and operating profit increased 11% to $3.79 billion compared with the same period of 2011. OPBDA margin declined in the period primarily due to increased customer service, upgrade and retention and subscriber acquisition costs at DTVLA. Also in the period, DIRECTV U.S. OPBDA and operating profit margins were slightly higher as lower subscriber acquisition costs and relatively unchanged customer service spending was mostly offset by higher programming costs. Operating profit margin was also favorably impacted by lower depreciation expense at DIRECTV U.S. primarily driven by an increase in the estimated depreciable life of HD set-top boxes from three years to four years implemented in July 2011.
Net income attributable to DIRECTV increased 6% to $2.01 billion and diluted earnings per share improved 24% to $3.06 compared with the first nine months of 2011 primarily due to the higher operating profit and a $24 million increase in equity earnings, mostly from Sky Mexico. These were partially offset by higher income tax expense principally related to the increased earnings before tax and a lower effective tax rate in 2011 resulting from foreign tax credits not previously recognized, as well as higher interest expense resulting from higher average debt balances. Also negatively impacting the 2012 comparison was a $52 million reduction in pre-tax gains resulting from the sale of investments and a $39 million increase in charges associated with the early retirement of debt. In addition, diluted earnings per share were favorably impacted by share repurchases made over the last twelve months.
Cash flow before interest and taxes increased 23% to $3.29 billion and free cash flow increased 35% to $1.74 billion compared to the first nine months of 2011 primarily due to the higher OPBDA as well as an increase in cash generated from working capital mostly related to the timing of customer receipts at DIRECTV U.S. These increases were partially offset by greater capital expenditures principally driven by increased satellite payments at both DIRECTV U.S. and DTVLA, and higher infrastructure investment at DTVLA (including $51 million towards the purchase of a building in Venezuela) partially offset by lower capital expenditures on leased equipment at DIRECTV U.S. primarily resulting from the lower gross additions. The year over year comparison also reflects decreases of $92 million and $69 million for the sale of investments and dividend receipts, respectively. In addition, free cash flow was impacted by higher interest payments related to an increase in long-term debt. Also during the first nine months of 2012 but not included in free cash flow, was cash paid for share repurchases of $3.83 billionIn addition, in March 2012 DIRECTV U.S. issued $4.0 billion of debt consisting of $1.25 billion in 2.40% Senior Notes due 2017, $1.5 billion in 3.80% Senior Notes due 2022 and $1.25 billion in 5.15% Senior Notes due 2042. In May 2012, DIRECTV redeemed $1.5 billion of its outstanding 7.625% Senior Notes due 2016. In September 2012, DIRECTV U.S. issued 750 million (~$1.2 billion) principal amount of 4.375% Senior Notes due 2029 and also entered into two senior unsecured revolving credit agreements totaling $2.5 billion to replace a $2.0 billion credit agreement that was terminated during the month. Both revolving credit agreements were undrawn as of the end of the period.
.
SEGMENT FINANCIAL REVIEW
DIRECTV U.S. Segment
Third Quarter Review
In the quarter, DIRECTV U.S. revenues increased 6% to $5.77 billion compared with the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to strong ARPU growth and a larger subscriber base. Net subscriber growth of 67,000 decreased from the prior year period principally due to lower gross subscriber additions as well as an increase in the average monthly churn rate. Gross additions declined mainly due to a greater focus on higher quality subscribers and stricter credit policies, as well as lower contributions from the Telco sales channel. The higher churn rate in the quarter was principally driven by a contract dispute with a large programmer that resulted in the removal of several channels for nine days in the third quarter. ARPU increased 4.6% to $96.41 mostly due to price increases on programming packages, higher advanced service fees and an additional week of NFL Sunday Ticket revenues in the quarter, partially offset by increased promotional offers to new and existing customers. DIRECTV U.S. ended the quarter with 19.98 million subscribers compared with 19.76 million subscribers reported for the quarter ended September 30, 2011.
Third quarter OPBDA increased 8% to $1.25 billion and OPBDA margin improved to 21.7% principally due to lower subscriber acquisition costs related to the reduction in gross additions, reduced general and administrative expenses primarily due to lower bad debt expense and relatively unchanged retention and upgrade costs. These improvements were partially offset by higher programming costs mostly related to programming supplier rate increases, as well as an extra week of NFL Sunday Ticket expense in the quarter. Operating profit increased 10% to $876 million and operating profit margin increased to 15.2% in the third quarter mainly due to the OPBDA and OPBDA margin improvements.
DIRECTV Latin America
DIRECTV Latin America owns approximately 93% of Sky Brasil, 41% of Sky Mexico and 100% of PanAmericana, which covers most of the remaining countries in the region. Sky Mexico, whose results are accounted for as an equity method investment and therefore are not consolidated by DTVLA, had approximately 4.88 million subscribers as of September 30, 2012, bringing the total subscribers in the region to 14.55 million.
Third Quarter Review
In the third quarter, DTVLA revenues increased 16% to $1.58 billion compared to the same period last year principally due to strong subscriber growth partially offset by a 13.4% decline in ARPU. Net additions of 543,000 were modestly lower than the year ago period as increased gross additions were more than offset by higher average monthly churn on the larger subscriber base. Gross additions increased 13% to a third quarter record of 1.08 million principally due to greater middle market demand across the region, most notably in Argentina, Colombia and Brazil. Also in the quarter, average monthly post-paid churn increased to 1.54% and total average monthly churn increased to 1.91% primarily driven by higher churn in Brazil mostly related to the increased penetration of middle market subscribers. The decline in ARPU to $55.97 was due to unfavorable exchange rates, mainly in Brazil and Argentina. Excluding the impact of exchange rates, ARPU increased slightly in the quarter principally due to price increases and more upgrades including advanced services, partially offset by the higher penetration of lower ARPU middle market subscribers.
DIRECTV Latin America's third quarter 2012 OPBDA increased 5% to $455 million compared to the year ago period. OPBDA margin declined due in part to higher customer service expenses reflecting the larger subscriber base in both Brazil and PanAmericana, as well as higher costs related to serving middle market customers in Brazil. Also impacting the comparison in PanAmericana was higher general and administrative and subscriber services costs mostly resulting from inflationary pressure on labor costs, increased programming costs principally associated with the Olympics, as well as higher subscriber acquisition costs driven by record prepaid gross additions. Third quarter operating profit declined 6% to $221 million and operating profit margin declined primarily due to the lower OPBDA margin.
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
A live webcast of DIRECTV's third quarter 2012 earnings call will be available on the company's website at . The webcast will begin at 2:00 p.m. ET, today November 6, 2012. Access to the earnings call is also available in the United States by dialing (888) 219-1420 and internationally by dialing (913) 312-0420. The conference ID number is 4983786. A replay of the call can be accessed by dialing (888) 203-1112 in the U.S. and (719) 457-0820 internationally. The replay pass code is 4983786. The replay will be available from 3:00 p.m. PT, Tuesday, November 6 through 9:59 p.m. PT, Tuesday, November 13, and will also be archived on our website at .
www.directv.com/investor
www.directv.com/investor
FOOTNOTES
(1) Operating profit before depreciation and amortization, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Please see DIRECTV's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 for further discussion of operating profit before depreciation and amortization. Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin is calculated by dividing operating profit before depreciation and amortization by total revenues.
(2) Cash flow before interest and taxes, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with GAAP, is calculated by deducting amounts under the captions Cash paid for property and equipment, Cash paid for satellites, Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment - subscriber acquisitions and Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment - upgrade and retention from Net cash provided by operating activities from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and adding back net interest paid and Cash paid for income taxes. This financial measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of cash flows from operating activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP. DIRECTV management uses cash flow before interest and taxes to evaluate the cash generated by our current subscriber base, net of capital expenditures, and excluding the impact of interest and taxes, for the purpose of allocating resources to activities such as adding new subscribers, retaining and upgrading existing subscribers, for additional capital expenditures and as a measure of performance for incentive compensation purposes. We believe this measure is useful to investors, along with other GAAP measures (such as cash flows from operating and investing activities), to compare our operating performance to other communications, entertainment and media companies. We believe that investors also use current and projected cash flow before interest and taxes to determine the ability of our current and projected subscriber base to fund required and discretionary spending and to help determine the financial value of the company.
(3) Free cash flow, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with GAAP, is calculated by deducting amounts under the captions Cash paid for property and equipment, Cash paid for satellites, Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment - subscriber acquisitions, and Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment - upgrade and retention from Net cash provided by operating activities from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. This financial measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of cash flows from operating activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP. DIRECTV management uses free cash flow to evaluate the cash generated by our current subscriber base, net of capital expenditures, for the purpose of allocating resources to activities such as adding new subscribers, retaining and upgrading existing subscribers, for additional capital expenditures and as a measure of performance for incentive compensation purposes. We believe this measure is useful to investors, along with other GAAP measures (such as cash flows from operating and investing activities), to compare our operating performance to other communications, entertainment and media companies. We believe that investors also use current and projected free cash flow to determine the ability of our current and projected subscriber base to fund required and discretionary spending and to help determine the financial value of the company.
(4) DIRECTV Latin America subscriber data exclude subscribers of the Sky Mexico service. In addition, DTVLA gross and net additions exclude 7,000 video subscribers acquired in the third quarter, 2012 and 14,000 video subscribers acquired in the first nine months of 2012 in recent transactions. DTVLA cumulative subscriber counts include these acquired customers.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
NOTE: This presentation may include or incorporate by reference certain statements that we believe are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of various provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by use of statements that include phrases such as believe, expect, estimate, anticipate, intend, plan, project or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe our objectives, plans or goals also are forward-looking statements. All of these forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or from those expressed or implied by the relevant forward-looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: increased competition; increasing programming costs and our ability to renew programming contracts under favorable terms; increased subscriber churn or subscriber upgrade and retention costs; potential material increase in subscriber acquisition costs; general economic conditions; risks associated with doing business internationally, which for DIRECTV Latin America include political and economic instability and foreign currency exchange rate volatility and controls; pace of technological development; potential intellectual property infringement; loss of key personnel; satellite construction or launch delays; satellite launch and operational risks; loss of a satellite; theft of satellite programming signals; U.S. and foreign governmental and regulatory action; ability to maintain licenses and regulatory approvals; significant debt; indemnification obligations; reliance on network and information systems; and the outcome of legal proceedings. We may face other risks described from time to time in periodic reports filed by us with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
DIRECTV (NASDAQ:DTV) is one of the world's leading providers of digital television entertainment services. Through its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the United States, Brazil, Mexico and other countries in Latin America, DIRECTV provides digital television service to nearly 20 million customers in the United States and over 14.5 million customers in Latin America. DIRECTV sports and entertainment properties include three regional sports networks (Northwest, Rocky Mountain and Pittsburgh) as well as a 60 percent ownership interest in Game Show Network. For more information on DIRECTV, visit directv.com.
(2) and (3) - See footnotes above
CONTACT: DIRECTV Media Contact: Darris Gringeri, (212) 205-0882 Investor Relations: (310) 964-0808


