FILE:DTV/DTV-8K-20120216130106.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 16, 2012, DIRECTV issued a press release, which contained information regarding the fourth quarter 2011 consolidated results of DIRECTV. The press release did not include certain financial statements, related notes and certain other financial information that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of the DIRECTVs Annual Report on Form 10-K. A copy of the press release relating to such announcement, dated February 16, 2012, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
DIRECTV Announces Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Results
DIRECTV Adds 715,000 Net Additions in the Quarter Driven by DIRECTV Latin Americas All-Time Quarterly Record of 590,000; DIRECTV adds 3.7 million new subscribers in 2011 including Sky Mexico.
For the year, DIRECTV Latin America sets records with 3.5 million gross and 2.1 million net additions while Sky Mexico adds 964,000 net new subscribers
DIRECTV U.S. sets annual record for gross additions with 4.3 million while adding 662,000 net new subscribers
DIRECTV Fourth Quarter Revenue Growth of 13% drives full year revenue to over $27 Billion
DIRECTV Latin America full year revenues grow 42% on record subscriber growth and an 8.1% increase in ARPU
Full year DIRECTV U.S. revenue growth of 8% to $21.87 billion driven by strong subscriber and ARPU growth
DIRECTV Fourth Quarter Diluted Earnings per Share Increases 38% to $1.02 and grows over 50% to $3.47 for the full year
Full year EPS driven by DIRECTV Latin Americas 43% increase in operating profit before depreciation and amortization as well as $5.5 billion of share repurchases in 2011
DIRECTV Board Approves New $6 Billion Stock Repurchase Program
EL SEGUNDO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 16, 2012--DIRECTV (NASDAQ:DTV) today reported increases in fourth quarter 2011 revenues of nearly 13% to $7.46 billion, operating profit before depreciation and amortization (OPBDA) of 6% to $1.78 billion and operating profit of 14% to $1.21 billion compared to last years fourth quarter. DIRECTV also reported that fourth quarter net income increased 16% to $718 million while diluted earnings per share grew 38% to $1.02 compared with the same period last year.
1
Our fourth quarter results capped off another strong year of industry leading growth as we further extended our position as the worlds largest provider of pay television services with nearly 32 million subscribers in the U.S. and Latin America, said Mike White, president and CEO of DIRECTV. Strong consumer demand for DIRECTV and SKYs premium brands drove full year gross additions in both our U.S. and Latin American businesses to all-time highs fueling the largest annual net gain in DIRECTVs history of nearly 3.7 million subscribers including Sky Mexico. The tremendous subscriber performance along with solid ARPU growth fueled an acceleration of full year consolidated revenue growth to 13% exceeding the growth rates recorded over the past two years. In addition, earnings per share grew by over 50% in 2011 due to the higher operating profit at both DIRECTV U.S. and Latin America, as well as our share repurchase program.
White concluded, We exit 2011 on track to achieve the operating and financial priorities we outlined a year ago as part of our diversified growth strategy designed to further extend DIRECTVs leadership position as the worlds most popular pay television service while maintaining industry-leading revenue and earnings growth. We believe that successful execution of these strategies along with our share repurchase plan  highlighted by the approval of an additional $6 billion buyback authorization  will create significant shareholder value as we remain on track to achieve or exceed our $5 EPS target in 2013.
Fourth Quarter Review
DIRECTVs fourth quarter revenues of $7.46 billion increased nearly 13% over the same period last year principally due to strong subscriber growth at DIRECTV Latin America (DTVLA) and DIRECTV U.S., as well as higher DIRECTV U.S. average revenue per subscriber (ARPU). Operating profit before depreciation and amortization increased 6% to $1.78 billion while OPBDA margin declined to 23.9%. The margin decline was primarily due to higher programming costs at DIRECTV U.S. mostly related to program supplier rate increases and the new NFL Sunday Ticket contract, which went into effect with the 2011 season. Operating profit grew 14% to $1.21 billion and operating profit margin increased slightly to 16.3% as the decline in OPBDA margin was more than offset by lower depreciation expense at DIRECTV U.S. principally driven by an increase in the estimated depreciable life of high-definition (HD) set-top boxes from three years to four years resulting in a decline in depreciation expense of approximately $65 million in the quarter.
Net income attributable to DIRECTV increased 16% to $718 million compared with the fourth quarter of last year primarily due to the higher operating profit. This improvement was partially offset by higher interest expense principally resulting from an increase in long-term debt as well as increased income tax expense primarily due to higher pre-tax income and a lower effective tax rate in fourth quarter of 2010 resulting from foreign tax credits and a lower effective state tax rate. Diluted earnings per share increased 38% to $1.02 in the quarter due to the higher net income and a lower average share count resulting from stock repurchases made over the last twelve months.
Cash flow before interest and taxes increased 6% to $1.03 billion and free cash flow increased 1% to $720 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 due to the higher OPBDA and an increase in cash generated by changes in working capital driven primarily by the timing of payments under the new NFL Sunday Ticket contract. Cash flow was also impacted by increased capital expenditures mostly due to record gross additions at DTVLA as well as greater demand for advanced equipment and higher payments for satellites at both DIRECTV U.S. and DTVLA. Free cash flow was also negatively impacted by greater cash tax payments primarily due to the higher pre-tax income, as well as the utilization of tax credit carry-forwards in 2010. Also during the quarter but not included in free cash flow, was cash paid for share repurchases of $1.13 billion
3
.
Full Year Review
DIRECTVs full year 2011 revenues increased 13% to $27.23 billion over last year principally due to strong subscriber and ARPU growth at both DIRECTV Latin America and DIRECTV U.S. Operating profit before depreciation and amortization increased 9% to $6.98 billion while OPBDA margin declined to 25.6% during the period. The margin decline was primarily due to higher programming costs at DIRECTV U.S. mostly associated with program supplier rate increases and the new NFL Sunday Ticket contract. Full year 2011 operating profit increased 19% to $4.63 billion and operating profit margin increased to 17.0% as the lower OPBDA margin was more than offset by the decline in depreciation and amortization expenses at DIRECTV U.S.
Net income attributable to DIRECTV increased 19% to $2.61 billion in 2011 driven by the higher operating profit partially offset by greater interest expense principally resulting from an increase in long-term debt as well as greater income tax expense resulting from the higher pre-tax income. Also impacting the comparison was a $67 million gain from the final settlement of the equity collars in 2010 assumed in the Liberty transaction. Diluted earnings per share grew to $3.47, a 40% increase excluding the impact of the Malone transaction from the results of 2010, primarily due to higher net income as well as a lower average share count resulting from stock repurchases made over the last twelve months.
2
In 2011, cash flow before interest and taxes declined 5% to $3.71 billion and free cash flow fell 28% compared with 2010 as the higher OPBDA was more than offset by higher capital expenditures primarily associated with record gross additions and demand for advanced set-top boxes, as well as higher satellite expenditures at both DIRECTV U.S. and DTVLA. Full-year free cash flow was also impacted by higher cash interest payments related to an increase in long-term debt and greater cash tax payments primarily associated with higher pre-tax income, as well as the utilization of tax credit carry-forwards in 2010. During 2011 but not included in free cash flow, was cash paid for share repurchases of $5.50 billionIn addition, DIRECTV U.S. issued $4.0 billion of Senior Notes and redeemed $1.0 billion of 6.375% Senior Notes due 2015 during 2011.
.
SEGMENT FINANCIAL REVIEW
DIRECTV U.S. Segment
Fourth Quarter Review
In the quarter, DIRECTV U.S. revenues increased 9% to $6.03 billion due to ARPU growth of 4.9% coupled with the larger subscriber base. Net additions of 125,000 were lower due to an 8% decline in gross additions to 1.03 million and an increase in the average monthly churn rate to 1.52%. The ARPU increase to $101.38 was mostly due to higher NFL Sunday Ticket revenues, price increases on programming packages and leased set-top boxes, as well as higher advanced service and premium channel fees, partially offset by increased promotional offers to new and existing customers. DIRECTV U.S. ended the quarter with 19.89 million subscribers, an increase of 3% over the 19.22 million subscribers reported for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Fourth quarter OPBDA was relatively flat at $1.33 billion and OPBDA margin fell to 22.0% primarily due to higher programming costs mostly related to the new NFL Sunday Ticket contract and program supplier rate increases. Also in the quarter, operating profit grew 12% to $965 million and operating profit margin increased to 16.0% as the decline in OPBDA margin was more than offset by lower depreciation and amortization expense related to an increase in the estimated depreciable life of HD set-top boxes from three years to four years in July 2011, lower depreciation expense associated with a reduction in set-top box capital expenditures over the last several years and the completion of amortization for a subscriber-related intangible asset.
Full Year Review
In 2011, DIRECTV U.S. revenues increased 8% to $21.87 billion due to ARPU growth of 4.0% on the larger subscriber base. Net additions were relatively unchanged compared with 2010 at 662,000 as a 5% increase in gross additions to an all-time record 4.32 million was offset by a modest increase in the average monthly churn rate to 1.56% on a larger subscriber base. The ARPU increase to $93.27 was mostly due to price increases on programming packages and leased set-top boxes, higher advanced services fees, higher premium channel buy rates and an increase in NFL Sunday Ticket revenues, partially offset by more promotional offers to new and existing customers.
OPBDA in 2011 increased 1% to $5.29 billion and OPBDA margin fell to 24.2% primarily due to higher costs mostly related to program supplier rate increases and the new NFL Sunday Ticket contract. Also in 2011, operating profit grew 13% to $3.70 billion and operating profit margin increased to 16.9% as the decline in OPBDA margin was more than offset by lower depreciation and amortization expense related to an increase in the estimated depreciable life of HD set-top boxes from three years to four years, lower depreciation expense associated with a reduction in set-top box capital expenditures over the last several years and the completion of amortization for a subscriber-related intangible asset.
DIRECTV Latin America Segment
DIRECTV Latin America owns approximately 93% of Sky Brazil, 41% of Sky Mexico and 100% of PanAmericana, which covers most of the remaining countries in the region. Sky Mexico, whose results are accounted for as an equity method investment and therefore is not consolidated by DTVLA, had approximately 4.01 million subscribers as of December 31, 2011 bringing the total subscribers in the region to 11.88 million at the end of the fourth quarter of 2011.
Fourth Quarter Review
In the fourth quarter, DTVLA revenues increased 33% to $1.37 billion principally due to strong subscriber growth partially offset by a 1.2% decline in ARPU. Net additions increased 56% to an all-time record of 590,000 driven by a 51% increase in gross additions to 965,000 partially offset by an increase in monthly post paid churn in the quarter to 1.42% on a larger subscriber base. Gross additions were higher principally due to greater demand in Brazil particularly from the middle market segment, as well as from increased new activations in Argentina and Venezuela, while the increase in post-paid churn was mainly driven by higher churn in Brazil and Argentina. The decline in ARPU to $60.41 was mostly due to unfavorable exchange rates, mainly in Brazil and Argentina, as well as the impact from increased penetration of middle market subscribers partially offset by price increases and greater penetration of advanced services. Excluding the impact of exchange rates, DTVLA ARPU increased 1.8% in the fourth quarter.
DIRECTV Latin Americas fourth quarter 2011 OPBDA increased 23% to $422 million and operating profit rose 19% to $220 million. Also in the quarter, OPBDA margin declined to 30.8% and operating profit margin fell to 16.0% primarily due to higher subscriber acquisition costs associated with the record gross additions.
Full Year Review
In 2011, DTVLA revenues increased 42% to $5.10 billion principally due to strong subscriber growth and an 8.1% increase in ARPU. Net additions increased 69% to an all-time record of 2.06 million driven by a 51% increase in gross additions to 3.51 million and a decline in monthly post paid churn to 1.42%. Gross additions were higher principally due to greater demand in Brazil particularly from the middle market segment, as well as from increased new activations in Argentina, while the reduction in post-paid churn was mainly driven by lower churn in Venezuela and Brazil. The increase in ARPU to $62.64 was mostly due to price increases and greater penetration of advanced services, as well as favorable exchange rates in Brazil. Excluding the impact of exchange rates, DTVLA ARPU increased 6.1% in 2011. DIRECTV Latin Americas 2011 OPBDA increased 43% to $1.66 billion and operating profit rose 47% to $916 million as margins remained relatively unchanged from the prior comparable period.
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
A live webcast of DIRECTVs fourth quarter 2011 earnings and outlook call will be available on the companys website at . The webcast will begin at 1:00 p.m. ET, today, February 16, 2012. Access to the earnings call is also available in the United States by dialing (866) 719-0110 and internationally by dialing (719) 457-2506. The conference ID number is 9410265. A replay of the call can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S. and 719-457-0820 internationally. The replay pass code is 9410265. The replay will be available from 2:30 p.m. PT Thursday, February 16 through 9:59 p.m. PT Thursday, February 23, 2012 and will also be archived on our website at .
www.directv.com/investor
www.directv.com/investor
FOOTNOTES
(1) Operating profit before depreciation and amortization, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of operating results, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Please see DIRECTVs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, expected to be filed in February 2012, for further discussion of operating profit before depreciation and amortization. Operating profit before depreciation and amortization margin is calculated by dividing operating profit before depreciation and amortization by total revenues.
(2) In the second quarter of 2010, DIRECTV resolved an FCC issue regarding our Puerto Rico operations by consummating a transaction with Dr. John C. Malone and members of his family. Under the terms of the agreement, the Malones exchanged 21.8 million shares of DIRECTV Class B common stock, which were all of the outstanding Class B shares, for 26.5 million shares of DIRECTV Class A common stock. The additional 4.7 million shares, valued at approximately $160 million reduced the diluted earnings per share attributable to Class A shareholders to $2.30 for 2010. See reconciliation of adjusted diluted earnings per share to diluted earnings per share at the end of this release.
(3) Cash flow before interest and taxes, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with GAAP, is calculated by deducting amounts under the captions Cash paid for property and equipment, Cash paid for satellites, Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  subscriber acquisitions and Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  upgrade and retention from Net cash provided by operating activities from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and adding back net interest paid and Cash paid for income taxes. This financial measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of cash flows from operating activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP. DIRECTV management uses cash flow before interest and taxes to evaluate the cash generated by our current subscriber base, net of capital expenditures, and excluding the impact of interest and taxes, for the purpose of allocating resources to activities such as adding new subscribers, retaining and upgrading existing subscribers, for additional capital expenditures and as a measure of performance for incentive compensation purposes. DIRECTV believes this measure is useful to investors, along with other GAAP measures (such as cash flows from operating and investing activities), to compare our operating performance to other communications, entertainment and media companies. We believe that investors also use current and projected cash flow before interest and taxes to determine the ability of our current and projected subscriber base to fund required and discretionary spending and to help determine the financial value of the company.
(4) Free cash flow, which is a financial measure that is not determined in accordance with GAAP, is calculated by deducting amounts under the captions Cash paid for property and equipment, Cash paid for satellites, Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  subscriber acquisitions, and Cash paid for subscriber leased equipment  upgrade and retention from Net cash provided by operating activities from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. This financial measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures and is not presented as an alternative measure of cash flows from operating activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP. DIRECTV management uses free cash flow to evaluate the cash generated by our current subscriber base, net of capital expenditures, for the purpose of allocating resources to activities such as adding new subscribers, retaining and upgrading existing subscribers, for additional capital expenditures and as a measure of performance for incentive compensation purposes. DIRECTV believes this measure is useful to investors, along with other GAAP measures (such as cash flows from operating and investing activities), to compare our operating performance to other communications, entertainment and media companies. We believe that investors also use current and projected free cash flow to determine the ability of our current and projected subscriber base to fund required and discretionary spending and to help determine the financial value of the company.
(5) DIRECTV Latin America subscriber data exclude subscribers of the Sky Mexico service.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
NOTE: This presentation may include or incorporate by reference certain statements that we believe are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of various provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by use of statements that include phrases such as believe, expect, estimate, anticipate, intend, plan, project or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe our objectives, plans or goals also are forward-looking statements. All of these forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or from those expressed or implied by the relevant forward-looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: increased competition; increasing programming costs and our ability to renew programming contracts under favorable terms; increased subscriber churn or subscriber upgrade and retention costs; potential material increase in subscriber acquisition costs; general economic conditions; risks associated with doing business internationally, which for DIRECTV Latin America include political and economic instability and foreign currency exchange rate volatility and controls; pace of technological development; potential intellectual property infringement; loss of key personnel; satellite construction or launch delays; satellite launch and operational risks; loss of a satellite; theft of satellite programming signals; U.S. and foreign governmental and regulatory action; ability to maintain licenses and regulatory approvals; significant debt; indemnification obligations; reliance on network and information systems; and the outcome of legal proceedings. We may face other risks described from time to time in periodic reports filed by us with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
DIRECTV (NASDAQ:DTV) is one of the worlds leading providers of digital television entertainment services. Through its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the United States, Brazil, Mexico and other countries in Latin America, DIRECTV provides digital television service to nearly 19.9 million customers in the United States and nearly 12 million customers in Latin America. DIRECTV sports and entertainment properties include three regional sports networks (Northwest, Rocky Mountain and Pittsburgh) as well as a 60 percent ownership interest in Game Show Network. For more information on DIRECTV, visit directv.com.
CONTACT: DIRECTV Media Contact: Darris Gringeri, 212-205-0882 or Investor Relations: 310-964-0808


