Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This report contains forward looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Such statements are subject to certain factors which may cause our plans and results to differ significantly from plans and results discussed in forward looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Risk Factors attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. Overview We are engaged in the discovery and development of therapeutic products aimed at treating patients with a wide array of severe disease states, including cardiovascular and autoimmune disorders, inflammation and cancer. Since our incorporation in January 1992, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to drug discovery, research, and product and clinical development. Additionally, through our wholly owned subsidiary, Alexion Antibody Technologies, Inc., or AAT, we are engaged in the discovery and development of a portfolio of additional antibody therapeutics targeting severe unmet medical needs. Our two lead product candidates are antibodies that address specific diseases that arise when the human immune system attacks the human body itself and produces undesired inflammation. Antibodies are proteins that bind specifically to selected targets, or antigens, in the body. After the antibody binds to its target, it may activate the bodys immune system against the target, block activities of the target or stimulate activities of the target. We are currently examining our two lead antibody product candidates, pexelizumab and eculizumab, in eight different clinical development programs. Through AAT, our wholly owned subsidiary with extensive combinatorial human antibody library technologies and expertise, we have developed important additional capabilities to discover and develop additional antibody product candidates for the treatment of inflammatory diseases and cancer. We are also developing therapies employing the transplantation of cells from other species into humans, known as xenotransplantation. To date, we have not received any revenues from the sale of our products. We have incurred operating losses since our inception. As of July 31, 2002, we had an accumulated deficit of $180.8 million. We expect to incur substantial and increasing operating losses for the next several years due to expenses associated with product research and development, pre clinical studies and clinical testing, regulatory activities, manufacturing development, scale up and commercial manufacturing and developing a sales and marketing force and we may need to obtain additional financing to cover these costs. We plan to develop and commercialize on our own those product candidates for which the clinical trials and commercialization requirements can be funded and accomplished by our own resources. For those products which require greater resources, our strategy is to form corporate partnerships with major pharmaceutical companies for product development and commercialization, where we will stay play a major role. In December 2001, we and P&G entered into a binding memorandum of understanding, or MOU, pursuant to which we and P&G revised our January 1999 collaboration. Under the revised structure, we and P&G share decision making and responsibility for all future United States, or U.S., development and commercialization costs for pexelizumab, including clinical, manufacturing, marketing, and sales efforts. Prior to December 2001, 31 Table of Contents P&G was generally funding all clinical development and manufacturing costs for pexelizumab. Per the MOU, our revised collaboration with P&G provides for us and P&G to each incur approximately 50% of all Phase III clinical trial, product development and manufacturing, and commercialization costs necessary for the potential approval and marketing of pexelizumab in the U.S. and that each firm will receive an approximate equal share of the gross margin on U.S. sales, if any. P&G agreed to retain responsibility and costs for future development and commercialization outside the U.S., with us receiving a royalty on sales to the rest of the world, if any. We are responsible for royalties on certain third party intellectual property worldwide, if such intellectual property is necessary. Additionally, as part of the MOU, we will receive milestone payments for achieving specified development steps, regulatory filings and approvals, but will not receive previously agreed sales milestones and will generally forego further research and development support payments from P&G. As part of the revised collaboration per the MOU, P&G agreed to continue to fund 100% of the costs to complete the two on going Phase II clinical trials in myocardial infarction or heart attack patients that recently completed enrollment. We have agreed to bear the first 50% of projected costs associated with the CABG Phase III clinical trial and P&G will bear the second 50%, with a final adjustment to make even the 50% sharing of costs. We and P&G have agreed that each will share concurrently 50% of the on going U.S. pre production and development manufacturing costs of pexelizumab as well as any future AMI Phase III clinical trial costs. A letter of understanding has been signed relating to the negotiation and completion of an agreement with a third party manufacturer for the large scale commercial manufacture of pexelizumab over five years. The preparation of financial statements requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to intangible assets; collaborative, royalty and license arrangements; and other contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form our basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenues We record contract research revenues from research and development support payments, license fees and milestone payments under collaboration with third parties, and amounts received from various government grants. Up front, non refundable license fees received in connection with a collaboration are deferred and amortized into revenue over the life of the agreement or underlying technologies. Revenues derived from the achievement of milestones are recognized when the milestone is achieved, provided that the milestone is substantive and a culmination of the earnings process has occurred. Research and development support revenues are recognized as the related work is performed and expenses are incurred under the terms of the contracts for development activities. Revenues derived from the achievement of milestones or recognition of related work when performed under terms of a contract may cause our operating results to vary considerably from period to period. Unbilled reimbursable contract costs as shown on our consolidated balance sheets represent reimbursable costs incurred in connection with research contracts which have not yet been billed. We bill these costs and recognize the costs and related revenues in accordance with the terms of the contracts. Deferred revenue results from cash received or amounts receivable in advance of revenue recognition under research and development contracts. 32 Table of Contents Research and development expenses We record research and development expenses when they are incurred unless recoverable under contract. Research and development expenses include the following major types of costs: salaries and benefit costs, research license fees and various contractor costs, depreciation and amortization of lab facilities and leasehold improvements, building and utilities costs related to research space and lab supplies. Goodwill At July 31, 2002, we carry $20.0 million of goodwill, net, acquired in connection with our acquisition of Prolifaron (see Financial Note No.3 ), representing the excess cost over fair value of the net assets acquired. On a prospective basis, this goodwill or any long lived investment asset is subject to annual impairment reviews. Impairment charges, if any, will be recorded as a component of operating expenses in the period in which the impairment is determined, if any. Results of Operations Fiscal Years Ended July 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 We earned contract research revenues of $6.5 million, $11.8 million, and $21.4 million for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The decrease in revenues in fiscal year 2002 as compared to 2001 was primarily due to decreased research payments from Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals, or P&G, resulting from: (1) our December 2001 agreement per a binding memorandum of understanding, or MOU, to revise our 1999 collaboration agreement with P&G and (2) the completion of the Phase II pexelizumab CPB study. The decrease in revenues in fiscal year 2001 as compared to 2000 was primarily due to the lower research payments resulting from our completion of the Phase II pexelizumab CPB study. During fiscal year 2002, we incurred research and development expenses of $60.0 million. For fiscal years 2001 and 2000, we incurred research and development expenses of $38.9 million and $40.2 million, respectively. The increase in research and development expenses for fiscal year 2002 as compared to 2001 was attributable to higher clinical trial costs associated primarily with the Phase III pexelizumab PRIMO CABG trial as a result of the revised collaboration agreement with P&G which required us to share in the pexelizumab development costs and greater clinical manufacturing costs associated with our two lead product candidates pexelizumab and eculizumab. The decrease in research and development expenses for fiscal 2001 as compared to 2000 was primarily attributable to lower clinical manufacturing and clinical trial costs associated with the completion of Phase II pexelizumab CPB study. These lower costs were offset by increased costs from clinical trials, manufacturing development, and manufacturing of other lead C5 Inhibitor product candidate, eculizumab, and the consolidated on going research and development costs of AAT which was formed through the September 2000 acquisition from Prolifaron. The acquisition of Prolifaron in fiscal 2001 resulted in a one time, non cash charge of $21 million allocated to in process research and development projects. In addition, the Company recognized approximately $23 million of the purchase price as goodwill which was being amortized over the seven years following purchase. The amortization of this goodwill resulted in a charge of $2.9 million in the twelve months ended July 31, 2001. Effective August 1, 2001, the Companys adoption of SFAS No. 142 caused the amortization of goodwill to cease. Our general and administrative expenses were $8.0 million, $7.1 million and $4.2 million for fiscal years 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expenses in fiscal year 2002 as 33 Table of Contents compared to 2001 was principally due to higher payroll related costs. The increase in fiscal year 2001 as compared to 2000 was principally due to increased personnel and professional fees, as well as higher facilities expenses resulting from our relocation and expansion of our operations to support our growth, including our acquisition of Prolifaron. Total operating expenses were $68.0 million, $69.9 million, and $44.4 million for fiscal years 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. Total operating expenses in the twelve months ended July 31, 2001 included the one time non cash in process research and development charge and the non cash amortization of goodwill. Other income, net, was $4.2 million, $10.1 million, and $2.7 million for fiscal years 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The decrease in fiscal year 2002 as compared to 2001 was due to decreased interest income from lower cash balances and lower market interest rates. The increase in fiscal year 2001 as compared to 2000 was due to increased interest income from higher cash balances resulting primarily from the $208.5 million of net proceeds received from the sale of common stock in November 2000. A state tax benefit of $0.7 million was recognized in fiscal year 2002 resulting from the Companys exchange of its fiscal 2001 incremental research and development tax credit. During fiscal year 2001, we recorded a $9.1 million non cash charge that is related to the cumulative change in accounting principle per the adoption of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 or SAB 101. We adopted SAB 101 in fiscal year 2001 and therefore changed our revenue recognition policy for up front non refundable payments from immediate recognition to deferral of the revenue with the up front fee amortized into revenue over the life of the agreement. We recognized the non cash cumulative effect adjustment of $9.1 million as of August 1, 2000. Included in each of fiscal years 2002 and 2001 were contract revenues of $0.6 million related to the SAB 101 amortization of the up front, non refundable payment over the life of the agreement. As a result of the above factors, we incurred a net loss of $56.5 million, $57.0 million, and $20.2 million or $3.12, $3.28, and $1.45 basic and diluted net loss per share for fiscal years ended July 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. Shown below are our statements of operations for fiscal years ended 2002, 2001, and 2000. Excluding the impact of the non cash charges resulting from our acquisition of Prolifaron and the cumulative effect of SAB 101, we incurred a pro forma net loss of $24.0 million or $1.38 basic and diluted net loss per share for fiscal year ended July 31, 2001. 34 Table of Contents The following table displays the results of our operations, as well as on a pro forma basis relative to our 2001 results. The pro forma 2001 results exclude non cash charges for in process research and development, amortization of goodwill, and cumulative effect of adoption of SAB 101. Twelve months ended July 31, 2002 2001 2001 2000 pro forma(a) ($ in thousands, except per share data) Contract Research Revenues $ 6,536 $ 11,805 $ 11,805 $ 21,441 Operating Expenses: Research and development 60,005 38,871 38,871 40,187 General and administrative 7,993 7,135 7,135 4,175 In process research development (IPRD) 21,000 Amortization of goodwill (GW) 2,901 Total operating expenses 67,988 46,006 69,907 44,362 Operating loss (61,462 ) (34,201 ) (58,102 ) (22,921 ) Other income, net 4,220 10,177 10,177 2,694 State tax benefit 700 Loss before cumulative effect of SAB 101 (56,542 ) (24,024 ) (47,925 ) (20,277 ) Cumulative effect of adoption of SAB 101 (9,118 ) Net loss $ (56,542 ) $ (24,024 ) $ (57,043 ) $ (20,227 ) Basic and diluted net loss per share $ (3.12 ) $ (1.38 ) $ (3.28 ) $ (1.45 ) (a) excludes non cash IPRD, Amortization of GW, and Cumulative effect of adoption of SAB 101 Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception in January 1992, we have financed our operations and capital expenditures principally through private placements of our common and preferred stock, an initial public offering of our common stock and subsequent follow on offerings, the sale of convertible subordinated notes, other debt financing, payments received under corporate collaborations and grants, and equipment and leasehold improvements financing. As of July 31, 2002, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaled $308.6 million compared to $355.3 million as of July 31, 2001. At July 31, 2002, our cash and cash equivalents consisted of $47.6 million that we hold in short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than three months. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as compared to July 31, 2001 was due to the use of funds to fund our operations and capital equipment investments. As of July 31, 2002, we have invested $24.7 million in property and equipment to support our research and development efforts. We anticipate our research and development expense will increase significantly for the foreseeable future to support our clinical and manufacturing development of our product candidates. We anticipate that our existing capital resources together with the anticipated funding from our revised collaboration with P&G, as well as the addition of our interest and investment income earned on available cash and marketable securities should provide us adequate resources to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements as currently planned for at least the next twenty four months. This should also provide us adequate funding for the clinical testing of our C5 Inhibitor product candidates and support our broad research and development of our additional product candidates. 35 Table of Contents Our contractual obligations and commercial commitments consist principally of our $120 million of convertible subordinated notes, a $3.9 million note payable, our operating leases principally for facilities and equipment, and an open letter of credit of $200,000 which serves as a security deposit on our facility lease in Cheshire, Connecticut. We have no outstanding capital leases. We have cancelable research and development and clinical and manufacturing development cost commitments along with anticipated supporting arrangements, subject to certain limitations and cancellation clauses, aggregating $58.8 million over the next three years. And, if and when we achieve specified contractual milestones related to product development and product license applications and approvals, additional payments would be required if we elect to continue and maintain our licenses with our licensors, aggregating up to $24.2 million. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations, commercial commitments, and anticipated supporting arrangements subject to certain limitations and cancellation clauses and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods ($ amounts in millions): 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 and thereafter Contractual obligations: Subordinated convertible notes $ $ $ $ $ 120.0 $ Note payable 3.9 Operating leases 1.6 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.1 9.4 Total contractual obligations $ 1.6 $ 2.0 $ 5.9 $ 2.0 $ 122.1 $ 9.4 Commercial commitments and anticipated supporting arrangements: Clinical and manufacturing development $ 47.1 $ 7.2 $ 1.2 $ 0.1 $ 0.1 $ Licenses 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Research and development 1.0 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.4 Total commercial commitments $ 48.6 $ 8.1 $ 2.1 $ 0.9 $ 1.0 $ Interest on our $120 million 5.75% convertible subordinated notes due March 15, 2007 is payable semi annually in September and March of each year. The holders may convert all or a portion of the notes into common stock any time on or before March 15, 2007 at a conversion price of $106.425 per common share. Beginning March 20, 2003, we may redeem some or all of the notes per the declining redemption prices listed for the notes. We may also elect to pay the repurchase price for some or all the notes in cash or common stock. Interest on our $3.9 million note payable due in May 2005, bearing interest at 6.0% per annum, is payable quarterly. This note payable was used to finance certain manufacturing assets acquired in February 1999, principally land, buildings and laboratory equipment, for the xenograft program developed by Tyco Healthcare, formerly known as U.S. Surgical Corporation. The principal balance under the note is due in May 2005. Security for this term note is the manufacturing assets that we purchased. We are looking to leverage our opportunities in this program as we complete optimization of manufacturing methods for the UniGraft cells/tissue to enable clinical development. If we are unable to secure a collaboration to share in the future funding of the development and clinical trials, we may be unable to maximize the value in this program; and subsequently, may have to reduce our financial commitment to the program. This may cause a delay or termination of our UniGraft program, and impairment to our UniGraft manufacturing assets resulting in a write down of a portion of those assets. As of July 31, 2002, the carrying value of those assets was approximately $4 million. 36 Table of Contents We lease our headquarters and research and development facility in Cheshire, Connecticut that we relocated to in November 2000. The lease has an initial term of ten years and six months, expiring in December 2010. At this site, we lease a total of 89,000 square feet of space, which includes approximately 69,000 square feet related to research and laboratories. We have incurred initial leasehold improvements aggregating approximately $5.7 million. In addition, we are paying a pro rata percentage of real estate taxes and operating expenses. Our pilot manufacturing plant, which may be used for producing compounds for some of our current and anticipated clinical trials, is expected to remain in New Haven, Connecticut and encompasses approximately 30,000 square feet of labs and offices. We are on a month to month rental and are currently negotiating a longer term arrangement for the facilities in New Haven, Connecticut. We believe our research and development facilities and our pilot manufacturing facility will be adequate for our current ongoing activities. Alexion Antibody Technologies, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, leases approximately 12,000 square feet of labs and office space in San Diego, California. The lease has a term of ten years, expiring in August 2012. In December 2001, we and P&G entered into a binding memorandum of understanding, or MOU, pursuant to which we and P&G revised our January 1999 collaboration. Under the revised structure, we will share decision making and responsibility for all future U.S. development and commercialization costs for pexelizumab, including clinical, manufacturing, marketing, and sales efforts. Prior to December 2001, P&G was generally funding all clinical development and manufacturing costs for pexelizumab. The revised collaboration per the MOU provides for us and P&G to each incur approximately 50% of all Phase III clinical trial, product development and manufacturing, and commercialization costs necessary for the potential approval and marketing of pexelizumab in the U.S. and that each firm will receive an approximate equal share of the gross margin on U.S. sales, if any. P&G agreed to retain responsibility and cost for future development and commercialization outside the U.S., with us receiving a royalty on sales to the rest of the world, if any. We are responsible for royalties on certain third party intellectual property worldwide, if such intellectual property is necessary. Additionally, as part of the MOU, we will receive milestone payments for achieving specified development steps, regulatory filings and approvals, but will not receive previously agreed sales milestones and will generally forgo further research and development support payments from P&G. As part of the revised collaboration per the MOU, P&G agreed to continue to fund 100% of the costs to complete the two on going Phase II clinical trials in myocardial infarction or heart attack patients that recently completed enrollment. We have agreed to bear the first 50% of projected costs associated with the CABG Phase III clinical trial and P&G will bear the second 50%, with a final adjustment to make even the 50% sharing of costs. We and P&G have agreed that each will share concurrently 50% of the on going U.S. pre production and development manufacturing costs of pexelizumab as well as any future AMI Phase III clinical trial costs. The parties have agreed to secure commercial manufacturing capacity for pexelizumab. A letter of understanding has been signed relating to the negotiation and completion of an agreement with a third party manufacturer for large scale commercial production. P&G has the right to terminate the collaboration at any time. If P&G terminates prior to incurring its 50% of the CABG Phase III clinical trial costs, then P&G will not be required to contribute towards its approximately equal share of the U.S. CABG Phase III clinical trial costs and P&G will be released from its future funding obligations. In addition, P&G would offer to assign any pexelizumab third party manufacturing agreements and we could be obligated to assume all future costs there under and reimburse P & G for its prior payments thereunder. If P&G terminates, all rights and the exclusive license to our intellectual property related to pexelizumab will revert back to us and we will be entitled to all future pexelizumab revenues, if any, without any sharing of revenues, if any, with P&G. If we were to continue development of pexelizumab, our costs would increase significantly as we would need to fund development and commercialization of pexelizumab on our own or identify a new collaboration partner. 37 Table of Contents We expect to continue to operate at a net loss for at least the next several years as we continue our research and development efforts and continue to conduct clinical trials and develop manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Our operating expenses will depend on many factors, including: the progress, timing and scope of our research and development programs; the progress, timing and scope of our preclinical studies and clinical trials; the time and cost necessary to obtain regulatory approvals; the time and cost necessary to further develop manufacturing processes, arrange for contract manufacturing or build manufacturing facilities and obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for those facilities; the time and cost necessary to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; changes in applicable governmental regulatory policies; and any new collaborative, licensing and other commercial relationships that we may establish. We expect to incur substantial additional costs for research, pre clinical and clinical testing, manufacturing process development, additional capital expenditures related to personnel and facilities expansion, clinical and commercial manufacturing requirements, secure commercial contract manufacturing capacity, and marketing and sales in order to commercialize our products currently under development. Furthermore, we will owe royalties to parties we have licensed intellectual property from, or may in the future license intellectual property from, in connection with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. In addition to milestone payments we may receive from our collaboration with P&G and our interest and investment income that are subject to market interest rate fluctuations, we will need to raise or generate substantial additional funding in order to complete the development and commercialization of all of our product candidates. Furthermore, the development or expansion of our business or any acquired business or companies may require a substantial capital investment by us. Our additional financing may include public or private debt or equity offerings, equity line facilities, bank loans, collaborative research and development arrangements with corporate partners, and or the sale or licensing of some of our property. There can be no assurance that funds will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that discussions with potential strategic or collaborative partners will result in any agreements on a timely basis, if at all. The unavailability of additional financing when and if required could require us to delay, scale back or eliminate certain research and product development programs or to license third parties to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise undertake ourselves, any of which could have a material adverse effect. For tax reporting purposes, as of July 31, 2002, we had approximately $162.6 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards, which expire through 2022 (of which approximately $ 18.0 million resulted from the exercise of nonqualified stock options) and $9.6 million of tax credit carryforwards, which expire commencing in fiscal 2008. Provisions of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 may limit our ability to utilize net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in any given year if certain events occur, including a provision relating to cumulative changes in ownership interests in excess of 50% over a three year period. We believe that we have triggered these limitation provisions. 38 Table of Contents Recently issued accounting standards In June 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities (SFAS 146). This Statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). The provisions of SFAS No. 146 are effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002, with early application encouraged. We believe the adoption of this new standard will not have a material impact on either the operating results or financial position of the Company. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections. This Statement rescinds SFAS No. 4, Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt, SFAS No. 44, Accounting for Intangible Assets of Motor Carriers and SFAS No. 64, Extinguishments of Debt Made to Satisfy Sinking Fund Requirements. This statement also amends SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases and makes various technical corrections to existing pronouncements. Those corrections are not substantive in nature. The provisions of SFAS No. 145 were effective as of May 15, 2002. The adoption of the new standard had no impact on the operating results or the financial position of the Company. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. SFAS No. 144 modifies the rules for accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets and supercedes SFAS No. 121. The new rules become effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001, with earlier application encouraged. The adoption of this standard on August 1, 2002 did not have a material impact on the operating results or financial position of the Company. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Obligations Associated with the Retirement of Long Lived Assets. The objective of SFAS No. 143 is to provide accounting guidance for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets. The retirement obligations included within the scope of this pronouncement are those that an entity cannot avoid as a result of either the acquisition, construction or normal operation of a long lived asset. Components of larger systems also fall under this pronouncement, as well as tangible long lived assets with indeterminable lives. The provisions of SFAS No. 143 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. The adoption of this standard on August 1, 2002 did not have a material impact on the operating results or the financial position of the Company. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We account for our marketable securities in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities (SFAS 115). All of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available for sale under SFAS 115. Investments in fixed rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities which have seen a decline in market value due to changes in 39 Table of Contents interest rates. Our marketable securities are held for purposes other than trading and we believe that we currently have no material adverse market risk exposure. The marketable securities as of July 31, 2002, had maturities of less than two years. The weighted average interest rate on marketable securities at July 31, 2002 and 2001 was 2.4% and 4.2%, respectively. The fair value of marketable securities held at July 31, 2002 was $261.0 million. At July 31, 2002, we had aggregate fixed rate debt of approximately $124 million. If interest rates associated with this debt were increased 10%, a corresponding increase in our annual interest expense of approximately $700,000 would occur. 
 
