Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. This report contains forward looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Such statements are subject to certain factors which may cause our plans and results to differ significantly from plans and results discussed in forward looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Important Factors Regarding Forward Looking Statements in the section entitled Risk Factors. Overview We are engaged in the discovery and development of therapeutic products aimed at treating patients with a wide array of severe disease states, including hematologic, cardiovascular, and autoimmune disorders. Since our incorporation in January 1992, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to drug discovery, research, and product and clinical development. Additionally, through our wholly owned subsidiary, Alexion Antibody Technologies, Inc., or AAT, we are engaged in the discovery and development of a portfolio of additional antibody therapeutics targeting severe unmet medical needs. Our two lead product candidates are therapeutic antibodies that address specific diseases that arise when the human immune system produces inflammation in the human body. Antibodies are proteins that bind specifically to selected targets, or antigens, in the body. After the antibody binds to its target, it may activate the bodys immune system against the target, block activities of the target or stimulate activities of the target. We are currently examining our two lead antibody product candidates in a variety of clinical development programs. One product candidate, eculizumab, is in Phase III clinical development for treatment of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, or PNH, a chronic hematologic disease; and our second product candidate, pexelizumab, is in clinical development for two distinct acute cardiac indications. We are developing pexelizumab in collaboration with Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals, or P&G, and rely on P&G for the timely development and potential commercialization of pexelizumab. Currently, none of our drug product candidates is available for commercial sale. All of our potential products are in clinical or pre clinical development and the status of each of our lead product candidates is set forth, by indication, in Item 1 of this Report under the heading Phase III Product Candidates. Successful completion of development of a product candidate is contingent on numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors which are described in detail in the section entitled Risk Factors. These factors include: completion of pre clinical and clinical trials of the product candidate with scientific results that support further development and or regulatory approval receipt of necessary regulatory approvals obtaining adequate supplies of product candidates on commercially reasonable terms obtaining capital necessary to fund our operations, including our research and development efforts, manufacturing requirements and clinical trials performance of third party collaborators, particularly Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals, on whom we rely heavily for the co development and commercialization of one of our lead product candidates performance of third party manufacturers, particularly Lonza Biologics, on whom we rely heavily for the manufacture of one of our lead product candidates obtaining manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities for which we presently have limited resources As a result of the amount and nature of these factors, many of which are outside of our control, the success, timing of completion, and ultimate cost, of development of any of our product candidates is highly uncertain and cannot be estimated with any degree of certainty. The timing and cost to complete drug trials alone may be impacted by, among other things, 31 Table of Contents slow patient enrollment; long treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness; lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate; adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; lack of effectiveness of the product candidate being tested; and lack of sufficient funds. If we do not successfully complete clinical trials, we will not receive regulatory approval to market our drug products. If we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products, we will not generate any revenues from the sale of our products and the value of our company and our financial condition and results of operations will be substantially harmed. To date, we have not received any revenues from the sale of products. We have incurred operating losses since our inception. As of July 31, 2004, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $339.4 million. We expect to incur substantial and increasing operating losses for the next several years due to expenses associated with product research and development, pre clinical studies and clinical testing, regulatory activities, manufacturing development, scale up and commercial manufacturing, pre commercialization activities, developing a sales and marketing force, and increasing administrative personnel and professional services to support growth of our operations, and we may need to obtain additional financing to cover these costs. We plan to develop and commercialize on our own those product candidates for which the clinical trials and commercialization requirements can be funded and accomplished by our own resources. For those products which require greater resources, our strategy is to form corporate partnerships for product development and commercialization, where we will stay play a major role. Critical Accounting Policies and the Use of Estimates We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenues We record contract research revenues from research and development support payments, license fees and milestone payments under collaboration with third parties, and amounts received from various government grants. We evaluate all deliverables in our collaborative agreements to determine whether they represent separate units of accounting. Deliverables qualify for separate accounting treatment if they have standalone value to the customer and if there is objective evidence of fair value. Up front, non refundable license fees received in connection with a collaboration are deferred and amortized into revenue over the life of the agreement or underlying technologies. Revenues derived from the achievement of milestones are recognized when the milestone is achieved, provided that the milestone is substantive and a culmination of the earnings process has occurred. Research and development support revenues are recognized as the related work is performed and expenses are incurred under the terms of the contracts for development activities. Revenues derived from the achievement of milestones or recognition of related work when performed under terms of a contract may cause our operating results to vary considerably from period to period. Deferred revenue results from cash received or amounts receivable in advance of revenue recognition under research and development contracts. Research and development expenses We record research and development expenses when they are incurred unless recoverable under contract. Research and development expenses include the following major types of costs: salaries and benefit costs, research license fees and various contractor costs, costs of products developed for clinical trials, depreciation and amortization of lab facilities and leasehold 32 Table of Contents improvements, building and utilities costs related to research space, and lab supplies. Research and development expenses can fluctuate significantly from milestone payments due to third parties upon the attainment or triggering of contractual milestones such as the grant of a patent, FDA filing, FDA approval, or achieving a manufacturing or sales objective. Accrued research and development expenses are comprised of amounts owed to suppliers for research and development work performed on behalf of us. At each period end we evaluate the accrued expense balance related to these activities based upon information received from the supplier and estimated progress toward completion of the research or development objectives to ensure that the balance is appropriately stated. Such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. Long lived assets We assess the impairment of long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that we consider important, which could trigger an impairment review, include, among others, the following: a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long lived asset is being used; a significant adverse change in the business climate that could affect the value of a long lived asset; and a significant decrease in market value of assets. If we determine that the carrying value of long lived assets may not be recoverable, based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of impairment, we will compare the carrying value of the asset group to the undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the group. If the carrying value exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, we will then compare the carrying value of the asset group to its fair market value to determine whether an impairment charge is required. If the fair market value is less than the carrying value, such amount is recognized as an impairment charge. (See section entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources). Goodwill, net At July 31, 2004, we carry $20.0 million of goodwill, net, acquired in connection with our fiscal 2001 acquisition of Prolifaron, representing the excess cost over fair value of the net assets acquired. On a prospective basis, this goodwill or any long lived investment asset is subject to annual impairment reviews. Impairment charges, if any, will be recorded as a component of operating expenses in the period in which the impairment is determined, if any. Prepaid manufacturing costs At July 31, 2004, we carry $9.5 million of prepaid manufacturing costs for cash remitted to Lonza pursuant to a large scale product supply agreement for the long term commercial manufacture of our C5 inhibitor antibody, eculizumab. We are recognizing this advance over the large scale manufacture of eculizumab. Per the Lonza Amendment, as defined in section entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources, the amounts advanced are not refundable and are subject to forfeiture pursuant to contractual terms related to cancellation, termination, or failure to purchase a minimum manufacturing capacity. We evaluate the prepaid manufacturing costs against estimated net realizable value, or NRV. If estimated NRV were not to be positive, then all or a portion of the prepaid manufacturing cost may have to be recognized as an expense. Results of Operations A reclassification has been made to the presentation of operating expenses for the twelve months ended July 31, 2003 in order to conform to current year expense classifications. Our Connecticut capital based tax in the prior fiscal year was reclassified from state tax benefit to operating expense. In addition, certain reclassifications have been made to prior year balance sheet items to conform to current year classifications. Reimbursable contract costs that had previously been netted in accounts payable for 2003 has been disclosed as a separate item in the balance sheet. 33 Table of Contents A summary of revenues generated from contract research collaboration and grant awards is as follows (amounts in thousands): Year Ended July 31, 2004 2003 2002 Collaboration/Grant Awards P&G $ 4,588 $ 673 $ 4,591 U.S. government grants 21 204 1,745 Other 200 Total revenues $ 4,609 $ 877 $ 6,536 Fiscal Years Ended July 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 We earned contract research revenues of $4.6 million, $0.9 million, and $6.5 million for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we recognized a $4 million milestone payment from P&G concurrent with the dosing of our first patient in the APEX AMI trial. All other revenue in fiscal year 2004 and 2003 is primarily a non cash item representing the amortization of the $10 million upfront fee paid to us by P&G in February 1999. U.S. government grants totaled $21,000 in fiscal 2004 and $204,000 in fiscal 2003. The $183,000 decrease in revenues associated with U.S. government grants resulted primarily from the reduction in grant reimbursable billings from our various government grants as a result of our completion of the related research. The decrease in revenues in fiscal year 2003 as compared to fiscal year 2002 was principally due to decreased research payments from P&G resulting from our December 2001 agreement per a binding memorandum of understanding, or MOU, to revise our 1999 collaboration agreement with P&G. During fiscal year 2004, we incurred research and development expenses of $59.8 million. For fiscal years 2003 and 2002, we incurred research and development expenses of $71.0 million and $60.0 million, respectively. We track our research and development costs by category incurred rather than by project. Our research and development costs consist primarily of payroll and benefits costs, clinical trial costs and other clinical related development costs, manufacturing development and manufacturing costs, discovery research costs, depreciation and amortization expense, and occupancy related facility operating costs. The following table summarizes the major research and development expense categories for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 respectively ($ in thousands): Fiscal year ended July 31, ($ in thousands) 2004 2003 2002 Research and development expenses: Payroll and benefits $ 14,749 $ 13,613 $ 11,044 Clinical development 20,398 25,122 19,778 Manufacturing development and manufacturing 14,027 17,414 13,017 Discovery research 3,592 8,241 10,339 Operating, occupancy, depreciation, and amortization 7,074 6,652 5,827 Total research and development $ 59,840 $ 71,042 $ 60,005 The $11.2 million decrease in research and development expenses in fiscal 2004 from fiscal 2003 resulted primarily from i) lower clinical development costs of $4.7 million due principally to the completion of the pexelizumab Phase III PRIMO CABG clinical trial; ii) lower costs for discovery research of $4.6 million due to lower external research and license fees and the suspension of the UniGraft program at CFC; and iii) lower 34 Table of Contents manufacturing development and manufacturing activities of $3.4 million resulting from the amended manufacturing agreement with Lonza and the timing of costs related to the manufacture of pexelizumab. These lower expenses are partially offset by increased payroll and benefits costs of approximately $1.1 million and increased occupancy and depreciation costs of $0.4 million. We believe research and development expenses will increase in fiscal 2005 due to, among other things, the confirmatory pivotal Phase III clinical trial with pexelizumab in CABG patients, a pivotal Phase III clinical trial with pexelizumab in AMI patients receiving angioplasty, and the preparation and initiation of the pivotal Phase III program with eculizumab in PNH patients. The increase in research and development expenses for fiscal year 2003 as compared to 2002 was due to greater clinical trial costs while sustaining greater manufacturing costs for our two lead product candidates pexelizumab and eculizumab. Our agreement with P&G to bear the first 50% of the Phase III pexelizumab PRIMO CABG trial costs, along with our concurrent clinical trials with eculizumab in PNH, rheumatoid arthritis, and membranous nephritis patients, resulted in higher clinical trial costs in fiscal 2003 as compared to 2002. Our general and administrative expenses were $14.5 million, $10.9 million and $8.0 million for fiscal years 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expenses of $3.6 million in fiscal year 2004 as compared to 2003 was due principally from increased pre marketing and business development activities of approximately $1.8 million in support of our PNH clinical trials as well as continued growth of our operations. This growth resulted in increased payroll and benefits cost of approximately $438,000, increased occupancy costs of $584,000, increased professional and legal fees of approximately $520,000, an increase in personal and franchise taxes of approximately $118,000, as well as an increase in directors and officers liability insurance and general liability insurance of approximately $252,000, partially offset by a decrease in capital based state taxes of approximately $135,000. The increase in general and administrative expenses in fiscal year 2003 as compared to 2002 was principally due to increased costs associated with our pre marketing and business development activities and increased personnel and professional services to support growth of our operations. The termination of our UniGraft program resulted in an impairment to our UniGraft manufacturing assets, principally the real estate, building, building improvements and capital lab and farm equipment at our subsidiary, Columbus Farming Corporation, or CFC. These assets were purchased from U.S. Surgical Corporation, now a division of Tyco through the issuance of a $3.9 million note by CFC to Tyco. The purchased assets are pledged as security for the note. CFC will liquidate the assets to satisfy its debt obligation in whole or in part. We anticipate that Tyco will retain the proceeds from the sale of CFCs assets and discharge the note and unpaid interest. In August 2004, a written offer of $450,000 was accepted by Tyco for CFCs assets. We used the accepted offer as the basis for determining the fair market value of CFCs assets and accordingly, we have written down the fair market value of these assets by $760,000 from $1.2 million to $450,000 as of July 31, 2004. (See section entitled Unigraft Xenotransplantation Technologies Program) Total operating expenses were $75.1 million, $84.5 million, and $68.0 million for fiscal years 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. Other income (expense), net, was an expense of $4.3 million and $1.9 million in fiscal years 2004 and 2003, respectively, and income of $4.2 million for fiscal year 2002, and represents interest expense offset by investment income. The increase in other expense, net, in fiscal year 2004 and 2003 as compared to 2002 was due to approximately the same amount of interest expense partially offset by lower investment income from lower market interest rates and lower cash balances. A state tax benefit of $691,000, $1,012,000 and $700,000 was recognized in each of fiscal year 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, resulting from our estimated exchange of our fiscal 2004 and actual exchange of our fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001 incremental research and development tax credits. As a result of the above factors, we incurred net losses of $74.1 million, $84.5 million, and $56.5 million or $3.43, $4.64, and $3.12 basic and diluted net loss per share for fiscal years ended July 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. 35 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception in January 1992, we have financed our operations and capital expenditures principally through private placements of our common and preferred stock, an initial public offering of our common stock and subsequent follow on offerings, the sale of convertible subordinated notes, other debt financing, payments received under corporate collaborations and grants, and equipment and leasehold improvements financing. As of July 31, 2004, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaled $266.5 million compared to $215.4 million as of July 31, 2003. At July 31, 2004, our cash and cash equivalents consisted of $113.2 million that we hold in short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than three months. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as compared to July 31, 2003 was due principally to the sale of 5.5 million shares of common stock in July 2004 at a price of $15.50 per share resulting in net proceeds of approximately $80.9 million, net of underwriting discounts, fees and other expenses of approximately $4.4 million related to the transaction, and the sale of 3.6 million shares of common stock in September 2003 at a price of $13.00 per share resulting in net proceeds of approximately $43.9 million, net of underwriting discounts, fees and other expenses of approximately $2.9 million related to the transaction. This increase in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities is partially offset by the use of funds to fund our operations, including prepaid manufacturing costs to reserve commercial manufacturing capacity, and capital equipment investments. During the year ended July 31, 2004, we invested $3.1 million in property, plant and equipment to support our research and development efforts. We anticipate our research and development expense will increase generally for the foreseeable future to support our clinical and manufacturing development of our product candidates. We anticipate that our existing capital resources together with the anticipated funding from our revised collaboration with P&G, as well as the addition of our interest and investment income earned on available cash and marketable securities should provide us adequate resources to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements as currently planned for at least the next twenty four months. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at July 31, 2004 and the effect such obligations and commercial commitments are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future fiscal years. These do not include milestones and assume non termination of agreements. These obligations, commitments and supporting arrangements represent payments based on current operating forecasts, which are subject to change ($ amounts in millions): 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 andthereafter Contractual obligations: Note payable $ 3.9 $ $ $ $ $ Subordinated convertible notes 120.0 Interest expense 6.9 6.9 6.9 Operating leases 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.0 1.9 4.1 Total contractual obligations $ 13.1 $ 9.3 $ 129.4 $ 2.0 $ 1.9 $ 4.1 Commercial commitments: Clinical and manufacturing development $ 70.0 $ 32.4 $ 23.9 $ 23.4 $ 20.8 $ Licenses 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.3 Research and development 0.3 0.1 Total commercial commitments $ 70.7 $ 32.8 $ 24.3 $ 23.7 $ 21.1 $ 36 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations include our $120 million of convertible subordinated notes due March 2007, our annual payments of approximately $2.3 million for operating leases, principally for facilities and equipment, and, an open letter of credit of $200,000 which serves as a security deposit on our facility in Cheshire, Connecticut. In addition, CFC is the payor under a $3.9 million note. Note Payable In February 1999, CFC purchased substantially all of the assets of the UniGraft xenotransplantation program, including principally, land, buildings and laboratory equipment, from its then partner in the program, U.S. Surgical Corporation, now a division of Tyco International, Ltd., or Tyco. The purchase was financed through the issuance by CFC of a $3.9 million note payable to Tyco. Interest on the $3.9 million note payable, at 6% per annum, is payable quarterly by CFC. The xenotransplantation manufacturing assets of CFC that were purchased from Tyco, including the real estate, are pledged as security for this note. Upon CFCs failure to make its quarterly interest payment due to Tyco in August 2003, CFC defaulted on the note. We continue to recognize CFCs interest expense on the note payable as such obligations have not been discharged. In the quarter ended October 31, 2003, in conjunction with the event of default, we notified Tyco that the UniGraft xenotransplantation program and CFC activities had been terminated. CFC is seeking to liquidate itself to fulfill its debt obligation in whole or in part. CFC further notified Tyco that it does not have the funds or assets to satisfy the $3.9 million note and unpaid interest. During the quarter ended January 31, 2004, we and Tyco initiated a plan to sell or liquidate CFCs assets in their present condition. We anticipate that Tyco will retain the proceeds from the sale of CFCs assets and will discharge the note and unpaid interest. In August 2004, a written offer of $450,000 was accepted by Tyco for CFCs assets. We used the accepted offer as the basis for determining the fair market value of CFCs assets and accordingly, we have written down the fair market value of these assets from $1.2 million to $450,000 as of July 31, 2004. Since CFCs assets, consisting of property, plant and equipment, are insufficient to satisfy the $3.9 million note and unpaid interest, and other obligations of CFC, we expect the unpaid amount of the note and interest will be discharged debt, recognized as other income in fiscal 2005 to CFC. Subordinated Convertible Notes Interest on our $120 million 5.75% convertible subordinated notes due March 15, 2007 is payable semi annually in September and March of each year. The holders may convert all or a portion of the notes into common stock any time on or before March 15, 2007 at a conversion price of $106.425 per common share. Beginning March 20, 2003, we may redeem some or all of the notes per the declining redemption prices listed for the notes. We may also elect to pay the repurchase price for some or all the notes in cash or common stock. We may, from time to time, depending on market conditions, repurchase some of our outstanding convertible debt for cash, exchange debt for shares of our common stock, preferred stock, debt or other consideration, or a combination of any of the foregoing. If we exchange shares of our capital stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for our capital stock, for outstanding convertible debt, the number of shares that we might issue as a result of such exchanges would significantly exceed that number of shares originally issuable upon conversion of such debt and, accordingly, such exchanges could result in material dilution to holders of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will repurchase or exchange any outstanding convertible debt. Operating Leases Our operating leases are principally for facilities and equipment. We lease our headquarters and research 37 Table of Contents and development facility in Cheshire, Connecticut. The lease has an initial term expiring in December 2010. At this site, we lease a total of 89,000 square feet of space, which includes approximately 69,000 square feet related to research and laboratories. We have incurred costs relating to initial leasehold improvements aggregating approximately $8.3 million. In addition, we are paying a pro rata percentage of real estate taxes and operating expenses. Our pilot manufacturing plant, which may be used for producing compounds for some of our current and anticipated clinical trials, is expected to remain in New Haven, Connecticut and encompasses approximately 33,000 square feet of labs and offices. The lease in New Haven has an initial term ending in October 2007 with three options to extend of one year each. We believe our research and development facilities and our pilot manufacturing facility, together with third party manufacturing facilities, will be adequate for our current ongoing activities. Alexion Antibody Technologies, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, leases approximately 25,000 square feet of labs, office space and unimproved storage in San Diego, California. The lease expires in August 2012. Commercial Commitments Our commercial commitments consist of cancelable research and development, licenses, operations, clinical development including clinical trials, and manufacturing cost commitments along with anticipated supporting arrangements, subject to certain limitations and cancellation clauses. The timing and level of our commercial scale manufacturing costs (assuming we utilize our long term commercial scale product manufacturing capacity), which may or may not be realized, are contingent upon our clinical development programs progress as well as our commercialization plans. Our commercial commitments are represented principally by our agreement with Lonza Biologics, PLC and our collaboration with P&G Pharmaceuticals. Lonza Agreement The Large Scale Product Supply Agreement dated December 18, 2002, or the Lonza Agreement, between Lonza Biologics PLC, or Lonza, and us, relating to the manufacture of our product candidate eculizumab, was amended, or the Lonza Amendment, in April 2004. Under the Lonza Amendment, the facility in which Lonza will manufacture eculizumab is changed; the manufacturing capacity we are required to purchase is reduced; and future potential payments of $10 million by us to Lonza relating to achievement of eculizumab sales milestones and of up to $15 million payable by us relating to manufacturing yields achieved by Lonza are eliminated. In August 2004 we paid Lonza an additional $3.5 million as a non refundable advance under the Lonza Amendment. In addition, the amounts we would be required to pay in connection with a voluntary termination of the Lonza Agreement by us have been changed. Under the Lonza Agreement, as amended by the Lonza Amendment, if we terminate the Lonza Agreement on or prior to September 30, 2006, we may be required to pay different amounts, depending on when the Lonza Agreement is terminated, which are between zero and approximately $10 million and, if we terminate the Lonza Agreement after September 30, 2006, we may be required to pay for batches of product scheduled for manufacture up to 12 months following termination. P&G Pharmaceuticals Collaboration In December 2001, we and P&G entered into a binding memorandum of understanding, or MOU, pursuant to which the January 1999 collaboration was revised. Under the revised structure per the MOU, we and P&G share decision making and responsibility for all future U.S. development and commercialization costs for pexelizumab, including clinical, manufacturing, marketing, and sales efforts. The revised collaboration per the MOU provides that we and P&G each incur approximately 50% of all Phase III clinical trial, product development and manufacturing, and commercialization costs necessary for the potential approval and marketing of pexelizumab in the U.S. and that we will receive approximately 50% of the gross margin on U.S. sales, if any. P&G agreed to retain responsibility for future development and commercialization costs outside the U.S., with us receiving a royalty on sales outside the U.S., if any. We are responsible for royalties on certain third party intellectual property worldwide, if such intellectual property is necessary. Additionally, as part of the MOU, we will receive milestone payments for achieving specified development steps, regulatory filings and approvals. 38 Table of Contents We and P&G have agreed, as per the MOU, that we will share concurrently 50% of the ongoing U.S. pre production and development manufacturing costs for pexelizumab as well as any AMI or CABG Phase III clinical trial costs. P&G has the right to terminate the collaboration or sublicense its rights at any time. If P&G terminates the collaboration, as per the MOU, P&G is required to contribute its share of agreed to obligations and costs incurred prior to the termination, but may not be required to contribute towards obligations incurred after termination. In such circumstance all rights and the exclusive license to our intellectual property related to pexelizumab would revert back to us and we would be entitled to all future pexelizumab revenues, if any, without any sharing of revenues, if any, with P&G. If P&G were to sublicense its rights, the sublicensee would be required to assume all of P&Gs obligations under the collaboration. We rely on P&G for the development, manufacture and potential commercialization of pexelizumab. Termination of our agreement by P&G or sublicense of its collaboration rights could cause significant delays in the development, manufacture and potential commercialization of pexelizumab and result in significant additional costs to us. Under terms of our MOU we may be obligated to reimburse P&G for 50% of cancellation costs under P&Gs third party pexelizumab manufacturing contract. Our portion of those cancellation costs could amount to as much as $9.8 million. Additional Payments Additional payments, aggregating up to $24 million, would be required if we elect to continue development under our current pre clinical development programs and if specified development milestones are reached (including achievement of commercialization). Approximately $3 million of these costs may be incurred in the next three years. Taxes For tax reporting purposes, as of July 31, 2004, we had approximately $319.9 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards, which expire through 2024 (of which approximately $19.6 million resulted from the exercise of nonqualified stock options) and $14.6 million of tax credit carryforwards, which expire commencing in fiscal 2008. Provisions of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 may limit our ability to utilize net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in any given year if certain events occur, including a provision relating to cumulative changes in ownership interests in excess of 50% over a three year period. We believe that we have triggered these limitation provisions. Recently issued accounting standards In November 2003, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on EITF Issue No. 03 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments, regarding the issue of disclosures for marketable securities and debt securities accounted for under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. The EITF requires additional quantitative disclosure related to unrealized losses, specifically presentation of the aging of such losses. It also requires additional qualitative disclosures to help users understand why the quantitative disclosures are not other than temporarily impaired. The adoption of these disclosure requirements are effective for companies with fiscal years ending after December 15, 2003. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on either our operating results or financial position. In December 2003, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104 (SAB 104), Revenue Recognition, which supercedes SAB 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements. SAB 104s primary purpose is to rescind accounting guidance contained in SAB 101 related to multiple element revenue arrangements, superceded as a result of the issuance of EITF 00 21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple 39 Table of Contents Deliverables. The issuance of SAB 104 reflects the concepts contained in EITF 00 21; the other revenue recognition concepts contained in SAB 101 remain unchanged. The issuance of SAB 104 did not have a material impact on our operating results or financial position. In April 2004, the EITF reached consensus on EITF Issue No. 03 6, Participating Securities and the Two Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128 (EITF 03 6). EITF 03 6 addresses a number of questions regarding the computation of earnings per share by companies that have issued securities other than common stock that contractually entitle the holder to participate in dividends and earnings of the company when, and if, it declares dividends on its common stock. EITF 03 6 also provides further guidance in applying the two class method of calculating earnings per share, clarifying what constitutes a participating security and how to apply the two class method of computing earnings per share once it is determined that a security is participating, including how to allocate undistributed earnings to such a security. EITF 03 6 is effective for fiscal periods beginning after March 31, 2004 and requires retroactive restatement of prior earnings per share amounts. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on either our operating results or financial position. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors before you decide to invest in our Company and our business because these risk factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. The risk and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations. We have incurred losses since we started our company in January 1992. As of July 31, 2004, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $339 million. If we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. Since we began our business, we have focused on research and development of product candidates. We have no products that are available for sale and do not know when we will have products available for sale, if ever. We expect to continue to operate at a net loss for at least the next several years as we continue our research and development efforts, continue to conduct clinical trials and develop manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Our future profitability depends on our receiving regulatory approval of our product candidates and our ability to successfully manufacture and market approved drugs. The extent and the timing of our future losses and our profitability, if we are ever profitable, are highly uncertain. We are subject to extensive government regulation; if we do not obtain regulatory approval for our drug products, we will not be able to sell our drug products. We and our partners cannot sell or market our drugs without regulatory approval. If we or our partners do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products, the value of our company and our results of operations will be harmed. In the United States, we or our partners must obtain and maintain approval from the FDA for each drug that we intend to sell. Obtaining FDA approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. Foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed outside the United States, whose approval can also be lengthy, expensive and highly uncertain. None of our product candidates has received regulatory approval to be marketed and sold in the United States or any other country. We may not receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates for at least the next several years, if ever. We and our partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the FDA, other federal and state agencies, and governmental authorities in other countries. These regulations apply both before and after approval of our product candidates, if our product candidates are ever approved, and cover, 40 Table of Contents among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, and export of biologics. Failure to comply with the laws, including statutes and regulations, administered by the FDA or other agencies could result in administrative and judicial sanctions, including, warning letters; fines and other civil penalties; delay in approving or refusal to approve a product candidate; product recall or seizure; interruption of production; operating restrictions; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. The FDA has granted fast track status for pexelizumab for use during CPB and for treatment of AMI, and for eculizumab in treatment of membranous nephritis. Although fast track status may expedite development and FDA review of an application, there can be no assurance that pexelizumab or eculizumab will be reviewed more expeditiously for their fast track indications than would otherwise have been the case or will be approved promptly, or at all. Further, the FDA could revoke fast track status for pexelizumab or eculizumab. The FDA has granted orphan drug designation for eculizumab in the treatment of PNH and membranous nephritis. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the FDA review and approval process. If a product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for a period of seven years, except in limited circumstances. If our drug trials are delayed or achieve unfavorable results, we will have to delay or may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for our products. We must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates before we can obtain regulatory approval for our products. We need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and clinical human trials. These tests and trials may not achieve favorable results. We would need to reevaluate any drug that did not test favorably and either alter the study, the drug or the dose and perform additional or repeat tests, or abandon the drug development project. In those circumstances, we would not be able to obtain regulatory approval on a timely basis, if ever. Even if approval is granted, the approval may require limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. Clinical trials completed to date have not achieved their primary endpoints. In December 1999, we completed a Phase IIb trial of pexelizumab for the treatment of complications in patients after CABG with CPB including the reduction of the frequency and severity of myocardial infarctions and frequency of death. The primary therapeutic pre set goal of the trial, referred to as the primary endpoint, was not achieved. However, in the pre specified population that included approximately 90% of the patient population, (i.e. the 800 patients who had CABG surgery without valve surgery), those that received pexelizumab at the highest dose level experienced a statistically significant reduction in larger post surgical heart attacks. Based on these results, in January 2002, we commenced enrollment of a Phase III clinical trial of pexelizumab in patients undergoing CABG with CPB. We completed the target patient enrollment of approximately 3,000 patients in February 2003. In August 2003, we disclosed preliminary results that indicated that the primary endpoint was not achieved with statistical significance. The primary endpoint in this Phase III trial was a composite of the incidence of death or myocardial infarction, measured at 30 days post procedure, in patients undergoing CABG without simultaneous valve surgery. We have concluded two Phase II studies with pexelizumab in AMI: one study in patients receiving angioplasty, a procedure for opening up narrowed or blocked arteries that supply blood to the heart, and the other in patients receiving thrombolytic therapy, a procedure for dissolving clots that block heart vessels. The angioplasty study, called COMMA, and the thrombolytic study, called COMPLY, completed patient enrollment in April 2002 and January 2002, respectively. Results from both studies were reported at the November 2002 annual meeting of the American Heart Association. In both studies, the primary endpoint of a reduction of myocardial infarction, was not reached; however in the COMMA study, pexelizumab treatment was associated with a statistically significant, dose dependent reduction in death. 41 Table of Contents In 2001, we announced the completion of a Phase IIa trial of eculizumab for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, or RA. The primary endpoint for this trial was met by the group of patients who received the mid level, monthly dosing regimen of eculizumab, but patients who received higher or lower doses of eculizumab in the clinical trial did not achieve the primary endpoint. The primary endpoint in this Phase IIa trial was ACR 20 at 3.25 months. In January 2004, we announced preliminary results of a Phase IIb study of eculizumab in approximately 350 RA patients. Results of the trial indicate that the primary endpoint was achieved with statistical significance in the one of the dosing regimens (the monthly dosing arm), but not in the higher, bimonthly dosing arm. Completion of these and other trials does not guarantee that we will initiate additional trials for our product candidates, that if the trials are initiated what the scope and phase of the trial will be or that they will be completed, or that if the trials are completed, the results will provide a sufficient basis to proceed with further trials or to apply for or receive regulatory approvals or to commercialize products. Results of trials could be inconclusive, requiring additional or repeat trials. If the results achieved in our clinical trials are insufficient to proceed to further trials or to regulatory approval of our product candidates our company could be materially adversely affected. Failure of a trial to achieve its pre specified primary endpoint generally increases the likelihood that additional studies will be required if we determine to continue development of the product candidate, and reduces the likelihood of timely development of and regulatory approval to market the product candidate. There are many reasons why drug testing could be delayed or terminated. For human trials, patients must be recruited and each product candidate must be tested at various doses and formulations for each clinical indication. Also, to ensure safety and effectiveness, the effect of drugs often must be studied over a long period of time, especially for the chronic diseases that we are studying. Unfavorable results or insufficient patient enrollment in our clinical trials could delay or cause us to abandon a product development program. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical trials include: slow patient enrollment; long treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness; lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate; adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; the failure of patients taking the placebo to continue to participate in our clinical trials; lack of effectiveness of the product candidate being tested; and lack of sufficient funds. We may expand our business through new acquisitions that could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. Our business strategy includes expanding our products and capabilities, and we may seek acquisitions to do so. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: substantial cash expenditures; 42 Table of Contents potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities; incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to identify at the time of acquisition; difficulties in assimilating the operations of the acquired companies; diverting our managements attention away from other business concerns; risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; and the potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies. We cannot assure you that any acquisition will result in short term or long term benefits to us. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. In addition, our future success would depend in part on our ability to manage the rapid growth associated with some of these acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make the combination of our business with that of acquired businesses or companies work or be successful. Furthermore, the development or expansion of our business or any acquired business or companies may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have these necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise funds by selling shares of our stock, which could dilute current stockholders ownership interest in our company, or securities convertible into our stock, which could dilute current stockholders ownership interest in our company upon conversion. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to continue or complete our product development. We believe we have sufficient capital to fund our operations and product development for at least twenty four months. We may need to raise additional capital before or after that time to complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We are currently conducting or initiating several clinical trials. Funding needs may shift between programs and potentially accelerate and increase if we initiate new pivotal trials for our product candidates, including any pivotal clinical trial of pexelizumab for AMI patients undergoing angioplasty. We rely heavily on P&G to fund development of pexelizumab. If P&G were to terminate the pexelizumab collaboration, we could have to raise additional capital or find new collaboration partners in order to continue the development of pexelizumab. Additional financing could take the form of public or private debt or equity offerings, equity line facilities, bank loans, collaborative research and development arrangements with corporate partners and or the sale or licensing of some of our property. The amount of capital we may need depends on many factors, including: the existence, terms and status of collaborative arrangements and strategic partnerships, such as our collaboration with P&G; the progress, timing and scope of our research and development programs; the progress, timing and scope of our preclinical studies and clinical trials; the time and cost necessary to obtain regulatory approvals; the time and cost necessary to further develop manufacturing processes, arrange for contract manufacturing or build manufacturing facilities and obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for those f facilities; 43 Table of Contents the time and cost necessary to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; the cost necessary to sell, market and distribute our products, if any are approved; changes in applicable governmental regulatory policies; and any new collaborative, licensing and other commercial relationships that we may establish. We may not get funding when we need it or funding may only be available on unfavorable terms. If we cannot raise adequate funds to satisfy our capital requirements, we may have to delay, scale back or eliminate our research and development activities or future operations. We might have to license our technology to others. This could result in sharing revenues that we might otherwise retain for ourselves. Any of these actions would harm our business. We are significantly leveraged. We currently have outstanding $120 million principal amount of 5 3/4% convertible subordinated notes. The degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: make it difficult for us to make payments on our notes; make it difficult for us to obtain financing for working capital acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If our collaboration with P&G is terminated or P&G reduces its commitment to our collaboration, our ability to develop and commercialize pexelizumab in the time expected, or at all, and our business would be harmed. We rely heavily on P&G to perform development, obtain commercial manufacturing, and provide sales and marketing for pexelizumab. While we cannot assure you that pexelizumab will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if P&G does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to commercialize pexelizumab will be significantly adversely affected. We rely on P&G to provide funding and additional resources for the development and commercialization of pexelizumab. These include funds and resources for: clinical development and clinical and commercial manufacturing; obtaining regulatory approvals; and sales, marketing and distribution efforts worldwide. P&G has the right to terminate the collaboration or sublicense its collaboration rights at any time. Termination of our agreement with P&G would cause significant delays in the development of pexelizumab and result in significant additional development costs to us. If we were to continue development of pexelizumab following termination by P&G, we would need to fund the development and commercialization of pexelizumab on our own or identify a new development partner. We would need to develop or acquire replacement expertise in 44 Table of Contents many areas necessary for the development and potential commercialization of pexelizumab, or enter into agreements with other companies with respect to those matters. We do not have the resources to replace some of the functions provided or funded by P&G. Accordingly, we might have to stop the development of pexelizumab or shift resources from other product development programs until alternative resources were obtained. Sublicense by P&G also could cause significant delays in the development of pexelizumab and result in substantial additional development costs to us. We might also have to repeat testing already completed with P&G. In addition, sublicense would introduce a new collaboration partner which could create new and additional risks to the development of pexelizumab that cannot be identified at this time. We cannot guarantee that P&G will devote the resources necessary to successfully develop and commercialize pexelizumab in a timely manner, if at all. Furthermore, P&G may devote the necessary resources, but we may still not successfully develop and commercialize pexelizumab. If we are unable to engage and retain third party collaborators, our research and development efforts may be delayed. We depend upon third party collaborators to assist us in the development of our product candidates. If any of our existing collaborators breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development work under an agreement in a timely manner, or at all, we would experience significant delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates. We would also experience significant delays if we could not engage additional collaborators when required. In either event, we would be required to devote additional funds or other resources to these activities or to terminate them. This would divert funds or other resources from other parts of our business. We cannot assure you that: current collaboration arrangements will be continued in their current form; we will be able to negotiate acceptable collaborative agreements to develop or commercialize our product candidates; any arrangements with third parties will be successful; or current or potential collaborators will not pursue treatments for other diseases or seek other ways of developing treatments for our disease targets. If the trading price of our common stock continues to fluctuate in a wide range, our stockholders will suffer considerable uncertainty with respect to an investment in our stock. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. Factors such as announcements of fluctuations in our or our competitors operating results or clinical or scientific results, fluctuations in the trading prices or business prospects of our competitors and collaborators, including, but not limited to P&G, changes in our prospects, and market conditions for biotechnology stocks in general could have a significant impact on the future trading prices of our common stock and our convertible subordinated notes. In particular, the trading price of the common stock of many biotechnology companies, including ours, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have at times been unrelated to the operating performance of the companies whose stocks were affected. This is due to several factors, including general market conditions, the announcement of the results of our clinical trials or product development and the results of our attempts to obtain FDA approval for our products. In particular, since August 1, 1999, the sales price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $9.05 per share to a high of $119.88 per share. While we cannot predict our future performance, if our stock price continues to fluctuate in a wide range, an investment in our stock may result in considerable uncertainty for an investor. 45 Table of Contents If we cannot protect the confidentiality and proprietary nature of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position will be harmed. Our business requires using sensitive technology, techniques and proprietary compounds that we protect as trade secrets. However, since we are a small company, we also rely heavily on collaboration with suppliers, outside scientists and other drug companies. Collaboration presents a strong risk of exposing our trade secrets. If our trade secrets were exposed, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business prospects. In order to protect our drugs and technology more effectively, we need to obtain patents covering the drugs and technologies we develop. We may obtain patents through ownership or license. Our drugs are expensive and time consuming to test and develop. Without patent protection, competitors may copy our methods, or the chemical structure or other aspects of our drugs. Even if we obtain patents, the patents may not be broad enough to protect our drugs from copycat products. If we are found to be infringing on patents owned by others, we may be forced to pay damages to the patent owner and obtain a license to continue the manufacture, sale or development of our drugs and or pay damages. If we cannot obtain a license, we may be prevented from the manufacture, sale or development of our drugs. Parts of our, including our in licensed, technology, techniques and proprietary compounds and potential drug candidates may conflict with patents owned by or granted to others. If we cannot resolve these conflicts, we may be liable for damages, be required to obtain costly licenses or be stopped from manufacturing, using or selling our products or conducting other activities. For example, we are aware of broad patents owned by others relating to the manufacture, use and sale of recombinant humanized antibodies, recombinant humanized single chain antibodies, recombinant human antibodies, and recombinant human single chain antibodies. Many of our product candidates are genetically engineered antibodies, including recombinant humanized antibodies, recombinant humanized single chain antibodies, recombinant human antibodies, and recombinant human single chain antibodies. We have received notices from the owners of some of these patents claiming that their patents may be relevant to the development, manufacture or sale of some of our drug candidates, including pexelizumab and eculizumab. In response to some of these notices, we have obtained licenses, or expect to obtain licenses. However, with regard to other patents, we have either determined in our judgment that: our products do not infringe the patents; we do not believe the patents are valid; or we have identified and are testing various modifications that we believe should not infringe the patents and which should permit commercialization of our product candidates. Any patent holders could sue us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling or developing our drugs. Legal disputes can be costly and time consuming to defend. If any patent holder successfully challenges our judgment that our products do not infringe their patents or that their patents are invalid, we could be required to pay costly damages or to obtain a license to sell or develop our drugs. A required license may be costly or may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in a patent infringement action; will be able to obtain a license to any third party patent on commercially reasonable terms; successfully develop non infringing alternatives on a timely basis; or license alternative non infringing technology, if any exists, on commercially reasonable terms. Any impediment to our ability to manufacture or sell approved forms of our product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. 46 Table of Contents If the testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of drugs for use in humans exposes us to product liability risks. Side effects and other problems from using our products could give rise to product liability claims against us. We might have to recall our products, if any, from the marketplace. Some of these risks are unknown at this time. In addition, we may be sued by people who participate in our trials. A number of patients who participate in such trials are already very ill when they enter the trial. Any informed consents or waivers obtained from people who sign up for our trials may not protect us from liability or litigation. Our product liability insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any covered liabilities. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. In addition, negative publicity relating to a product liability claim may make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to recruit patients for our clinical trials or to market and sell our products. As a result of these factors, a product liability claim, even if successfully defended, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Use of C5 Inhibitors, such as pexelizumab and eculizumab, is associated with an increased risk for infection with Neisseria bacteria. One patient in our trials of eculizumab for the treatment of membranous nephritis became infected with Neisseria bacteria. Serious cases of Neisseria infection can result in brain damage, loss of limbs or parts of limbs, kidney failure, or death. We are subject to the environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including the handling and disposal of non hazardous and hazardous wastes, including medical and biological wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment, including air, soils and water sources. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating its property or locations to which wastes were sent from its facilities, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or necessarily caused, the contamination. Such obligations and liabilities, which to date have not been material, could have a material impact on our business and financial condition. If we cannot manufacture our drug candidates in sufficient amounts at acceptable costs and on a timely basis, we may be unable to have the necessary materials for product testing, and later for potential sale in the market. Either event would harm our business. For our drug trials, we need to produce sufficient amounts of product for testing. Our small manufacturing plant cannot manufacture enough of our product candidates for later stage clinical development or commercial supply. In addition, we do not have the capacity to produce more than one product candidate at a time. We depend on a few outside suppliers for manufacturing. If we experience interruptions in the manufacture of our products, our drug development and commercialization efforts will be delayed. If any of our outside manufacturers stops manufacturing our products or reduces the amount manufactured, or is otherwise unable to manufacture our required amounts at our required quality, we will need to find other alternatives. If we are unable to find an acceptable outside manufacturer on reasonable terms, we will have to divert our own resources to manufacturing, which may not be sufficient to produce the necessary quantity or quality of product. As a result, our ability to conduct testing and drug trials and our plans for commercialization would be materially adversely affected. Submission of products and new development programs for regulatory approval, as well as our plans for commercialization, would be delayed. Our competitive position and our prospects for achieving profitability would be materially and adversely affected. 47 Table of Contents Manufacture of drug products, including the need to develop and utilize manufacturing processes that consistently produce our drug products to their required quality specifications, is highly regulated by the FDA and other domestic and foreign authorities. We cannot assure you that we or our third party collaborators will successfully comply with all of those regulations, which failure would have a materially adverse effect on our business. Manufacture of our drug products is highly technical and only a few third parties have the ability and capacity to manufacture our drug products for our development and commercialization needs. We can not assure you that these potential third party collaborators will agree to manufacture our products on our behalf on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we do achieve agreement from one or more third parties to manufacture our drug products, we can not assure you that they will be able or willing to honor the terms of the agreements, including any obligations to manufacture the drug products in accordance with regulatory requirements and to our quality specifications and volume requirements. Due to the highly technical requirements of manufacturing our drug products, our third party collaborators and we may be unable to manufacture our drug products despite their and our efforts. Inability to contract with third party manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms, or failure or delay by our third party manufacturers, if any, in manufacturing our drug products in the volumes and quality required, would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have no experience or capacity for manufacturing drug products in volumes that would be necessary to support commercial sales. If we are unable to establish and maintain commercial scale manufacturing within our planned time and cost parameters, sales of our products and our financial performance would be adversely affected. Currently, we are relying on P&G to retain appropriate commercial manufacturing for pexelizumab through one or more third party manufacturers. P&G has contracted with one third party manufacturer for the large scale commercial manufacture of pexelizumab. The failure of P&G to obtain appropriate commercial manufacturing for pexelizumab on a timely basis, or at all, may prevent or impede the commercialization of pexelizumab. We have executed a large scale product supply agreement with Lonza Biologics, plc for the long term manufacture of eculizumab. The failure of Lonza to manufacture appropriate supplies of eculizumab on a timely basis, or at all, may prevent or impede the commercialization of eculizumab. Due to the nature of the current market for third party commercial manufacturing arrangements, many arrangements require substantial penalty payments by the customer for failure to use the manufacturing capacity contracted for. We could owe substantial penalty payments to Lonza if we were not to use the manufacturing capacity we contracted for, and we could be required to share on an equal basis with P&G substantial penalty payments owed by P&G for its failure to utilize the manufacturing capacity it contracted for with third party manufacturers for the supply of pexelizumab. The payment of a substantial penalty would harm our financial condition. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future drug products. We have no sales or distribution personnel or capabilities. We have only recently established core pre commercial marketing capabilities. If we are unable to continue developing those capabilities, either by developing our own capabilities or entering into agreements with others, we will not be able to successfully sell our future drug products. In that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need. We may not be able to enter into any marketing or distribution agreements with third party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. Currently, we are relying on P&G for sales, marketing and distribution of pexelizumab. P&G, or any future third party collaborators, may not succeed at selling, marketing or distributing any of our future drug products. 48 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain reimbursement for our future products from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, our products may be too costly for regular use and our ability to generate revenues would be harmed. Our products, if commercialized, may be significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments. Our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if we cannot depend on governmental and private third party payors to defray the cost of our products to the consumer. If these entities refuse to provide reimbursement with respect to our products or determine to provide an insufficient level of reimbursement, our products may be too costly for general use. Our profitability may be adversely impacted if we choose to offer our products at a reduced price. Any limitation on the use of our products or any decrease in the price of our products without a corresponding decrease in expenses will have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve profitability. If our competitors get to the marketplace before we do with better or cheaper drugs, our drugs may not be profitable to sell or to continue to develop. Each of Abbott Laboratories Inc., Adprotech Ltd., Avant Immunotherapeutics, Inc., Baxter International, Inc., Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Neurogen Corporation, Tanox, Inc., and XOMA, Ltd. have publicly announced their intentions to develop drugs which target the inflammatory effects of complement in the immune system. We are also aware that GlaxoSmithKline, plc, Merck & Co., Inc., and Pfizer, Inc. are also attempting to develop complement inhibitor therapies. Each of Cambridge Antibody Technology Group, plc, MorphoSys AG and Dyax Corporation has publicly announced intentions to develop therapeutic human antibodies from libraries of human antibody genes. Additionally, each of Abgenix, Inc. and Medarex, Inc. has publicly announced intentions to develop therapeutic human antibodies from mice that have been bred to include some human antibody genes. These and other pharmaceutical companies, many of which have significantly greater resources than we, may develop, manufacture and market better or cheaper drugs than our product candidates. They may establish themselves in the marketplace before we are able even to finish our clinical trials. Other pharmaceutical companies also compete with us to attract academic research institutions as drug development partners, including for licensing these institutions proprietary technology. If our competitors successfully enter into such arrangements with academic institutions, we will be precluded from pursuing those unique opportunities and may not be able to find equivalent opportunities elsewhere. If we fail to recruit and retain personnel, our research and product development programs may be delayed. We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and scientific personnel, particularly Dr. Leonard Bell, M.D., our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors, David W. Keiser, our President, Chief Operating Officer and a member of our Board of Directors, and Stephen P. Squinto, Ph.D., our Executive Vice President and Head of Research. There is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientific and technical personnel. Since our business is very science oriented and specialized, we need to continue to attract and retain such people. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business. We have a key man life insurance policy for Dr. Bell and employment agreements with Dr. Bell, Mr. Keiser and Dr. Squinto. None of our key personnel is nearing retirement age or to our knowledge, planning to retire. To our knowledge, there is no tension between any of our key personnel and the Board of Directors. If we lose the services of our management and scientific personnel and fail to recruit other scientific and technical personnel, our research and product development programs will be materially and adversely affected. In particular, we highly value the services of Dr. Bell, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of his services could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our development objectives. 49 Table of Contents Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited if there is a change in ownership of Alexion. As of July 31, 2004, we had approximately $320 million of net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, available to reduce taxable income in future years. We believe that some of these NOLs are currently subject to an annual limitation under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Our ability to utilize our NOLs may be further limited if we undergo an ownership change, as defined in section 382, as a result of subsequent changes in the ownership of our outstanding stock. We would undergo an ownership change if, among other things, the stockholders, or group of stockholders, who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the value of our stock, or are otherwise treated as 5% stockholders under section 382 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, increase their aggregate percentage ownership of our stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of our stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three year period preceding the potential ownership change. In the event of an ownership change, section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre ownership change NOLs. The limitation imposed by section 382 for any post change year would be determined by multiplying the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change (subject to certain adjustments) by the applicable long term tax exempt rate. Any unused limitation may be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built in gains which may be present with respect to assets held by us at the time of the ownership change that are recognized in the five year period after the ownership change. Our use of NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected. We do not believe that we experienced a change in ownership within the meaning of section 382 as a result of the offering of our common stock on July 30, 2004. However, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service could not successfully challenge our conclusion. Even if the offering of our common stock did not cause an ownership change to occur immediately, the issuance, directly or indirectly, of a relatively large number of shares in that offering may mean that we may not be able to engage in transactions involving the issuance or deemed issuance of stock within the subsequent three year period without triggering an ownership change within the meaning of section 382. In addition, there are circumstances beyond our control, such as market purchases of our stock by investors who are existing 5% shareholders, or become 5% shareholders as a result of such purchases, which could result in an ownership change with respect to our stock. Thus, there can be no assurance that our future actions, or future actions by our stockholders, will not result in the occurrence of an ownership change, which may limit our use of the NOLs and negatively affect future cash flows. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. As part of our investment portfolio we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. The investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development activities. Our short term investments and investments consist of U.S. Government obligations, high grade corporate notes and commercial paper. All of our investments in debt securities are classified as available for sale and are recorded at fair value. Our investments are subject to interest rate risk, and could decline in value if interest rates increase. Due to the conservative nature of our short term investments and investments policy we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk. Although our investments are subject to credit risk, our investment policies specify credit quality standards for our investments and limit the amount of credit exposure from any single issue, issuer or type of investment. Our available for sale marketable securities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. Interest rate changes would result in a change in the fair value of these financial instruments due to the difference between the market interest rate and the rate at the date of purchase of the financial instrument. A 10% decrease in year end market interest rates would result in no material impact on the net fair value of such interest sensitive financial instruments. A 10% increase or decrease in market interest rates would result in no material impact on our 5.75% Subordinated Convertible Notes. 50 Table of Contents 
 
