Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. This report contains forward looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Such statements are subject to certain factors which may cause our plans and results to differ significantly from plans and results discussed in forward looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors. Overview We are engaged in the discovery and development of therapeutic products aimed at treating patients with a wide array of severe disease states, including hematologic and cardiovascular disorders, autoimmune diseases and cancer. Since our incorporation in January 1992, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to drug discovery, research, and product and clinical development. Additionally, through our wholly owned subsidiary, Alexion Antibody Technologies, Inc., or AAT, we are engaged in the discovery and development of a portfolio of additional antibody therapeutics targeting severe unmet medical needs. Our two lead product candidates are therapeutic antibodies that address specific diseases that arise when the human immune system produces inflammation in the human body. Antibodies are proteins that bind specifically to selected targets, or antigens, in the body. After the antibody binds to its target, it may activate the bodys immune system against the target, block activities of the target or stimulate activities of the target. We are currently examining our two lead antibody product candidates in a variety of clinical development programs. One product candidate, eculizumab, is in Phase III clinical development for treatment of Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria, or PNH, a chronic hematologic disease; and our second product candidate, pexelizumab, is in clinical development for two distinct acute cardiac indications. We are developing pexelizumab in collaboration with Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals, or P&G, and rely on P&G for the timely development and potential commercialization of pexelizumab. Currently, none of our drug product candidates is available for commercial sale. All of our potential products are in clinical or pre clinical development and the status of each of our lead product candidates is set forth, by indication, in Item 1 of this Report under the heading Product Development Programs. Successful completion of development of a product candidate is contingent on numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors which are described in detail in the section entitled Risk Factors. These factors include: completion of pre clinical and clinical trials of the product candidate with scientific results that support further development and or regulatory approval receipt of necessary regulatory approvals obtaining adequate supplies of product candidates on commercially reasonable terms obtaining capital necessary to fund our operations, including our research and development efforts, manufacturing requirements and clinical trials performance of third party collaborators, particularly Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals, on whom we rely heavily for the co development and commercialization of one of our lead product candidates performance of third party manufacturers, particularly Lonza Biologics, on whom we rely heavily for the manufacture of one of our lead product candidates obtaining manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities for which we presently have limited resources 31 Table of Contents As a result of the amount and nature of these factors, many of which are outside of our control, the success, timing of completion, and ultimate cost, of development of any of our product candidates is highly uncertain and cannot be estimated with any degree of certainty. The timing and cost to complete drug trials alone may be impacted by, among other things, slow patient enrollment; long treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness; lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate; disruption of operations at the clinical trial sites; adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; the failure of patients taking the placebo to continue to participate in our clinical trials; lack of effectiveness of the product candidate being tested; and lack of sufficient funds. If we do not successfully complete clinical trials, we will not receive regulatory approval to market our drug products. If we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products, we will not generate any revenues from the sale of our products and the value of our company and our financial condition and results of operations will be substantially harmed. To date, we have not received any revenues from the sale of products. We have incurred operating losses since our inception. As of July 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $448.1 million. We expect to incur substantial and increasing operating losses for the next several years due to expenses associated with product research and development, pre clinical studies and clinical testing, regulatory activities, manufacturing development, scale up and commercial scale manufacturing, pre commercialization activities, developing a sales and marketing force, and increasing administrative personnel and professional services to support growth of our operations, and we will need to obtain additional financing to cover these costs. We plan to develop and commercialize eculizumab on our own and those product candidates for which the clinical trials and commercialization requirements can be funded and accomplished by our own resources. For those products which require greater resources, such as pexelizumab, our plan is to develop and commercialize the drugs through corporate partnerships. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off balance sheet arrangements and do not guarantee the obligations of any other entity. We do indemnify certain third parties against liabilities they may incur in connection with the manufacturing, development, or sale of our drug candidates. Critical Accounting Policies and the Use of Estimates In our preparation of consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Our estimates are often based on judgments, probabilities and assumptions that we believe are reasonable, but that are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. All of these judgments and estimates can materially impact our result of operations. 32 Table of Contents We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Marketable Securities We invest in marketable debt securities of highly rated financial institutions and investment grade debt instruments and limit the amount of credit exposure with any one entity. Unrealized gains or losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of stockholders equity. We believe that our conservative investment policy ensures reasonable assurance against impairment of marketable securities held, and also enables us to avoid incurring realized losses that could occur if securities were not held to maturity. Long Lived Assets We assess the potential impairment of long lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that we consider important, and which could trigger an impairment review, include, among others, the following: a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long lived asset is being used; a significant adverse change in the business climate that could affect the value of a long lived asset; and a significant decrease in market value of assets. If we determine that the carrying value of long lived assets may not be recoverable, based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of impairment, we will compare the carrying value of the asset group to the undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the group. If the carrying value exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, we will then compare the carrying value of the asset group to its fair value to determine whether an impairment charge is required. If the fair value is less than the carrying value, such amount is recognized as an impairment charge. Goodwill Goodwill represents the difference between the purchase price of acquired businesses and the fair value of their net assets, and is not amortized. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill might not be recoverable. No impairment charge resulted upon the adoption of this standard or as a result of the Companys annual impairment assessment. Prepaid Manufacturing Costs Cash advances paid by us to secure future long term manufacturing production at third party contract manufacturers are recorded as prepaid manufacturing costs. These costs are recognized over the period of manufacturing production on a unit of production method. The cash advances are subject to refund if the manufacturing facility is unavailable as scheduled or forfeiture if we terminate the scheduled production. We evaluate the prepaid manufacturing costs against estimated net realizable value, or NRV. If estimated NRV were to be negative, then all or a portion of the prepaid manufacturing cost may have to be recognized as an expense. Our calculation of NRV involves estimates of expected sales volume, sales price and market penetration of the product in question. Revenue Recognition We record contract research revenues from research and development support payments, license fees and milestone payments under collaborations with third parties, and amounts received from various government grants. We evaluate all deliverables in our collaborative agreements to determine whether they represent separate units of accounting. Deliverables qualify for separate accounting treatment if they have standalone value to the customer and if there is objective evidence of fair value for the undelivered items. 33 Table of Contents Up front, non refundable license fees received in connection with a collaboration agreement are deferred and amortized into revenue over the life of the agreement or underlying technologies. Revenues derived from the achievement of milestones are recognized when the milestone is achieved, provided that the milestone is substantive and a culmination of the earnings process has occurred. Revenues derived from the achievement of milestones or recognition of related work when performed under terms of a contract may cause our operating results to vary considerably from period to period. Research and development support revenues are recognized as the related work is performed and expenses are incurred under the terms of the contracts for development activities. Deferred revenue results from cash received or amounts receivable in advance of revenue recognition under research and development contracts. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses are comprised of costs incurred in performing research and development activities including salaries and benefits, pre clinical, clinical trial and related clinical manufacturing costs, manufacturing development and scale up costs, contract services and other outside contractor costs, research license fees, depreciation and amortization of lab facilities, and lab supplies. Theses costs are expensed when incurred. We have entered into certain research agreements in which we share costs with our collaborator. We record these costs as research and development expenses as incurred. A portion of these costs are reimbursed by our collaborator and are recorded as a reduction of research and development expense. Accrued research and development expenses are comprised of amounts owed to suppliers for research and development work performed on our behalf. At the end of each period, we evaluate the accrued expense balance related to these activities based upon information received from the supplier and estimated progress toward completion of the research or development objectives to ensure that the balance is appropriately stated. Such estimates are subject to change as additional information becomes available. Stock Based Compensation We account for stock options and restricted stock utilizing the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion, or APB, No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and accordingly, recognize no compensation expense for the options when the option grants have an exercise price equal to the fair market value at the date of grant. We believe that it is difficult to accurately measure the value of an employee stock option. Our estimates of employee stock option values rely on estimates of factors we input into the Black Scholes model. The key factors involve an estimate of future uncertain events. Significantly, we use historical volatility to determine the expected stock price volatility factor. Also, of significance, is our expected term until exercise factor. We currently use historical exercise patterns as our best estimate of future exercise patterns. Once employee stock option values are determined, they may not be changed. 34 Table of Contents We continually seek to refine and improve our approach to measure the value of employee stock options. The issuance of SFAS No. 123(R) will significantly change the way we account for grants of stock options. This new pronouncement and its potential impact are discussed in the section titled Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements. Results of Operations A reclassification has been made to the presentation of operating expenses for the twelve months ended July 31, 2003 in order to conform to current year expense classifications. Our Connecticut capital based tax in the prior fiscal year was reclassified from state tax benefit to operating expense. In addition, certain reclassifications have been made to prior year balance sheet items to conform to current year classifications. Fiscal Years Ended July 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 A summary of revenues generated from contract research collaboration and grant awards is as follows (amounts in thousands): 2005 2004 2003 P&G $ 588 $ 4,588 $ 673 U.S. government grants 476 21 204 Total revenues $ 1,064 $ 4,609 $ 877 We earned contract research revenues of $1.1 million, $4.6 million, and $0.9 million for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we recognized a $4 million milestone payment from P&G concurrent with the dosing of our first patient in the APEX AMI trial. Substantially all of the other revenue in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003 is a non cash item representing the amortization of deferred revenue from the $10 million upfront fee paid to us by P&G in February 1999. Revenue from U.S. government grants totaled $476,000 in fiscal 2005, $21,000 in fiscal 2004, and $204,000 in fiscal 2003. The $455,000 increase in revenues associated with U.S. government grants obtained in fiscal 2005 resulted from research under the anti anthrax bio defense program. The $183,000 decrease in revenues associated with U.S. government grants from 2003 to 2004 resulted primarily from the reduction in grant reimbursable billings from our various government grants due to the completion of the related research. During fiscal year 2005, we incurred research and development expenses of $91.4 million. For fiscal years 2004 and 2003, we incurred research and development expenses of $59.8 million and $71.0 million, respectively. We report our research and development costs by category incurred rather than by project. Our research and development costs consist primarily of payroll and benefits costs, pre clinical costs, clinical trial costs and other clinical related development costs, manufacturing development and manufacturing costs, discovery research costs, depreciation and amortization expense, and occupancy related facility operating costs. The following table summarizes the major research and development expense categories for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 respectively (amounts in thousands): 2005 2004 2003 Research and development expenses: Payroll and benefits $ 17,397 $ 14,749 $ 13,613 Clinical development 43,314 20,398 25,122 Manufacturing and manufacturing development 20,835 14,027 17,414 Discovery research 2,431 3,592 8,241 Operating, occupancy, depreciation, and amortization 7,411 7,074 6,652 $ 91,388 $ 59,840 $ 71,042 35 Table of Contents The increase in clinical development expenses from 2004 to 2005 is attributable principally to the cost of conducting our two Phase III clinical trials PRIMO CABG2 and APEX AMI in pexelizumab. The increase in payroll and benefits from 2004 to 2005 is primarily attributable to the increase in staff involved in clinical and manufacturing development as well as regulatory and quality assurance activities. The increase in manufacturing and manufacturing development expenses from 2004 to 2005 is caused largely by increased production of material used in our clinical trials involving eculizumab and pexelizumab. The decrease in discovery research is due principally to recognition of the $1.3 million balance of the non refundable payment received from XOMA. In 2003, XOMA paid an upfront non refundable fee of $1.5 million pursuant to a collaborative agreement. We recorded the payment as a deferred research and development payment and amortized the payment as a reduction of research and development expense. Upon cancellation of the XOMA collaborative agreement in 2005, the remaining balance of $1.3 million was recognized as a reduction of research and development expenses. The $11.2 million decrease in research and development expenses in fiscal 2004 from fiscal 2003 resulted primarily from i) lower clinical development costs of $4.7 million due principally to the completion of the pexelizumab Phase III PRIMO CABG clinical trial; ii) lower costs for discovery research of $4.6 million due to lower external research and license fees and the suspension of the UniGraft program at CFC; and iii) lower manufacturing development and manufacturing activities of $3.4 million resulting from the amended manufacturing agreement with Lonza and the timing related to the manufacture of pexelizumab. These lower expenses are partially offset by increased payroll and benefits costs of approximately $1.1 million and increased occupancy and depreciation costs of $0.4 million. We expect research and development expenses will increase in fiscal 2006 due to, among other things, the completion of the PRIMO CABG2 trial, the continuation of the APEX AMI trial, the completion of the TRIUMPH and SHEPHERD trials and ongoing enrollment into the extension clinical trial with eculizumab in PNH patients. Our general and administrative expenses were $19.0 million, $14.5 million and $10.9 million for fiscal years 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expenses of $4.5 million from 2004 to 2005 was due principally to increased pre commercial activities associated with our two lead product candidates, as well as increased headcount in support of our operations. The increase in general and administrative expenses of $3.6 million in fiscal year 2004 as compared to 2003 was due principally to increased pre commercial and business development activities in support of our PNH clinical trials as well as continued growth of our operations. We believe general and administrative costs will increase in fiscal 2006 as we continue to put in place the structure needed to commercialize pexelizumab and eculizumab. Total operating expenses were $110.3 million, $75.1 million, and $84.5 million for fiscal years 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. 36 Table of Contents Investment income was $5.3 million for fiscal year 2005 compared to $3.4 million for fiscal year 2004 and $5.8 million for fiscal 2003. The increase in investment income of $1.9 million in 2005 resulted primarily from higher interest rates and higher principal amounts. Interest expense was $6.1 million for fiscal year 2005 compared to $7.7 million for fiscal year 2004 and $7.7 million for fiscal 2003. The decrease in interest expense is attributable to the lower interest rate for the 1.375% Notes in fiscal year 2005. We recorded a $3.2 million loss from early extinguishment of the 5.75% Notes, which consisted of the write off of the remaining balance of non refundable deferred financing costs of approximately $1.2 million and the redemption premium of approximately $2.0 million. During the first fiscal quarter of 2005 we recorded a net gain to other income of $3.8 million to complete the termination of the Unigraft xenotransplantation program at Columbus Farming Corporation, or CFC. This consisted of the extinguishment of the $3.9 million note payable used to purchase the xenotransplantation assets and the extinguishment of the accrued interest of $0.3 million on the note, partially offset by the transfer to Tyco International, Ltd., or Tyco, of the remaining assets of $450,000 used to secure the note. (See section entitled Business Other Preclinical Programs Unigraft Xenotransplantation Technologies Program). A state tax benefit of $0.8 million, $0.7 million and $1.0 million was recognized in each of fiscal year 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, resulting from our estimated exchange of our fiscal 2005 and actual exchange of our fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 incremental research and development tax credits. As a result of the above factors, we incurred net losses of $108.8 million, $74.1 million, and $84.5 million or $3.90, $3.43, and $4.64 basic and diluted net loss per share for fiscal years ended July 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception in January 1992, we have financed our operations and capital expenditures principally through private placements of our common and preferred stock, an initial public offering of our common stock and subsequent follow on offerings, the sale of convertible notes, other debt financing, payments received under corporate collaborations and grants, and equipment and leasehold improvements financing. As of July 31, 2005, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaled $195.4 million compared to $266.5 million as of July 31, 2004. At July 31, 2005, our cash and cash equivalents consisted of $47.0 million that we hold in short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than three months. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as compared to July 31, 2004 was due primarily to the redemption of our $120 million 5.75% Notes and the funding of operating activities, partially offset by the sale of our 1.375% Notes for approximately $145.2 million net of financing fees. The net proceeds from the sale of the 1.375% Notes, less the redemption of the 5.75% Notes including the redemption premium, were $23.3 million. During the year ended July 31, 2005, we invested $3.0 million in property, plant and equipment to support our research and development efforts. We anticipate our research and development expense to increase generally for the foreseeable future to support our clinical and manufacturing development of our product candidates. In August 2005, we sold 2,500,000 shares of common stock in a public offering at $26.75 per share, resulting in gross proceeds from the sale of $66.9 million. We incurred underwriting discounts and commissions of $2.1 million or $0.858 per share as well as other expenses, resulting in estimated net proceeds of $64.5 million. 37 Table of Contents We anticipate that our existing capital resources as of July 31, 2005, together with the net proceeds from the August 2005 public offering, as well as the addition of our interest and investment income earned on available cash and marketable securities should provide us adequate resources to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements as currently expected for at least the next 24 months. We may pursue additional stock offerings, debt or other sources of funds to finance our operations. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at July 31, 2005 and the effect such obligations and commercial commitments are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future fiscal years. These do not include milestones and assume non termination of agreements. These obligations, commitments and supporting arrangements represent payments based on current operating forecasts, which are subject to change (amounts in millions): Payments Due by Period Total Less than1 Year 1 3Years 3 5Years More than 5Years Contractual obligations: Convertible senior notes $ 150.0 $ $ $ $ 150.0 Interest expense 14.7 2.1 4.2 6.3 2.1 Operating and capital leases 13.3 2.5 4.7 5.3 0.8 Total contractual obligations $ 178.0 $ 4.6 $ 8.9 $ 11.6 $ 152.9 Commercial commitments: Clinical and manufacturing development $ 99.1 $ 39.2 $ 40.5 $ 19.4 $ Licenses 6.7 2.4 2.8 1.0 0.5 Research and development 0.1 0.1 Total commercial commitments $ 105.9 $ 41.7 $ 43.3 $ 20.4 $ 0.5 Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations include our $150 million 1.375% Convertible Senior Notes due February 2012, or 1.375% Notes, our annual payments of approximately $2.3 million for operating and capital leases, principally for facilities and equipment, and an open letter of credit of $200,000 which serves as a security deposit on our facility in Cheshire, Connecticut. Convertible Senior Notes In January 2005 we sold $150 million principal amount of 1.375% Notes in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The interest rate on the notes is 1.375% per annum on the principal amount from January 25, 2005, payable semi annually in arrears in cash on February 1 and August 1 of each year, beginning August 1, 2005. The 1.375% Notes is convertible into our common stock at an initial conversion rate of 31.7914 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 1.375% Notes, subject to adjustment (equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $31.46 per share). We do not have the right to redeem any of the 1.375% Notes prior to maturity. 38 Table of Contents We do not have financial covenants related to our 1.375% Notes. However, there are certain designated events which could occur such as a liquidation, tender offer, consolidation, merger, recapitalization, or otherwise, in connection with which 50% or more of our common stock is exchanged for, converted into, acquired for or constitutes solely the right to receive, consideration which is not at least 90% common stock that is listed on a U.S. national exchange or market. If the holder elects to convert its 1.375% Notes upon the occurrence of a designated event, the holder will be entitled to receive an additional number of shares of common stock on the conversion date. These additional shares are intended to compensate the holders for the loss of the time value of the conversion option, are set according to a table within the offering document, and are capped (in no event will the shares issuable upon conversion of a note exceed $42.91 per $1,000 principal amount). We incurred deferred financing costs related to this offering of the 1.375% Notes of approximately $4.8 million, which are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet and are being amortized as a component of interest expense over the seven year term of the notes. Capital Leases We currently lease office equipment under capital lease agreements expiring in 2008. The assets and liabilities under capital lease are recorded at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the asset. The assets are amortized over the lower of their related lease terms or their estimated useful lives. The interest rate on the above capital lease is 5.625% and is imputed based on the lower of our incremental borrowing rate at the inception of each lease. Amortization and interest expense for the years ended July 31, 2005 and 2004 was $55,000 and $0, respectively. Operating Leases Our operating leases are principally for facilities and equipment. We lease our headquarters and research and development facility in Cheshire, Connecticut. The lease has an initial term expiring in December 2010. At this site, we lease a total of 89,000 square feet of space. We pay a pro rata percentage of real estate taxes and operating expenses. Our pilot manufacturing plant, which may be used for producing compounds for some of our current and anticipated clinical trials, is expected to remain in New Haven, Connecticut and encompasses approximately 33,000 square feet of labs and offices. The lease in New Haven has an initial term ending in October 2007 with three options to extend for one year each. Alexion Antibody Technologies, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, leases approximately 25,000 square feet of labs, office space and unimproved storage in San Diego, California. The lease expires in August 2012. We believe our research and development facilities and pilot manufacturing facility, together with third party manufacturing facilities, will be adequate for our current ongoing activities. Commercial Commitments Our commercial commitments consist of cancelable research and development, licenses, operations, clinical development including clinical trials, and manufacturing cost commitments along with anticipated supporting arrangements, subject to certain limitations and cancellation clauses. The timing and level of our commercial scale manufacturing costs (assuming we utilize our long term commercial scale product manufacturing capacity), which may or may not be realized, are contingent upon our clinical development programs progress as well as our commercialization plans. Our commercial commitments are represented principally by our agreement with Lonza Biologics, PLC and our collaboration with P&G Pharmaceuticals. 39 Table of Contents Lonza Agreement The Large Scale Product Supply Agreement dated December 18, 2002, or the Lonza Agreement, between Lonza Biologics PLC, or Lonza, and us, relating to the manufacture of our product candidate eculizumab, was amended, or the Lonza Amendment, in April 2004. Under the Lonza Amendment, the facility in which Lonza will manufacture eculizumab is changed; the manufacturing capacity we are required to purchase is reduced; and future potential payments of $10 million by us to Lonza relating to achievement of eculizumab sales milestones and of up to $15 million payable by us relating to manufacturing yields achieved by Lonza are eliminated. In August 2004 we paid Lonza an additional $3.5 million as a non refundable advance under the Lonza Amendment. In addition, the amounts we would be required to pay in connection with a voluntary termination of the Lonza Agreement by us have been changed. Under the Lonza Agreement, as amended by the Lonza Amendment, if we terminate the Lonza Agreement on or prior to September 30, 2006, we may be required to pay different amounts, depending on when the Lonza Agreement is terminated, which are between zero and approximately $10 million and, if we terminate the Lonza Agreement after September 30, 2006, we may be required to pay for batches of product scheduled for manufacture up to 12 months following termination. P&G Pharmaceuticals Collaboration In December 2001, we and P&G entered into a binding memorandum of understanding, or MOU, pursuant to which the January 1999 collaboration was revised. Under the revised structure per the MOU, we and P&G share decision making and responsibility for all future U.S. development and commercialization costs for pexelizumab, including clinical, manufacturing, marketing, and sales efforts. The revised collaboration per the MOU provides that we and P&G each incur approximately 50% of all Phase III clinical trial, product development and manufacturing, and commercialization costs necessary for the potential approval and marketing of pexelizumab in the U.S. and that we will receive approximately 50% of the gross margin on U.S. sales, if any. P&G agreed to retain responsibility for future development and commercialization costs outside the U.S., with us receiving a royalty on sales outside the U.S., if any. We are responsible for royalties on certain third party intellectual property worldwide, if such intellectual property is necessary. Additionally, as part of the MOU, we will receive milestone payments for achieving specified development steps, regulatory filings and approvals. We and P&G have agreed, as per the MOU, that we will share concurrently 50% of the ongoing U.S. pre production and development manufacturing costs for pexelizumab as well as any AMI or CABG Phase III clinical trial costs. P&G has the right to terminate the collaboration or sublicense its rights at any time. If P&G terminates the collaboration, as per the MOU, P&G is required to contribute its share of agreed to obligations and costs incurred prior to the termination, but may not be required to contribute towards obligations incurred after termination. In such circumstance all rights and the exclusive license to our intellectual property related to pexelizumab would revert back to us and we would be entitled to all future pexelizumab revenues, if any, without any sharing of revenues, if any, with P&G. If P&G were to sublicense its rights, the sub licensee would be required to assume all of P&Gs obligations under the collaboration. We rely on P&G for the development, manufacture and potential commercialization of pexelizumab. Termination of our agreement by P&G or sublicense of its collaboration rights could cause significant delays in the development, manufacture and potential commercialization of pexelizumab and result in significant additional costs to us. Under terms of our MOU we may be obligated to reimburse P&G for 50% of cancellation costs under P&Gs third party pexelizumab manufacturing contract. Our portion of those cancellation costs could amount to as much as $8.0 million. 40 Table of Contents Additional Payments Additional payments, aggregating up to $20 million, would be required if we elect to continue development under our current pre clinical development programs and if specified development milestones are reached (including achievement of commercialization). Approximately $3 million of these costs may be incurred in the next three years. Taxes For tax reporting purposes, as of July 31, 2005, we have available for federal tax reporting purposes, net operating loss carry forwards of approximately $439.8 million which expire through 2025 (of which approximately $27.4 million resulted from the exercise of nonqualified stock options). We also have federal and state research and development credit carry forwards of approximately $16.1 million which begin to expire commencing in fiscal 2008. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 contains certain provisions that limit our ability to utilize net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards in any given year resulting from cumulative changes in ownership interests in excess of 50 percent over a three year period. We have determined that these limitation provisions were triggered in 1995. For the years ended July 31 2005 and 2004, the limitation is approximately $1.4 million annually. There is no future limitation as a result of this change in ownership. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R) (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, or SFAS 123(R), which replaces SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS 123(R) requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values, beginning with the first annual period after June 15, 2005. Pursuant to revisions to SFAS No. 123(R) in April 2005 by the FASB, we are obligated to start expensing options at the commencement of our fiscal year on August 1, 2005. In addition, in March 2005, the FASB issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107) which is to provide guidance regarding the interaction between SFAS 123(R) and certain SEC rules and regulations and provide additional guidance regarding the valuation of share based payment arrangements for public companies. We expect to implement SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective application method. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, which replaces APB Opinion 20, Accounting Changes and SFAS 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements and changes the requirements of the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS 154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle. It also applies to changes required by an accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions. When a pronouncement includes specific transition provisions, those provisions should be followed. This statement is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors before you decide to invest in our Company and our business because these risk factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. The risk and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 41 Table of Contents If we continue to incur operating losses, we may be unable to continue our operations. We have incurred losses since we started our company in January 1992. As of July 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $448.1 million. If we continue to incur operating losses and fail to become a profitable company, we may be unable to continue our operations. Since we began our business, we have focused on research and development of product candidates. We have no products that are available for sale and do not know when we will have products available for sale, if ever. We expect to continue to operate at a net loss for at least the next several years as we continue our research and development efforts, continue to conduct clinical trials and develop manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Our future profitability depends on our receiving regulatory approval of our product candidates and our ability to successfully manufacture and market approved drugs. The extent and the timing of our future losses and our profitability, if we are ever profitable, are highly uncertain. We are subject to extensive government regulation; if we do not obtain regulatory approval for our drug products, we will not be able to sell our drug products. We and our partners cannot sell or market our drugs without regulatory approval. If we or our partners do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products, the value of our company and our results of operations will be harmed. In the United States, we or our partners must obtain and maintain approval from the FDA for each indication for each drug that we intend to sell. Obtaining FDA approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. Foreign governments also regulate drugs distributed outside the United States, whose approval can also be lengthy, expensive and highly uncertain. None of our product candidates has received regulatory approval to be marketed and sold in the United States or any other country. We may not receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates for at least the next several years, if ever. We and our partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the FDA, other federal and state agencies, and governmental authorities in other countries. These regulations apply both before and after approval of our product candidates, if our product candidates are ever approved, and cover, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, and export of biologics. Failure to comply with the laws, including statutes and regulations, administered by the FDA or other agencies could result in administrative and judicial sanctions, including, warning letters; fines and other civil penalties; delay in approving or refusal to approve a product candidate; product recall or seizure; interruption of production; operating restrictions; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. The FDA has granted fast track status for pexelizumab for use during CPB and for treatment of AMI, and for eculizumab in treatment of membranous nephritis. Although fast track status may expedite development and FDA review of an application, there can be no assurance that pexelizumab or eculizumab will be reviewed more expeditiously for their fast track indications than would otherwise have been the case or will be approved promptly, or at all. Further, the FDA could revoke fast track status for pexelizumab or eculizumab. The FDA has granted orphan drug designation for eculizumab in the treatment of PNH and membranous nephritis. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the FDA review and approval process. If a product which has an orphan drug designation is the first drug of its type to receive FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for a period of seven years, except in limited circumstances. 42 Table of Contents We depend heavily on the success of our lead product candidates, eculizumab and pexelizumab, which are still under development. If we do not obtain FDA approval of our lead product candidates, or if FDA delays approval or narrows the indications for which we may market these product candidates, our business will be materially harmed. We anticipate that in the near term our ability to generate revenues will depend on the successful development and commercialization of eculizumab and pexelizumab. The commercial success of our lead product candidates will depend on several factors, including the following: successful completion of our ongoing Phase III clinical trials for these product candidates; receipt of marketing approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities; establishing commercial manufacturing capabilities ourselves or through third party manufacturers; successfully launching commercial sales of the products; and acceptance of the products in the medical community and by third party payers. If the data from our ongoing Phase III pivotal clinical trials for our lead product candidates are not satisfactory, we may not proceed with the filing of a biological license application, or BLA, for one or both of our lead product candidates or we may be forced to delay the filing. Even if the results of the ongoing pivotal trials appear satisfactory and we file a BLA, the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies may not accept our filing, may request additional information from us, including data from additional clinical trials, and, ultimately, may not grant marketing approval. Even if the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities do grant marketing approval for one or both of our product candidates, they may narrow the indications for which we are permitted to market one or both products, or may pose other restrictions on the use or marketing of the product. A narrowed indication or other restrictions may limit the market potential for the affected product. If we are not successful in commercializing one or both of our lead product candidates, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business will be materially harmed and we may need to curtail or cease operations. If our drug trials are delayed or achieve unfavorable results, we will have to delay or may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for our products. We must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates before we can obtain regulatory approval for our products. We need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and clinical human trials. These tests and trials may not achieve favorable results. The FDA typically requires two well controlled clinical trials that demonstrate efficacy in order to obtain FDA approval to market a product candidate. The SPA for each of our ongoing Phase III clinical programs for eculizumab and pexelizumab provides for only a single efficacy trial and the FDA has indicated that the trials should provide compelling evidence of clinically meaningful benefit in order to warrant consideration for marketing approval of the product candidate. The FDA has noted that a study that is merely statistically positive may not provide the evidence necessary to support filing or approval of a product candidate. In addition, the FDA has noted that it may require additional safety information before granting marketing approval. We would need to reevaluate any drug that did not test favorably and either alter the study, the drug or the dose and perform additional or repeat tests, or abandon the drug development project. In those circumstances, we would not be able to obtain regulatory approval on a timely basis, if ever. Even if approval is granted, the approval may require limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. 43 Table of Contents Clinical trials completed to date have not achieved their primary endpoints. In September 2000, we announced the completion of enrollment in a Phase IIb trial of pexelizumab for the treatment of complications in patients after CABG with CPB including the reduction of the frequency and severity of myocardial infarctions and frequency of death. The primary therapeutic pre set goal of the trial, referred to as the primary endpoint, was not achieved. However, in the pre specified population that included approximately 90% of the patient population, (i.e. the 800 patients who had CABG surgery without valve surgery), those that received pexelizumab at the highest dose level experienced a statistically significant reduction in larger post surgical heart attacks. Based on these results, in January 2002, we commenced enrollment of a Phase III clinical trial of pexelizumab in patients undergoing CABG with CPB. We completed the target patient enrollment of approximately 3,000 patients in February 2003. In August 2003, we disclosed preliminary results that indicated that the primary endpoint was not achieved with statistical significance. The primary endpoint in this Phase III trial was a composite of the incidence of death or myocardial infarction, measured at 30 days post procedure, in patients undergoing CABG without simultaneous valve surgery. We have concluded two Phase II studies with pexelizumab in AMI: one study in patients receiving angioplasty, a procedure for opening up narrowed or blocked arteries that supply blood to the heart, and the other in patients receiving thrombolytic therapy, a procedure for dissolving clots that block heart vessels. The angioplasty study, called COMMA, and the thrombolytic study, called COMPLY, completed patient enrollment in April 2002 and January 2002, respectively. Results from both studies were reported at the November 2002 annual meeting of the American Heart Association. In both studies, the primary endpoint of a reduction of myocardial infarction was not reached; however in the COMMA study, pexelizumab treatment was associated with a statistically significant, dose dependent reduction in death. In 2001, we announced the completion of a Phase IIa trial of eculizumab for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, or RA. The primary endpoint for this trial was met by the group of patients who received the mid level, monthly dosing regimen of eculizumab, but patients who received higher or lower doses of eculizumab in the clinical trial did not achieve the primary endpoint. The primary endpoint in this Phase IIa trial was ACR 20 at 3.25 months. In January 2004, we announced preliminary results of a Phase IIb study of eculizumab in approximately 350 RA patients. Results of the trial indicate that the primary endpoint was achieved with statistical significance in one of the dosing regimens (the monthly dosing arm), but not in the higher, bimonthly dosing arm. Completion of these and other trials does not guarantee that we will initiate additional trials for our product candidates, that if the trials are initiated what the scope and phase of the trial will be or that they will be completed, or that if the trials are completed, that the results will provide a sufficient basis to proceed with further trials or to apply for or receive regulatory approvals or to commercialize products. Results of trials could be inconclusive, requiring additional or repeat trials. If the results achieved in our clinical trials are insufficient to proceed to further trials or to regulatory approval of our product candidates our company could be materially adversely affected. Failure of a trial to achieve its pre specified primary endpoint generally increases the likelihood that additional studies will be required if we determine to continue development of the product candidate, and reduces the likelihood of timely development of and regulatory approval to market the product candidate. 44 Table of Contents There are many reasons why drug testing could be delayed or terminated. For human trials, patients must be recruited and each product candidate must be tested at various doses and formulations for each clinical indication. Also, to ensure safety and effectiveness, the effect of drugs often must be studied over a long period of time, especially for the chronic diseases that we are studying. Unfavorable results or insufficient patient enrollment in our clinical trials could delay or cause us to abandon a product development program. Additional factors that can cause delay, impairment or termination of our clinical trials include: slow patient enrollment; long treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness; lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate; disruption of operations at the clinical trial sites; adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; the failure of patients taking the placebo to continue to participate in our clinical trials; lack of effectiveness of the product candidate being tested; and lack of sufficient funds. We may expand our business through new acquisitions that could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. Our business strategy includes expanding our products and capabilities, and we may seek acquisitions to do so. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: substantial cash expenditures; potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities; incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to identify at the time of acquisition; difficulties in assimilating the operations of the acquired companies; diverting our managements attention away from other business concerns; risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; and the potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies. We cannot assure you that any acquisition will result in short term or long term benefits to us. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. In addition, our future success would depend in part on our ability to manage the rapid growth associated with some of these acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make the combination of our business with that of acquired businesses or companies work or be successful. Furthermore, the development or 45 Table of Contents expansion of our business or any acquired business or companies may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have these necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise funds by selling shares of our capital stock, which could dilute current stockholders ownership interest in our company, or securities convertible into our capital stock, which could dilute current stockholders ownership interest in our company upon conversion. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to continue or complete our product development. We believe we have sufficient capital to fund our operations and product development for at least twenty four months. We will need to raise additional capital before or after that time to complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We are currently conducting or initiating several clinical trials. Funding needs may shift between programs and potentially accelerate and increase if we initiate new pivotal trials for our product candidates, including any pivotal clinical trial of pexelizumab for AMI patients undergoing angioplasty. We rely heavily on P&G to fund development of pexelizumab. If P&G were to terminate the pexelizumab collaboration, we could have to raise additional capital or find new collaboration partners in order to continue the development of pexelizumab. Additional financing could take the form of public or private debt or equity offerings, equity line facilities, bank loans, collaborative research and development arrangements with corporate partners and or the sale or licensing of some of our property. The amount of capital we may need depends on many factors, including: the existence, terms and status of collaborative arrangements and strategic partnerships, such as our collaboration with P&G; the progress, timing and scope of our research and development programs; the progress, timing and scope of our preclinical studies and clinical trials; the time and cost necessary to obtain regulatory approvals; the time and cost necessary to further develop manufacturing processes, arrange for contract manufacturing or build manufacturing facilities and obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for those facilities; the time and cost necessary to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; the cost necessary to sell, market and distribute our products, if any are approved; changes in applicable governmental regulatory policies; and any new collaborative, licensing and other commercial relationships that we may establish. We may not get funding when we need it or funding may only be available on unfavorable terms. If we cannot raise adequate funds to satisfy our capital requirements, we may have to delay, scale back or eliminate our research and development activities or future operations. We might have to license our technology to others. This could result in sharing revenues that we might otherwise retain for ourselves. Any of these actions would harm our business. 46 Table of Contents We are significantly leveraged. On July 31, 2005, we had outstanding $150 million principal amount of 1.375% convertible senior notes. These notes remain outstanding, and the degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: make it difficult for us to make payments on our notes; make it difficult for us to obtain financing for working capital acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If our collaboration with P&G is terminated or P&G reduces its commitment to our collaboration, our ability to develop and commercialize pexelizumab in the time expected, or at all, and our business would be harmed. We rely heavily on P&G to perform development, obtain commercial manufacturing, and provide sales and marketing for pexelizumab. While we cannot assure you that pexelizumab will ever be successfully developed and commercialized, if P&G does not perform its obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to commercialize pexelizumab will be significantly adversely affected. We rely on P&G to provide funding and additional resources for the development and commercialization of pexelizumab. These include funds and resources for: clinical development and clinical and commercial manufacturing; obtaining regulatory approvals; and sales, marketing and distribution efforts worldwide. P&G has the right to terminate the collaboration or sublicense its collaboration rights at any time. Termination of our agreement with P&G would cause significant delays in the development of pexelizumab and result in significant additional development costs to us. If we were to continue development of pexelizumab following termination by P&G, we would need to fund the development and commercialization of pexelizumab on our own or identify a new development partner. We would need to develop or acquire replacement expertise in many areas necessary for the development and potential commercialization of pexelizumab, or enter into agreements with other companies with respect to those matters. We do not have the resources to replace some of the functions provided or funded by P&G. Accordingly, we might have to stop the development of pexelizumab or shift resources from other product development programs until alternative resources were obtained. Sublicense by P&G also could cause significant delays in the development of pexelizumab and result in substantial additional development costs to us. We might also have to repeat testing already completed with P&G. In addition, sublicense would introduce a new collaboration partner which could create new and additional risks to the development of pexelizumab that cannot be identified at this time. 47 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that P&G will devote the resources necessary to successfully develop and commercialize pexelizumab in a timely manner, if at all. Furthermore, P&G may devote the necessary resources, but we may still not successfully develop and commercialize pexelizumab. If we are unable to engage and retain third party collaborators, our research and development efforts may be delayed. We depend upon third party collaborators to assist us in the development of our product candidates. If any of our existing collaborators breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development work under an agreement in a timely manner, or at all, we would experience significant delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates. We would also experience significant delays if we could not engage additional collaborators when required. In either event, we would be required to devote additional funds or other resources to these activities or to terminate them. This would divert funds or other resources from other parts of our business. We cannot assure you that: current collaboration arrangements will be continued in their current form; we will be able to negotiate acceptable collaborative agreements to develop or commercialize our product candidates; any arrangements with third parties will be successful; or current or potential collaborators will not pursue treatments for other diseases or seek other ways of developing treatments for our disease targets. If the trading price of our common stock continues to fluctuate in a wide range, our stockholders will suffer considerable uncertainty with respect to an investment in our common stock. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. Factors such as announcements of fluctuations in our or our competitors operating results or clinical or scientific results, fluctuations in the trading prices or business prospects of our competitors and collaborators, including, but not limited to P&G, changes in our prospects, and market conditions for biotechnology stocks in general could have a significant impact on the future trading prices of our common stock and our convertible senior notes. In particular, the trading price of the common stock of many biotechnology companies, including ours, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have at times been unrelated to the operating performance of the companies whose stocks were affected. This is due to several factors, including general market conditions, the announcement of the results of our clinical trials or product development and the results of our attempts to obtain FDA approval for our products. In particular, since August 1, 1999, the sales price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $9.05 per share to a high of $119.88 per share. While we cannot predict our future performance, if our stock price continues to fluctuate in a wide range, an investment in our common stock may result in considerable uncertainty for an investor. 48 Table of Contents If we cannot protect the confidentiality and proprietary nature of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position will be harmed. Our business requires using sensitive technology, techniques and proprietary compounds that we protect as trade secrets. However, since we are a small company, we also rely heavily on collaboration with suppliers, outside scientists and other drug companies. Collaboration presents a strong risk of exposing our trade secrets. If our trade secrets were exposed, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business prospects. In order to protect our drugs and technology more effectively, we need to obtain and maintain patents covering the drugs and technologies we develop. We may obtain patents through ownership or license. Our drugs are expensive and time consuming to test and develop. Without patent protection, competitors may copy our methods, or the chemical structure or other aspects of our drugs. Even if we obtain and maintain patents, the patents may not be broad enough to protect our drugs from copycat products. If we are found to be infringing on patents owned by others, we may be forced to pay damages to the patent owner and obtain a license to continue the manufacture, sale or development of our drugs and or pay damages. If we cannot obtain a license, we may be prevented from the manufacture, sale or development of our drugs. Parts of our technology, techniques and proprietary compounds and potential drug candidates, including those which are in licensed, may be found to infringe patents owned by or granted to others. If we cannot resolve these conflicts, we may be liable for damages, be required to obtain costly licenses or be stopped from manufacturing, using or selling our products or conducting other activities. For example, we are aware of broad patents owned by others relating to the manufacture, use and sale of recombinant humanized antibodies, recombinant humanized single chain antibodies, recombinant human antibodies, and recombinant human single chain antibodies. Many of our product candidates, including our two leading product candidates, eculizumab and pexelizumab, are either genetically engineered antibodies, including recombinant humanized antibodies, recombinant humanized single chain antibodies, recombinant human antibodies, or recombinant human single chain antibodies. We have received notices from the owners of some of these patents claiming that their patents may be infringed by the development, manufacture or sale of some of our drug candidates, including pexelizumab and eculizumab. We are also aware of other patents owned by third parties that might be claimed to be infringed by the development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates, including pexelizumab and eculizumab. In respect to some of these patents, we have obtained licenses, or expect to obtain licenses. However, with regard to other patents, we have either determined in our judgment that: our products do not infringe the patents; or we do not believe the patents are valid; or we have identified and are testing various modifications that we believe should not infringe the patents and which should permit commercialization of our product candidates. Any holder of these patents or other patents covering similar technology could sue us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling or developing our drugs. Legal disputes can be costly and time consuming to defend. If any patent holder successfully challenges our judgment that our products do not infringe their patents or that their patents are invalid, we could be required to pay costly damages or to obtain a license to sell or develop our drugs. A required license may be costly or may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A costly license, or inability to obtain a necessary license, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 49 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we would prevail in a patent infringement action; will be able to obtain a license to any third party patent on commercially reasonable terms; successfully develop non infringing alternatives on a timely basis; or license alternative non infringing technology, if any exists, on commercially reasonable terms. Any impediment to our ability to manufacture or sell approved forms of our product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. If the testing or use of our products harms people, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of drugs for use in humans exposes us to product liability risks. Side effects and other problems from using our products could give rise to product liability claims against us. We might have to recall our products, if any, from the marketplace. Some of these risks are unknown at this time. In addition, we may be sued by people who participate in our trials. A number of patients who participate in such trials are already very ill when they enter the trial. Any informed consents or waivers obtained from people who sign up for our trials may not protect us from liability or litigation. Our product liability insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any covered liabilities. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. In addition, negative publicity relating to a product liability claim may make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to recruit patients for our clinical trials or to market and sell our products. As a result of these factors, a product liability claim, even if successfully defended, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Use of C5 Inhibitors, such as pexelizumab and eculizumab, is associated with an increased risk for infection with neisseria bacteria. One patient in our trials of eculizumab for the treatment of membranous nephritis became infected with neisseria bacteria. Serious cases of neisseria infection can result in brain damage, loss of limbs or parts of limbs, kidney failure, or death. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including the handling and disposal of non hazardous and hazardous wastes, including medical and biological wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment, including air, soils and water sources. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating its property or locations to which wastes were sent from its facilities, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or necessarily caused, the contamination. Such obligations and liabilities, which to date have not been material, could have a material impact on our business and financial condition. 50 Table of Contents If we cannot manufacture our drug candidates in sufficient amounts at acceptable costs and on a timely basis, we may be unable to have the necessary materials for product testing, and later for potential sale in the market. Either event would harm our business. For our drug trials, we need to produce sufficient amounts of product for testing. Our small manufacturing plant cannot manufacture enough of our product candidates for later stage clinical development or commercial supply. In addition, we do not have the capacity to produce more than one product candidate at a time. We depend on a few outside suppliers for manufacturing. If we experience interruptions in the manufacture of our products, our drug development and commercialization efforts will be delayed. If any of our outside manufacturers stops manufacturing our products or reduces the amount manufactured, or is otherwise unable to manufacture our required amounts at our required quality, we will need to find other alternatives. If we are unable to find an acceptable outside manufacturer on reasonable terms, we will have to divert our own resources to manufacturing, which may not be sufficient to produce the necessary quantity or quality of product. As a result, our ability to conduct testing and drug trials and our plans for commercialization would be materially adversely affected. Submission of products and new development programs for regulatory approval, as well as our plans for commercialization, would be delayed. Our competitive position and our prospects for achieving profitability would be materially and adversely affected. Manufacture of drug products, including the need to develop and utilize manufacturing processes that consistently produce our drug products to their required quality specifications, is highly regulated by the FDA and other domestic and foreign authorities. We cannot assure you that we or our third party collaborators will successfully comply with all of those regulations, which failure would have a materially adverse effect on our business. Manufacture of our drug products is highly technical and only a few third parties have the ability and capacity to manufacture our drug products for our development and commercialization needs. We can not assure you that these potential third party collaborators will agree to manufacture our products on our behalf on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we do achieve agreement from one or more third parties to manufacture our drug products, we can not assure you that they will be able or willing to honor the terms of the agreements, including any obligations to manufacture the drug products in accordance with regulatory requirements and to our quality specifications and volume requirements. Due to the highly technical requirements of manufacturing our drug products, our third party collaborators and we may be unable to manufacture our drug products despite their and our efforts. Inability to contract with third party manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms, or failure or delay by our third party manufacturers, if any, in manufacturing our drug products in the volumes and quality required, would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have no experience or capacity for manufacturing drug products in volumes that would be necessary to support commercial sales. If we are unable to establish and maintain commercial scale manufacturing within our planned time and cost parameters, sales of our products and our financial performance would be adversely affected. Currently, we are relying on P&G to retain appropriate commercial scale manufacturing for pexelizumab through one or more third party manufacturers. P&G has contracted with Chiron Corporation for the commercial scale manufacture of pexelizumab. The failure of P&G to obtain and maintain appropriate commercial scale manufacturing for pexelizumab in accordance with all regulatory requirements on a timely basis, or at all, may prevent or impede the commercialization of pexelizumab. We have executed a commercial scale product supply agreement with Lonza Biologics, plc for the long term manufacture of eculizumab. The failure of Lonza to manufacture appropriate supplies of eculizumab on a timely basis, or at all, may prevent or impede the commercialization of eculizumab. Due to the nature of the current market for third party commercial manufacturing arrangements, many arrangements require substantial penalty payments by the customer for failure to use the manufacturing capacity contracted for. We could 51 Table of Contents owe substantial penalty payments to Lonza if we were not to use the manufacturing capacity we contracted for, and we could be required to share on an equal basis with P&G substantial penalty payments owed by P&G for its failure to utilize the manufacturing capacity it contracted for with third party manufacturers for the supply of pexelizumab. The payment of a substantial penalty would harm our financial condition. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully market and sell future drug products. We have no sales or distribution personnel or capabilities. We have only recently established core pre commercial marketing capabilities. If we are unable to continue developing those capabilities, either by developing our own capabilities or entering into agreements with others, we will not be able to successfully sell our future drug products. In that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need. We may not be able to enter into any marketing or distribution agreements with third party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. Currently, we are relying on P&G for sales, marketing and distribution of pexelizumab. P&G, or any future third party collaborators, may not succeed at selling, marketing or distributing any of our future drug products. If we are unable to obtain reimbursement for our future products from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, our products may be too costly for regular use and our ability to generate revenues would be harmed. Our products, if commercialized, may be significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments. Our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if we cannot depend on governmental and private third party payers to defray the cost of our products to the consumer. If these entities refuse to provide reimbursement with respect to our products or determine to provide an insufficient level of reimbursement, our products may be too costly for general use. Our profitability may be adversely impacted if we choose to offer our products at a reduced price. Any limitation on the use of our products or any decrease in the price of our products without a corresponding decrease in expenses will have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve profitability. In some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. Our results of operation may suffer if we are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if the reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited. Since our products will likely be too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, adequate coverage and reimbursement by third party payors is essential to our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates. In particular, given a number of factors, including the limited PNH population, costs of manufacturing and commercialization, clinical costs and other historic and future costs, it is likely that the price of eculizumab, once established, will be prohibitively expensive without patient access to adequate health insurance coverage and reimbursement by third party payors. If patients do not have access to adequate coverage or if third party payors do not provide reimbursement at a sufficient level it would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. 52 Table of Contents If our competitors get to the marketplace before we do with better or cheaper drugs, our drugs may not be profitable to sell or to continue to develop. Each of Abbott Laboratories Inc., Adprotech Ltd., Avant Immunotherapeutics, Inc., Baxter International, Inc., Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Neurogen Corporation, Tanox, Inc., and XOMA, Ltd. have publicly announced their intentions to develop drugs which target the inflammatory effects of complement in the immune system. We are also aware that GlaxoSmithKline, plc, Merck & Co., Inc., and Pfizer, Inc. are also attempting to develop complement inhibitor therapies. Each of Cambridge Antibody Technology Group, plc, MorphoSys AG and Dyax Corporation has publicly announced intentions to develop therapeutic human antibodies from libraries of human antibody genes. Additionally, each of Abgenix, Inc. and Medarex, Inc. has publicly announced intentions to develop therapeutic human antibodies from mice that have been bred to include some human antibody genes. These and other pharmaceutical companies, many of which have significantly greater resources than we, may develop, manufacture and market better or cheaper drugs than our product candidates. They may establish themselves in the marketplace before we are able even to finish our clinical trials. Other pharmaceutical companies also compete with us to attract academic research institutions as drug development partners, including for licensing these institutions proprietary technology. If our competitors successfully enter into such arrangements with academic institutions, we will be precluded from pursuing those unique opportunities and may not be able to find equivalent opportunities elsewhere. If we fail to recruit and retain personnel, our research and product development programs may be delayed. We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and scientific personnel, particularly Dr. Leonard Bell, M.D., our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors, David W. Keiser, our President, Chief Operating Officer and a member of our Board of Directors, and Stephen P. Squinto, Ph.D., our Executive Vice President and Head of Research. There is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientific and technical personnel. Since our business is very science oriented and specialized, we need to continue to attract and retain such people. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business. We have a key man life insurance policy for Dr. Bell and employment agreements with Dr. Bell, Mr. Keiser and Dr. Squinto. None of our key personnel is nearing retirement age or to our knowledge, planning to retire. To our knowledge, there is no tension between any of our key personnel and the Board of Directors. If we lose the services of our management and scientific personnel and fail to recruit other scientific and technical personnel, our research and product development programs will be materially and adversely affected. In particular, we highly value the services of Dr. Bell, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of his services could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our development objectives. Our ability to use net operating loss carry forwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited if there is a change in ownership of Alexion. As of July 31, 2005, we had approximately $440 million of net operating loss carry forwards, or NOLs, available to reduce taxable income in future years. We believe that some of these NOLs are currently subject to an annual limitation under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Our ability to utilize our NOLs may be further limited if we undergo an ownership change, as defined in section 382, as a result of subsequent changes in the ownership of our outstanding stock. We would undergo an ownership change if, among other things, the stockholders, or group of stockholders, who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the value of our stock, or are otherwise treated as 5% stockholders under section 382 and the regulations promulgated there under, increase their 53 Table of Contents aggregate percentage ownership of our stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of our stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three year period preceding the potential ownership change. In the event of an ownership change, section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre ownership change NOLs. The limitation imposed by section 382 for any post change year would be determined by multiplying the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change (subject to certain adjustments) by the applicable long term tax exempt rate. Any unused limitation may be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built in gains which may be present with respect to assets held by us at the time of the ownership change that are recognized in the five year period after the ownership change. Our use of NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected. Based upon our review of the aggregate change in percentage ownership during the current testing period, we do not believe that we experienced a change in ownership within the meaning of section 382 as a result of the offering of our common stock in August 2005. However, such a determination is complex and there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service could not successfully challenge our conclusion. Even if the offering of our common stock did not cause an ownership change to occur immediately, the issuance, directly or indirectly, of a relatively large number of shares in that offering may mean that we may not be able to engage in transactions involving the issuance or deemed issuance of stock within the subsequent three year period without triggering an ownership change within the meaning of section 382. In addition, there are circumstances beyond our control, such as market purchases of our stock by investors who are existing 5% shareholders, or become 5% shareholders as a result of such purchases, which could result in an ownership change with respect to our stock. Thus, there can be no assurance that our future actions, or future actions by our stockholders, will not result in the occurrence of an ownership change, which may limit our use of the NOLs and negatively affect future cash flows. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. Currently, we maintain approximately 20% of our cash and investments in financial instruments with original maturity dates of three months or less, 15% in financial instruments with original maturity dates of greater than three months and less than one year, and the remaining 65% in financial instruments with original maturity dates of equal to or greater than one year and less than two years. These financial instruments are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if interest rates increase. We estimate that a change of 100 basis points in interest rates with a weighted average duration of approximately 4 months at July 31, 2005 would result in a $600,000 decrease or increase in the fair value of our cash and investments. Our outstanding long term liabilities as of July 31, 2005 consisted of $150.0 million of our 1.375% Convertible Senior Notes due February 1, 2012. As the notes bear interest at a fixed rate, our results of operations would not be affected by interest rate changes. Although future borrowings may bear interest at a floating rate, and would therefore be affected by interest rate changes, we cannot reasonably estimate the effect and therefore do not believe that a change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have a material effect on our financial condition. Accordingly, we do not believe that there is any material market risk exposure with respect to derivative or other financial instruments that would require disclosure under this item. 54 Table of Contents As of July 31, 2005, the market value of our $150.0 million 1.375% convertible senior notes due February 1, 2012, based on quoted market prices, was estimated at $153.0 million. 
 
