Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Overview The company designs, manufacturers, packages, distributes and sells medical, surgical, diagnostic and patient care devices. The company sells a broad, diversified portfolio of products to hospitals, individual healthcare professionals, extended care health facilities and alternate site facilities in the United States and abroad, principally in Europe and Japan. In general, the companys products are intended to be used once and then discarded or implanted either temporarily or permanently. The company reports sales in four major product group categories: vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialties. The company also has a product group of other products. The companys earnings are driven by its ability to continue to generate sales of its products and improve operating efficiency. Bards ability to increase sales over time depends upon its success in developing, acquiring and marketing innovative and differentiated products that meet the needs of clinicians and their patients. In 2008, the companys research and development (R&D) expense, including purchased R&D, was $199.1 million. The company expects R&D expense to continue to increase in the future. The company also makes selective acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, generally focusing on small to medium sized transactions to provide ongoing growth opportunities. In addition, the company may from time to time consider acquisitions of larger, established companies under appropriate circumstances. The company may also periodically divest lines of business in which it is not able to reasonably attain or maintain a leadership position or for other strategic reasons. The company spent $185.2 million in 2008, including purchased R&D, for the acquisition and license of products and technologies. Acquisitions and Divestitures On June 12, 2008, the company decided to discontinue the sale of its Salute II hernia fixation device. This decision was based on a strategic review, which considered the continued technical challenges associated with the products manufacture and its overall profitability, as well as an assessment of the timing and impact of alternative devices under development. In connection with this decision, the company recorded a non cash charge of $40.5 million ($34.9 million after tax). On June 5, 2008, the company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Specialized Health Products International, Inc. (Specialized Health Products) for a purchase price of $1.00 per share in cash, totalling $68.4 million, plus direct acquisition costs of $2.3 million. Specialized Health Products manufactures and markets vascular access products, including winged infusion sets, which are used to deliver therapeutic agents through vascular access ports. The acquisition represents a strategic addition to Bards port franchise. On January 11, 2008, the company acquired the assets of the LifeStent &reg; family of stents from Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (Edwards Lifesciences) for a net cash payment of $73.3 million, plus direct acquisition costs of $3.6 million, and up to $65.0 million in contingent milestone payments, of which $23.0 million was paid in December 2008. In addition, the company received Pre Market Approval from the FDA in February 2009 for use of the LifeStent&reg; in the superficial femoral artery and proximal popliteal artery, which resulted in a contingent milestone payment of $27.0 million. The acquisition represents a strategic addition to Bards portfolio of non coronary stent and stent graft products that is complementary to the companys current products, call points and technology platforms. See Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures of the notes to consolidated financial statements for more information. Results of Operations Net Sales Bards 2008 consolidated net sales were $2,452.1 million, an increase of 11% on a reported basis (10% on a constant currency basis) over 2007 consolidated net sales of $2,202.0 million. Bards 2007 consolidated net sales increased 11% on a reported basis (9% on a constant currency basis) over 2006 consolidated net sales of $1,979.6 million. Net sales on a constant currency basis is a non GAAP financial measure and should not be viewed as a replacement of GAAP results. See Managements Use of Non GAAP Measures below. II 3 Table of Contents Price changes had the effect of increasing consolidated net sales by 0.2% and 0.1% for 2008 and 2007, respectively, compared to the prior years. Exchange rate fluctuations had the effect of increasing consolidated net sales by 1.0% and 2.0% for 2008 and 2007, respectively, compared to the prior years. The primary exchange rate movement that impacts net sales is the movement of the Euro compared to the U.S. dollar. The impact of exchange rate movements on net sales is not indicative of the impact on net earnings due to the offsetting impact of exchange rate movements on operating costs and expenses, costs incurred in other currencies and the companys hedging activities. Bards 2008 United States net sales of $1,661.3 million increased 9% over 2007 United States net sales of $1,520.6 million. Bards 2008 international net sales of $790.8 million increased 16% on a reported basis and 12% on a constant currency basis over 2007 international net sales of $681.4 million. Bards 2007 United States net sales increased 10% over 2006 United States net sales of $1,383.0 million. Bards 2007 international net sales increased 14% on a reported basis and 7% on a constant currency basis over 2006 international net sales of $596.6 million. Presented below is a summary of consolidated net sales by disease state. Product Group Summary of Net Sales For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change ConstantCurrency 2006 Change ConstantCurrency (dollars in millions) Vascular $ 643.1 $ 539.6 19% 17% $ 479.6 13% 9% Urology 708.5 658.9 8% 7% 582.0 13% 11% Oncology 646.6 558.6 16% 15% 481.3 16% 14% Surgical Specialties 368.2 363.5 1% 357.4 2% Other 85.7 81.4 5% 5% 79.3 3% 1% Total net sales $ 2,452.1 $ 2,202.0 11% 10% $ 1,979.6 11% 9% Vascular Products Bard markets a wide range of products for the peripheral vascular market, including endovascular products, electrophysiology products and graft products. Consolidated net sales in 2008 of vascular products increased 19% on a reported basis (17% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. United States net sales in 2008 increased 14% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2008 increased 25% on a reported basis (19% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales in 2007 of vascular products increased 13% on a reported basis (9% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. United States net sales in 2007 grew 11% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2007 increased 15% on a reported basis (7% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. The vascular group is the companys most global business, with international net sales comprising 48% and 45% of consolidated net sales of vascular products in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Consolidated net sales of endovascular products in 2008 increased 25% on a reported basis (23% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Endovascular products comprised 65% of 2008 consolidated net sales of vascular products. Consolidated net sales of endovascular products in 2007 increased 17% on a reported basis (14% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. The companys percutaneous transluminal angioplasty balloon catheters, vena cava filters, stents and biopsy products contributed to the growth in this category in 2008 and 2007. Sales from the LifeStent&reg; family of stents acquired in January 2008 also contributed to growth in 2008. Consolidated net sales in 2008 of electrophysiology products increased 18% on a reported basis (15% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales in 2007 of electrophysiology products increased 13% on a reported basis (8% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. The companys electrophysiology laboratory system, steerable diagnostic catheter and atrial fibrillation catheter lines were growth drivers in both 2008 and 2007. II 4 Table of Contents Consolidated net sales in 2008 of graft products decreased 1% on a reported basis (4% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales in 2007 of graft products decreased 3% on a reported basis (6% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Declining sales in the companys line of peripheral vascular grafts impacted both 2008 and 2007 results. Declining sales in the companys line of dialysis access grafts also impacted 2007 results. Urology Products Bard markets a wide range of products for the urology market, including basic drainage products, continence products, urological specialty products and infection control products. Bard also markets StatLock&reg; catheter stabilization products, which are used to secure many types of catheters sold by Bard and other companies. Consolidated net sales in 2008 of urology products increased 8% on a reported basis (7% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. United States net sales represented 72% of consolidated net sales in 2008 and grew 7% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2008 increased 8% on a reported basis (7% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales in 2007 of urology products increased 13% on a reported basis (11% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. United States net sales represented 72% of consolidated net sales in 2007 and grew 13% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2007 increased 14% on a reported basis (8% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. The StatLock&reg; catheter stabilization product line was acquired in April 2006. Basic drainage products represent the core of the companys urology business. Consolidated net sales in 2008 of basic drainage products increased 9% on both a reported basis and constant currency basis compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales in 2008 of infection control Foley catheter products grew 16% on both a reported basis and constant currency basis. Consolidated net sales in 2007 of basic drainage products increased 7% on a reported basis (6% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales in 2007 of infection control Foley catheter products grew 12% on both a reported basis and a constant currency basis compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales in 2008 of urological specialty products, which include brachytherapy products and services, decreased 4% on a reported basis (5% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales in 2007 of urological specialty products grew 5% on a reported basis (3% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. The decrease in 2008 in sales of urological specialty products was primarily driven by a decline in brachytherapy sales. The company believes that the brachytherapy market has been losing procedural share to alternative therapies, a trend that may continue. Consolidated net sales in 2008 of continence products increased 4% on both a reported basis and constant currency basis compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales in 2007 of continence products increased 13% on a reported basis (10% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. The companys surgical sling line was a primary growth driver in the category in both 2008 and 2007. The companys pelvic floor reconstruction product line was also a growth driver in 2007. Consolidated net sales in 2008 of the Statlock&reg; catheter stabilization product line increased 26% on a reported basis (25% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales in 2007 of the StatLock&reg; catheter stabilization product line increased 110% on a reported basis (109% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. The StatLock&reg; catheter stabilization product line was acquired in April 2006. Oncology Products The companys oncology products include specialty access products used primarily for chemotherapy. Consolidated net sales in 2008 of oncology products grew 16% on a reported basis (15% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. United States net sales in 2008 grew 16% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2008 grew 14% on a reported basis (10% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales in 2007 of oncology products grew 16% on a reported basis (14% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. United States net sales in 2007 grew 16% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2007 grew 15% on a reported basis (8% on a constant II 5 Table of Contents currency basis) compared to the prior year. Sales of specialty access ports, peripherally inserted central catheters (PICC) and vascular access ultrasound devices were the primary growth drivers in the oncology category in both 2008 and 2007. Surgical Specialty Products Surgical specialty products include soft tissue repair, performance irrigation and hemostasis product lines. Consolidated net sales in 2008 of surgical specialty products increased 1% on a reported basis (flat on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. United States net sales in 2008 decreased 2% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2008 increased 12% on a reported basis (8% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales in 2007 of surgical specialty products increased 2% on a reported basis (flat on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. United States net sales in 2007 decreased 1% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2007 increased 12% on a reported basis (5% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. The companys soft tissue repair product line, which includes hernia repair implants and hernia fixation products, comprised 74% of 2008 consolidated net sales of surgical specialty products. Consolidated net sales in 2008 of soft tissue repair products decreased 1% on a reported basis (2% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year due primarily to: (i) the effect of the hold on the manufacture and the subsequent discontinuance of the sale of the companys Salute II hernia fixation device; and (ii) low growth of the companys hernia repair implants. Consolidated net sales in 2007 of soft tissue repair products grew 2% on a reported basis (1% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year due primarily to: (i) the effect of the companys decision in 2007 to initiate both a voluntary recall and a withdrawal of the companys reusable Salute hernia fixation device from the market; (ii) a constrained supply of the companys disposable Salute II hernia fixation device due to product component issues; and (iii) low growth of the companys hernia repair implants following the Composix&reg; Kugel&reg; patch recall in 2005 and expansions of that recall. The challenges in the soft tissue repair product line may continue. On December 29, 2005, the company initiated a voluntary Class I product recall of its Bard&reg; Composix&reg; Kugel&reg; Mesh X Large Patch intended for ventral hernia repair. Following the recall, the FDA conducted an inspection and issued a Form 483 notice to the companys Davol, Inc. subsidiary identifying certain observations. The company completed corrective actions to address the observations. On March 15, 2006, the company voluntarily expanded the December 29, 2005 recall to include certain manufacturing lots of the large Composix&reg; Kugel&reg; patch and large Composix&reg; circle. In December 2006, the company decided to voluntarily expand the March recall to include additional manufacturing lots and initiated the expanded recall on January 10, 2007. Following the expanded recall, the FDA conducted a follow up inspection and issued a Form 483 notice to Davol identifying certain observations regarding Davols quality systems. The company completed corrective actions to address the observations. On April 25, 2007, Davol received a Warning Letter from the New England District Office of the FDA resulting from the follow up inspection. The Warning Letter related specifically to non conformances in Davols quality systems previously identified in the related Form 483. The Warning Letter stated that, until Davol resolves the outstanding issues covered by the Warning Letter, no premarket submissions for Class III devices to which the non conformances are reasonably related will be cleared or approved. Davol presently has no such submissions before the FDA. The company responded to the Warning Letter and completed corrective actions to address the observations. The FDA conducted a planned re inspection of the Davol facility in 2008, which resulted in the issuance of a Form 483 notice. The company responded to the FDAs observations and has completed corrective actions to address them. The FDA recently notified the company that it was satisfied with the companys responses to the Form 483 notices. The company cannot, however, give any assurance as to the expected date of resolution of the matters included in the Warning Letter. For more information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. II 6 Table of Contents On February 13, 2008, the FDA issued a Form 483 notice to the company in connection with an inspection of the companys manufacturing facility located in Humacao, Puerto Rico. The Form 483 notice identified certain observations regarding the facilitys quality systems. The facility manufactures products for many of the companys divisions and subsidiaries, including soft tissue repair products for the companys Davol subsidiary. The company has responded to the FDA and completed corrective actions to these observations. On July 28, 2008, the company received a Warning Letter from the San Juan District office of the FDA. The Warning Letter related specifically to non conformances in quality systems previously identified in the related Form 483 notice. The Warning Letter stated that, until the company resolves the outstanding issues covered by the Warning Letter, no premarket submissions for Class III devices to which the non conformances are reasonably related will be cleared or approved. The company presently has no such submissions before the FDA. The company has responded to the Warning Letter and completed corrective actions to address the observations. However, the company cannot give any assurances that the FDA will be satisfied with its response to the Warning Letter and the associated corrective actions or as to the expected date of resolution of the matters included in the Warning Letter. For more information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Other Products The other product group includes irrigation, wound drainage and certain original equipment manufacturers products. Consolidated net sales in 2008 of other products increased 5% on both a reported basis and constant currency basis compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales in 2007 of other products increased 3% on a reported basis (1% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Costs and Expenses The following is a summary of major costs and expenses as a percentage of net sales for the following years ended December 31: 2008 2007 2006 Cost of goods sold 38.9 % 39.3 % 38.8 % Marketing, selling and administrative expense 28.9 % 29.3 % 31.1 % Research and development expense 8.1 % 6.2 % 7.3 % Interest expense 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.9 % Other expense (income), net 1.2 % (1.5 )% 2.0 % Total costs and expenses 77.6 % 73.8 % 80.1 % Cost of goods sold Cost of goods sold consists principally of the manufacturing and distribution costs of the companys products. The category also includes royalties and the amortization of intangible assets. The companys cost of goods sold as a percentage of net sales for 2008 was 38.9%, a decrease of 40 basis points from the cost of goods sold as a percentage of net sales for 2007 of 39.3%. Reductions in cost of goods sold as a percentage of net sales were attributed primarily to cost improvements partially offset by the impact of incremental amortization of intangible assets acquired in 2008 of approximately 40 basis points. The companys cost of goods sold as a percentage of net sales for 2007 was 39.3%, an increase of 50 basis points from the cost of goods sold as a percentage of net sales for 2006 of 38.8%. The impact of incremental amortization of intangible assets acquired in 2007 contributed approximately 20 basis points of this increase. Marketing, selling and administrative expense Marketing, selling and administrative expense consists principally of the costs associated with the companys sales and administrative organizations. The companys marketing, selling and administrative costs as a percentage of net sales for 2008 were 28.9%, a decrease of 40 basis points from the prior year due primarily to controlled administrative spending. The companys marketing, selling and administrative costs as a percentage of net sales for 2007 was 29.3%, a decrease of 180 basis points from the prior year due primarily to controlled administrative spending. Research and development expense Research and development expense consists principally of the costs related to internal research and development activities, milestone payments for third party research and development activities and purchased R&D arising from the companys business development activities. Purchased II 7 Table of Contents R&D payments may impact the comparability of the companys results of operations between periods. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. The following table presents the breakdown of the companys research and development expense for the following years ended December 31: 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in millions) Research and development $ 149.8 $ 134.2 $ 120.9 Purchased research and development 49.3 1.6 24.0 Total research and development expense $ 199.1 $ 135.8 $ 144.9 Research and development expense in 2008 of $199.1 million represented an 47% increase versus the prior years expense of $135.8 million. Included in the research and development expense for 2008 was purchased R&D of approximately $49.3 million primarily associated with the acquisition of the Lifestent &reg; family of stents from Edwards Lifesciences. Research and development expense in 2007 of $135.8 million represented a 6.3% decrease versus the prior years expenditures of $144.9 million. Included in the research and development expense for 2006 was purchased R&D of approximately $24.0 million. Interest expense Interest expense in 2008 was $12.1 million as compared with 2007 interest expense of $11.9 million and 2006 interest expense of $16.9 million. The decline in interest expense in 2007 was the result of decreased borrowings outside the United States. Other expense (income), net Other expense (income), net was $29.4 million, $(32.3) million and $40.4 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These amounts include interest income of $16.5 million, $30.7 million and $27.9 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decrease in 2008 was primarily due to lower interest rates. The increase in 2007 was due primarily to higher balance of cash and cash equivalents. Other expense (income), net in 2008 also included a non cash charge of $36.8 million related to the write off of certain assets as a result of the companys decision to discontinue the sales of the Salute II hernia fixation device. See Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures of the notes to consolidated financial statements. Other expense (income), net in 2006 also included charges associated with legal settlements of approximately $69.0 million for previously disclosed legal actions. See Note 12, Other Expense (Income), Net of the notes to consolidated financial statements. Income tax provision The companys effective tax rate for 2008 decreased to approximately 24% compared to approximately 30% for 2007. The decrease was due to certain tax positions being effectively settled or remeasured as a result of completion of the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examination for the tax years of 2003 and 2004. Two tax positions remain under review through the IRS administrative appeals process related to these years. The lower tax rate also reflected the tax effect of purchased R&D charges, primarily associated with the acquisition of the assets of the Lifestent&reg; family of stents from Edwards Lifesciences, partially offset by the tax effect of the Salute II charge. The tax effect of the Salute II charge reflected the write off of assets, which were primarily located in a low tax jurisdiction. See Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures of the notes to consolidated financial statements. As a result of the retroactive application of the research tax credit under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the income tax provision for the year was reduced by approximately $2.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The companys effective tax rate increased by approximately 10% in 2007 from approximately 20% in 2006 primarily related to the impact of the reduction of the income tax provision in 2006 of approximately $23.8 million due to the expiration of the statute of limitations in the United States for the 2000 through 2002 tax years and the resolution of the U.K. audit for the 1999 through 2003 tax years, as well as changes in the mix of income among tax jurisdictions. II 8 Table of Contents Net Income and Earnings per Share The company reported 2008 consolidated net income of $416.5 million, an increase of 2% from 2007 consolidated net income of $406.4 million. The company reported 2008 diluted earnings per share of $4.06, an increase of 6% from 2007 diluted earnings per share of $3.84. Net income in 2008 reflected a non cash charge for the write off of assets related to the Salute II hernia fixation device of $34.9 million after tax, or $0.34 per diluted share, and purchased R&D charges of $31.1 million after tax, or $0.30 per diluted share, primarily associated with the acquisition of the assets of the Lifestent&reg; family of stents from Edwards Lifesciences. These items were partially offset by a reduction in the income tax provision of $28.3 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, as a result of the completion of the IRS examination for the tax years of 2003 and 2004. The company reported 2007 consolidated net income of $406.4 million, an increase of 49% from 2006 consolidated net income of $272.1 million. The company reported 2007 diluted earnings per share of $3.84, an increase of 51% from 2006 diluted earnings per share of $2.55. Net income in 2006 reflected the impact of legal settlements of $43.1 million after tax, or $0.40 per diluted share, purchased R&D charges of $19.5 million after tax, or $0.18 per diluted share, and discontinued operations of $42.4 million after tax, or $0.40 per diluted share. These items were partially offset by a reduction in the income tax provision of $23.8 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, predominately due to the expiration of the statute of limitations in the United States for the 2000 through 2002 tax years. Liquidity and Capital Resources The company assesses its liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities. Significant factors affecting the management of liquidity are: cash flows generated from operating activities, capital expenditures, acquisitions of businesses and technologies, cash dividends and common stock repurchases. Cash balances and cash provided from operations continue to be the companys primary source of funds. Although the global financial markets and worldwide economies continue to experience extreme disruption and volatility, the company believes that its overall financial strength gives it sufficient financing flexibility. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. The table below summarizes liquidity measures for Bard for the following years ended December 31: 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 592.1 $ 488.4 $ 416.2 Working capital 1,081.1 960.3 844.6 Current ratio 4.96/1 4.41/1 3.92/1 For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the company generated cash flow from continuing operations of $516.2 million, $547.4 million and $330.2 million, respectively. Income from continuing operations was $416.5 million, $406.4 million and $314.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decrease in cash flows from continuing operations in 2008 was due primarily to increases in accounts receivable and inventories. The increase in cash flows from continuing operations in 2007 was due primarily to improvements in working capital balances, as well as decreases in income tax payments. During 2008, the company used $151.9 million in cash for investing activities from continuing operations, $39.4 million more than in 2007. During 2007, the company used $112.5 million in cash for investing activities from continuing operations, $245.0 million less than in 2006. Net cash provided by the change in short term investments, net, which matured in 2008, was $82.1 million compared with the net cash provided of $18.6 million in 2007. Capital expenditures amounted to $50.6 million, $50.7 million and $70.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The company spent approximately $185.2 million in 2008, $83.6 million in 2007 and $191.9 million in 2006 for the acquisition of businesses, products and II 9 Table of Contents technologies to augment its existing product lines. These cash expenditures were financed primarily with cash on hand and from operations. During 2008, the company used $216.0 million in cash for financing activities from continuing operations, $170.7 million less than in 2007. During 2007, the company used $386.7 million in cash for financing activities from continuing operations, $58.3 million more than in 2006. Total debt was $149.8 million, $150.6 million and $150.6 million at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Total debt to total capitalization was 7.0%, 7.5% and 8.1% at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The company spent approximately $227.0 million to repurchase 2,361,492 shares of common stock in 2008 compared to $422.8 million to repurchase 5,115,138 shares and $201.3 million to repurchase 2,787,600 shares in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The company paid cash dividends of $62.2 million, $60.1 million and $56.3 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The company maintains a committed syndicated bank credit facility with a $400 million five year credit agreement that expires in June 2012. The credit facility supports the companys commercial paper program and can be used for general corporate purposes. The facility includes pricing based on the companys long term credit rating and includes a financial covenant that limits the amount of total debt to total capitalization. There were no outstanding borrowings or commercial paper borrowings at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. During the third quarter of 2008, Moodys Investor Services upgraded the companys long term debt rating to A3 from Baa1 and affirmed the companys short term rating of P 2. At December 31, 2008, the companys long term debt was rated A, and its short term debt was rated A 1 by Standard and Poors. Contractual Obligations A summary of contractual obligations at December 31, 2008 are as follows: (dollars in millions) Total 1Year 2 3Years 4 5Years 5+Years Forward contracts $ 73.9 $ 73.9 $ $ $ Long term debt 330.5 10.0 20.1 20.1 280.3 Operating lease obligations 117.5 21.2 33.9 15.3 47.1 Acquisition and investment milestones 62.2 54.7 7.5 Purchase obligations 179.6 142.5 28.5 6.1 2.5 Other long term liabilities 73.5 6.2 12.3 11.1 43.9 $ 837.2 $ 308.5 $ 102.3 $ 52.6 $ 373.8 The table above does not include $41.3 million of the total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions and approximately $8.7 million of associated accrued interest. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of potential future cash flows, the company is unable to make a reasonable estimate of the amount and period in which these liabilities might be paid. Forward contracts Forward contracts obligate the company for the forward purchase of currencies in which the company has known or anticipated sales or payments. Long term debt Long term debt includes expected principal and interest payments. The company has $149.8 million of unsecured notes that mature in 2026 and pay a semi annual coupon of 6.7%. Operating lease obligations The company is committed under noncancelable operating leases involving certain facilities and equipment. Acquisition and investment milestones The company enters into various acquisition and investment arrangements, including research and development arrangements, product and intellectual property acquisitions II 10 Table of Contents and business combinations. In connection with some of these activities, the company agrees to make payments to third parties when milestones are achieved, such as the achievement of research and development targets, receipt of regulatory approvals or achievement of performance or operational targets. Such payments, when made, are allocated to specific intangible asset categories, assigned to excess of cost over net assets acquired or charged to research and development, depending on the nature of the arrangement. Purchase obligations The companys business creates a need to enter into commitments with suppliers. These inventory purchase commitments do not exceed the companys projected requirements over the related terms and are in the normal course of business. Other long term liabilities The companys estimate of required funding obligations related to its pension and postretirement benefit plans and deferred compensation. Managements Use of Non GAAP Measures Net sales on a constant currency basis is a non GAAP financial measure. The company analyzes net sales on a constant currency basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods. Because changes in foreign currency exchange rates have a non operating impact on net sales, the company believes that evaluating growth in net sales on a constant currency basis provides an additional and meaningful assessment of net sales to both management and the companys investors. Constant currency growth rates are calculated by translating the prior years local currency sales by the current periods exchange rate. Constant currency growth rates are not indicative of changes in corresponding cash flows. The limitation of these non GAAP measures is that they do not reflect results on a standardized reporting basis. Non GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP disclosures and should not be viewed as a replacement for GAAP results. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements requires the companys management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Critical accounting policies are those that require application of managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. The following is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of the companys accounting policies. The companys significant accounting policies are more fully described in the companys notes to consolidated financial statements. See Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies of the notes to consolidated financial statements. The critical accounting policies described below are areas in which managements judgment in selecting an available alternative might produce a materially different result. Revenue recognition Generally, sales to end user customers and European distributors are recognized at the point of delivery, and sales to domestic distributors are recognized at the time of shipment. In certain circumstances, end user customers may require the company to maintain consignment inventory at the customers location. In the case of consignment inventories, revenues and associated costs are recognized upon the notification of usage by the customer. Share Based Compensation The company accounts for share based compensation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, Share Based Payment (FAS 123R). Under this statement, share based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the value of the award and is recognized as expense over the vesting period. In order to determine the fair value of stock options on the date of grant, the company utilizes a binomial model. Inherent in the binomial model are assumptions related to expected stock price volatility, option life, risk free interest rate and dividend yield. The risk free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at grant date with a term equal to the expected term of the stock option. II 11 Table of Contents The companys expected volatility is based upon weightings of the historical volatility of the companys stock and the implied volatility from publicly traded options. The company reviews the trading volumes and option life of its publicly traded options in order to determine the appropriate weighting of implied volatility. This approach is used as a predictor of future realized and implied volatilities and is directly related to stock option valuations. With respect to the weighted average option life assumption, the company considers the exercise behavior of past grants and models the pattern of aggregate exercises. As share based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated statement of income is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, the amount of expense has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. FAS 123R requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures were estimated based on historical experience. Contingencies The company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including, for example, product liability matters, environmental matters, employment disputes, disputes on agreements and other commercial disputes, the outcomes of which are not within the companys complete control and may not be known for extended periods of time. In some cases, the claimants seek damages, as well as other relief, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures. The company records a liability in its consolidated financial statements for damages and or costs related to claims, settlements and judgments where the company has assessed that the loss is probable and an amount can be reasonably estimated. If the estimate of a probable loss is a range and no amount within the range is more likely, the company accrues the minimum amount of the range. The company records a receivable from its product liability insurance carriers when those recoveries are probable and collectible. There is no guarantee, however, that amounts will be adequate to cover damages and or costs, that insurers will be able to pay claims or that coverage will otherwise be available. Legal costs associated with these matters are expensed as incurred. See Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies of the notes to consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes The company operates in multiple taxing jurisdictions, both within the United States and outside the United States. The company has filed tax returns with positions that may be challenged by the tax authorities. These positions relate to, among others, transfer pricing, the deductibility of certain expenses, intercompany transactions and other matters. Effective January 1, 2007, the company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). See Note 3 Income Taxes of the notes to consolidated financial statements. Although the outcome of tax audits is uncertain, in managements opinion, adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for potential liabilities resulting from such matters. The recognition and measurement of a tax position is based on the companys best judgment given the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. The company regularly assesses its tax positions and includes reserves for uncertain tax positions. The reserves are utilized or reversed once the statute of limitations has expired or the position is effectively settled. The company believes that the ultimate outcome of these matters will not have a material impact on its financial position or liquidity but may be material to the income tax provision and net income in a future period. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts, Customer Rebates and Inventory Writedowns The company makes estimates of the uncollectibility of the companys accounts receivable, amounts that are rebated to specific customers in accordance with contractual requirements and inventory adjustments to reflect inventory valuation at the lower of cost or market. In estimating the reserves necessary for the allowance for doubtful accounts, management considers historical bad debt trends, customer concentrations, customer creditworthiness and current economic trends. The company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated amounts that are uncollectible from customers. In estimating the allowance for customer rebates, management considers the lag time between the point of sale and the payment of the customers rebate claim, customer specific trend analysis and contractual commitments including the stated rebate rate. The company establishes an allowance for customer rebates and reduces sales for such rebate amounts. In estimating the adjustment for inventory writedowns, management considers product obsolescence, quantity on hand, future demand for the product and II 12 Table of Contents other market related conditions. The company records an adjustment for inventory writedowns when such conditions cause the inventory market value to be below carrying value. The company records such adjustments to cost of sales in the period in which the condition exists. It is possible that the underlying factors discussed above for the allowance for doubtful accounts, customer rebates and inventory writedowns could change. Depending on the extent and nature of the change to the underlying factors, the impact to the companys financial position and results of operations could be material in the period of change. Acquisitions The company accounts for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting, which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of net assets is recorded as goodwill. Purchased R&D is expensed at the date of acquisition if technological feasibility has not been established and no alternative future use exists. The amount of the purchase price allocated to purchased R&D and other intangible assets is determined by estimating the future cash flows of each project or technology and discounting the net cash flows back to their present values. The discount rate used is determined at the time of the acquisition in accordance with accepted valuation methods. For purchased R&D, these methodologies include consideration of the risk of the project not achieving commercial feasibility. When the company acquires net assets that do not constitute a business under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, no goodwill is recognized. The judgments made in determining fair value assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact results of operations. Impairment of Long Lived Assets Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if changes in circumstances or the occurrence of events suggest an impairment exists. Intangible assets other than goodwill and other long lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The company evaluates the recoverability of assets to be held and used by comparing the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized in the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. Pension Plans The company sponsors pension plans covering substantially all domestic employees and certain foreign employees who meet eligibility requirements. Several statistical and other factors that attempt to anticipate future events are used in calculating the expense and liability related to the plans. These factors include assumptions about the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of future compensation increases as determined by the company. In addition, the companys actuarial consultants also use subjective factors, such as withdrawal and mortality rates, to estimate these factors. The actuarial assumptions used by the company may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of the participants. A change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $1.0 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on the companys net pension cost. A change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the expected rate of return on plan assets assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $0.6 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on the companys net pension cost. New Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (FAS 157), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements. FAS 157 was effective beginning in Bards 2008 fiscal year, except for nonfinancial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non recurring basis for which it will be effective at the beginning of Bards 2009 fiscal year. The impact of the adoption of FAS 157 was not material to the companys consolidated financial statements and the adoption of the items deferred until fiscal 2009 is not expected to be material. II 13 Table of Contents In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (FAS 141R) and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements (FAS 160). FAS 141R requires an acquirer to measure the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at their fair value on the acquisition date, with goodwill being the excess value of consideration paid over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired. Among the new requirements, FAS 141R requires that acquired in process research and development be capitalized and recorded as an intangible asset at the acquisition date, that contingent consideration be recorded at fair value on the acquisition date, and that transaction costs are to be expensed. FAS 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. FAS 141R and FAS 160 will be effective as of the beginning of Bards 2009 fiscal year. The effects of FAS 141R will depend on future acquisitions. The impact of the adoption of FAS 160 is not expected to be material to the companys consolidated financial statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (FAS 161), which requires enhanced disclosures about a companys derivative and hedging activities. FAS 161 will be effective as of the beginning of Bards 2009 fiscal year. The company will adopt the enhanced disclosures as required by FAS 161. In June 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. EITF 03 6 1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities (FSP EITF 03 6 1). The FSP addresses whether awards granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and therefore need to be included in the earnings allocation in computing earnings per share using the two class method under SFAS No. 128, Earnings per Share. The FSP requires unvested share based payment awards that have non forfeitable rights to dividend or dividend equivalents to be treated as a separate class of securities in calculating earnings per share. FSP EITF 03 6 1 will be effective as of the beginning of Bards 2009 fiscal year and will be retrospectively applied to all prior periods presented. The company does not expect the adoption of the FSP to have a material effect on earnings per share. In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 132(R) 1, Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets (FSP FAS 132(R) 1). The FSP requires additional disclosures about plan assets for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. FSP FAS 132(R) 1 will be effective as of the end of Bards 2009 fiscal year. The company will include the additional disclosures about pension plan assets as required by the FSP. Risks and Uncertainties; Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Information Certain statements contained herein or in other company documents and certain statements that may be made by management of the company orally may contain forward looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, forecast, plan, believe and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to product approvals, future performance of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. The companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements. In addition, there are substantial risks inherent in the medical device business. The companys business involves the design, development, manufacture, packaging, distribution and sale of life sustaining medical devices. These devices are often utilized on, or permanently or temporarily implanted in, patients in clinically demanding circumstances, such as operating rooms, emergency units, intensive care and critical care settings, among others. These circumstances, among other factors, can cause the products to become associated with adverse clinical events, including patient mortality and injury, and could lead to product liability claims (including lawsuits seeking class action status or seeking to establish multi district litigation proceedings) and other litigation, product withdrawals, Warning Letters, recalls, field corrections or regulatory enforcement actions relating to one or more of the companys products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. II 14 Table of Contents Because actual results are affected by these and other risks and uncertainties, the company cautions investors that actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. It is not possible to predict or identify all risks and uncertainties, but the most significant factors, in addition to those addressed above and those under Item 1A. Risk Factors, that could adversely affect our business or cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include, but are not limited to: Effective management of and reaction to risks involved in our business, including: the ability to achieve manufacturing or administrative efficiencies, including gross margin benefits from our manufacturing process and supply chain programs or in connection with the integration of acquired businesses; the effects of negative publicity concerning our products, which could result in product withdrawals or decreased product demand and which could reduce market or governmental acceptance of our products; the ability to identify appropriate companies, businesses and technologies as potential acquisition candidates, to consummate and successfully integrate such transactions or to obtain agreements for such transactions with favorable terms; the reduction in the number of procedures using our devices caused by customers cost containment pressures or preferences for alternate therapies; the ability to maintain or increase research and development expenditures; the uncertainty of whether increased research and development expenditures and sales force expansion will result in increased sales; the ability to maintain our effective tax rate and uncertainty related to tax audits, appeals and litigation; internal factors, such as retention of key employees, including sales force employees; the ability to achieve earnings forecasts, which are generated based, among other things, on projected volumes and sales of many product types, some of which are more profitable than others; changes in factors and assumptions employed in the application of FAS 123R or actual results that differ from our assumptions on stock valuation and employee stock option exercise patterns, which could cause compensation expense recorded in future periods to differ significantly from the compensation expense recorded in the current period and, as a result, materially impact the companys results of operations; changes in factors and assumptions employed in the application of FAS 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, could cause pension cost recorded in future periods to differ from the pension expense recorded in the current period and, as a result, materially impact the companys results of operations; the effect of market fluctuations on the value of assets in the companys pension plans and the possibility that the company may need to make additional contributions to the plans as a result of any decline in the fair value of such assets; damage to a company facility, which could render the company unable to manufacture one or more products (as the company may utilize only one manufacturing facility for certain of its major products) and may require the company to reduce the output of products at the damaged facility thereby making it difficult to meet product shipping targets; the potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets of the company resulting from insufficient cash flow generated from such assets specifically, or our business more broadly, so as to not allow the company to justify the carrying value of the assets; the ability to obtain appropriate levels of product liability insurance on reasonable terms; and the ability to recover claims from insurance companies. II 15 Table of Contents Competitive factors, including: the trend of consolidation in the medical device industry as well as among our customers, resulting in potentially greater pricing pressures and more significant and complex contracts than in the past, both in the United States and abroad; development of new products or technologies by competitors having superior performance compared to our current products or products under development, which could negatively impact sales of our products or render one or more of our products obsolete; technological advances, patents and registrations obtained by competitors that would have the effect of excluding the company from new market segments or preventing the company from selling a product or including key features in the companys products; attempts by competitors to gain market share through aggressive marketing programs; and reprocessing by third party reprocessors of our products designed and labeled for single use. Difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, including: the ability to complete planned clinical trials successfully, to develop and obtain regulatory approval for products on a timely basis and to launch products on a timely basis within cost estimates; lengthy and costly regulatory approval processes, which may result in lost market opportunities; delays or denials of, or grants of low or reduced levels of reimbursement for, procedures using newly developed products; the suspension or revocation of authority to manufacture, market or distribute existing products; the imposition of additional or different regulatory requirements, such as those affecting manufacturing and labeling; performance, efficacy or safety concerns for existing products, whether scientifically justified or not, that may lead to product discontinuations, product withdrawals, recalls, field corrections, regulatory enforcement actions, litigation or declining sales, including adverse events relating to the companys vena cava filters and hernia repair products; FDA inspections resulting in FDA Form 483 notices and or Warning Letters identifying deficiencies in the companys current good manufacturing practices and or quality systems; Warning Letters identifying violations of FDA regulations that could result in product holds, recalls, restrictions on future clearances by the FDA and or civil penalties; the failure to obtain, limitations on the use of, or the loss of, patent and other intellectual property rights, and the failure of efforts to protect our intellectual property rights against infringement and legal challenges that can increase our costs; difficulties obtaining necessary components or raw materials used in the companys products and or price increases from the companys suppliers of critical components or raw materials, including oil based resins or other interruptions of the supply chain; and customers that may limit the number of manufacturers or vendors from which they will purchase products, which can result in the companys inability to sell products to or contract with large hospital systems, integrated delivery networks or group purchasing organizations. Governmental action, including: the impact of continued healthcare cost containment; new laws and judicial decisions related to healthcare availability, payment for healthcare products and services or the marketing and distribution of products, including legislative or administrative reforms to II 16 Table of Contents the United States Medicare and Medicaid systems or other United States or international reimbursement systems in a manner that would significantly reduce or eliminate reimbursements for procedures that use the companys products; changes in the FDA and or foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; the impact of more vigorous compliance and enforcement activities affecting the healthcare industry in general or the company in particular; changes in the tax or environmental laws or standards affecting our business; changes in the law that could require facility upgrades or process changes and could affect production rates and output; and compliance costs and potential penalties and remediation obligations in connection with environmental laws, including regulations regarding air emissions, waste water discharges and solid waste. Legal disputes, including: disputes over intellectual property rights; product liability claims, including lawsuits seeking class action status or seeking to establish multi district litigation proceedings, including with respect to our Composix&reg; Kugel&reg; and certain other core hernia repair products; claims asserting securities law violations; claims asserting, and or subpoenas seeking information regarding, violations of law in connection with federal and or state healthcare programs such as Medicare or Medicaid; derivative shareholder actions; claims and subpoenas asserting antitrust violations; environmental claims, including risks relating to accidental contamination or injury from the use of hazardous materials in the companys manufacturing, sterilization and research activities and the potential for the company to be held liable for any resulting damages; and commercial disputes, including disputes over distribution agreements, license agreements, manufacturing/supply agreements, development/research agreements, acquisition or sale agreements, and insurance policies. General economic conditions, including: international and domestic business conditions; political or economic instability in foreign countries; interest rates; foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the rate of inflation; and instability of global financial markets and economies. Other factors beyond our control, including catastrophes, both natural and man made, earthquakes, floods, fires, explosions, acts of terrorism or war. II 17 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Bard operates on a global basis and therefore is subject to the exposures that arise from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The company manages these exposures using operational and economic hedges as well as derivative financial instruments. The companys foreign currency exposures may change over time as changes occur in the companys international operations. The companys objective in managing its exposures to foreign currency fluctuations is to minimize earnings and cash flow volatility associated with assets, liabilities, net investments and probable commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the company will from time to time enter into derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of its expected foreign currency denominated cash flow from operations. The instruments that the company uses for hedging are forward contracts and options with major financial institutions. The company expects that the changes in fair market value of such contracts will have a high correlation to the price changes in the related hedged cash flow. The principal currencies the company hedges are the Euro, the British Pound, the Mexican Peso and the Japanese Yen. Any gains and losses on these hedge contracts are expected to offset changes in the value of the related exposure. Bards risk management guidelines prohibit entering into financial instruments for speculative purposes. The company enters into foreign currency transactions only to the extent that foreign currency exposure exists. A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all foreign exchange derivative contracts at December 31, 2008 indicates that if the U.S. dollar uniformly strengthened by 10% against all currencies, the fair value of these contracts would increase by $3.4 million, and if the U.S. dollar uniformly weakened by 10% against all currencies, the fair value of these contracts would decrease by $2.1 million. Any gains and losses on the fair value of derivative contracts would be largely offset by gains and losses on the underlying transactions. These offsetting gains and losses are not reflected in the above analysis. In December 1996, the company issued $150.0 million of 6.70% notes due 2026. Note holders had a one time option to redeem the notes at par value on December 1, 2006. In the fourth quarter of 2006, approximately $0.2 million of the notes were redeemed. The market value of the notes approximated $158.1 million at December 31, 2008. Assuming a 100 basis point increase or decrease in U.S. interest rates and assuming that the notes are held to maturity, the market value of the notes would have approximated $142.5 million or $176.1 million, respectively, on December 31, 2008. II 18 Table of Contents MANAGEMENTS REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Management of the company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a 15(f) and 15d 15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The companys internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Management assessed the effectiveness of the companys internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment and those criteria, management believes that the company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. The companys independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of the companys internal control over financial reporting. That report appears on page II 22. II 19 Table of Contents 
 
