Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Overview The company designs, manufactures, packages, distributes and sells medical, surgical, diagnostic and patient care devices. The company sells a broad range of products to hospitals, individual healthcare professionals, extended care facilities and alternate site facilities on a global basis. Outside the United States, Europe and Japan are the companys largest markets, while certain emerging markets in Asia and Latin America are the companys fastest growing markets. In general, the companys products are intended to be used once and then discarded or implanted either temporarily or permanently. The company reports sales in four major product group categories: vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialties. The company also has a product group of other products. The companys earnings are driven by its ability to continue to generate sales of its products and improve operating efficiency. Bards ability to increase sales over time depends upon its success in developing, acquiring and marketing differentiated products that meet the needs of clinicians and their patients. In 2011, the companys research and development (R&D) expense as a percentage of net sales was 6.4%. The company expects R&D expense as a percentage of net sales to increase in future years. The company also makes selective acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, generally focusing on small to medium sized transactions to provide ongoing growth opportunities. In addition, the company may from time to time consider acquisitions of larger, established companies. The company may also periodically divest lines of business in which it is not able to reasonably attain or maintain a leadership position in the market or for other strategic reasons. The company spent $557.2 million in 2011, including acquired in process R&D (IPR&D), for the acquisition of businesses, products and technologies. Acquisitions and Other Initiatives On December 16, 2011, the company acquired Lutonix, Inc. (Lutonix), a development stage company specializing in drug coated balloon technology for the treatment of peripheral arterial disease. The total purchase consideration of $298.0 million included an upfront cash payment of $228.0 million and the fair value of contingent consideration of $70.0 million. The contingent consideration, which could total $100 million, consists of a milestone payment related to Pre Market Approval of Lutonixs drug coated percutaneous transluminal angioplasty balloon. On November 10, 2011, the company acquired Medivance, Inc. (Medivance) for total consideration of $255.5 million. Medivance develops and sells critical care products in the Targeted Temperature Management area. Medivances core product is the ArticSun&reg;, a noninvasive technology that utilizes a proprietary system that incorporates a hydrogel adhesive pad to control a patients core body temperature at a targeted level. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the company acquired all of the outstanding shares of ClearStream Technologies Group plc (ClearStream) for total consideration of $69.1 million. ClearStream, based in Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford, Ireland, develops and sells proprietary products used in angioplasty. For more information on acquisitions, see Note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. On February 10, 2012, the company announced that the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Court of Appeals) affirmed the decision of the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona in the companys patent infringement suit against W.L. Gore & Associates (Gore), which found, among other things, that Gore willfully infringed the companys patent number 6,436,135 by selling certain ePTFE vascular grafts and stent grafts. Gore may request that the Court of Appeals re hear its appeal and or may request a review of the decision by the U.S. Supreme Court. On January 27, 2012, the company announced that it had reached a preliminary agreement with the civil and criminal divisions of the United States Attorneys Office for the Northern District of Georgia to resolve claims with respect to the investigation of the companys brachytherapy business (the Brachytherapy Matter). In connection with this preliminary agreement, the company recorded to other (income) expense, net, a charge of approximately $51.0 million ($40.8 million after tax) in the fourth quarter of 2011. The ultimate settlement of this matter is subject to the negotiation and execution of definitive agreements, which will likely include civil II 3 Table of Contents settlement and non prosecution agreements, and a corporate integrity agreement with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General. During the second half of 2011, the company initiated certain restructuring actions in order to improve its overall cost structure and enhance operational effectiveness. These actions included the realignment of certain sales functions in the United States. In connection with these actions, the company recorded employee separation costs, net, under the companys existing severance programs of $10.4 million ($6.9 million after tax). Substantially all of these costs are expected to be cash expenditures. The company expects these restructuring costs to result in pre tax cost savings of approximately $16 million on an annual basis. See Note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. On June 30, 2011, the company announced that it had reached agreements in principle with various plaintiffs law firms to settle the majority of its existing Hernia Product Claims (see Note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements). Based on these events, the company recorded to other (income) expense, net, a charge of $184.3 million ($180.6 million after tax) in the second quarter of 2011 which recognized the estimated costs of settling all Hernia Product Claims, including asserted and unasserted claims, and costs to administer the settlements. The charge excludes any costs associated with pending putative class action lawsuits. During 2011, the company made payments of $149.2 million to qualified settlement funds (QSFs), subject to settlement conditions, for certain of these claims. Payments to QSFs were recorded as a component of restricted cash at December 31, 2011. Total payments of $2.1 million from these QSFs have been made to qualified claimants during 2011. All of the settlement amounts were funded or are expected to be funded using cash from a foreign subsidiary that manufactured these products. Results of Operations Net Sales Bards 2011 consolidated net sales increased 6% on a reported basis (5% on a constant currency basis) over 2010 consolidated net sales. Bards 2010 consolidated net sales increased 7% on both a reported basis and constant currency basis over 2009 consolidated net sales. Net sales on a constant currency basis is a non GAAP measure and should not be viewed as a replacement of GAAP results. See Managements Use of Non GAAP Measures below. Price changes had the effect of decreasing consolidated net sales by approximately 70 basis points and 30 basis points for 2011 and 2010, respectively, compared to the prior years. The primary exchange rate movement that impacts net sales is the movement of the Euro compared to the U.S. dollar. The impact of exchange rate movements on net sales is not indicative of the impact on net earnings due to the offsetting impact of exchange rate movements on operating costs and expenses, costs incurred in other currencies and the companys hedging activities. Bards 2011 United States net sales of $1,956.0 million increased 4% compared to $1,889.0 million in 2010. Bards 2011 international net sales of $940.4 million increased 13% on a reported basis (9% on a constant currency basis) compared to $831.2 million in 2010. Bards 2010 United States net sales increased 7% compared to $1,759.2 million in 2009. Bards 2010 international net sales increased 7% on a reported basis (6% on a constant currency basis) compared to $775.7 million in 2009. Presented below is a summary of consolidated net sales by disease state. Product Group Summary of Net Sales For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Change ConstantCurrency 2009 Change ConstantCurrency (dollars in millions) Vascular $ 842.4 $ 755.9 11% 10% $ 681.5 11% 11% Urology 734.8 718.1 2% 1% 700.3 3% 2% Oncology 779.5 724.8 8% 6% 678.7 7% 6% Surgical Specialties 450.0 434.6 4% 3% 387.8 12% 12% Other 89.7 86.8 3% 3% 86.6 Total net sales $ 2,896.4 $ 2,720.2 6% 5% $ 2,534.9 7% 7% II 4 Table of Contents Vascular Products Bard markets a wide range of products for the peripheral vascular market, including endovascular products, electrophysiology products and vascular graft products. United States net sales of vascular products in 2011 increased 9% compared to the prior year. International net sales of vascular products in 2011 increased 15% on a reported basis (10% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. The increase in consolidated net sales of vascular products in both 2011 and 2010 was due primarily to growth in endovascular products. United States net sales of vascular products in 2010 increased 14% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2010 increased 7% on a reported basis (8% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of endovascular products in 2011 increased 16% on a reported basis (14% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year (including 6 percentage points of growth on both a reported and constant currency basis from the SenoRx&reg; biopsy products acquired in July 2010). Consolidated net sales of endovascular products in 2010 increased 16% on both a reported basis and constant currency basis compared to the prior year (including 5 percentage points of growth on both a reported basis and constant currency basis from the SenoRx biopsy products). Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty balloon catheters, stents and biopsy products were the primary contributors to the growth in this category in both 2011 and 2010. Consolidated net sales of electrophysiology products in 2011 increased 2% on a reported basis (decreased 1% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of electrophysiology products in 2010 increased 2% on both a reported basis and constant currency basis compared to the prior year. The net sales increase for both 2011 and 2010 was driven primarily by sales of electrophysiology laboratory systems and steerable diagnostic catheters. Consolidated net sales of vascular graft products in 2011 decreased 2% on a reported basis (4% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of vascular graft products in 2010 decreased 4% on a reported basis (3% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Declining sales in peripheral vascular grafts were the primary drivers of the decrease in both 2011 and 2010. Urology Products Bard markets a wide range of products for the urology market, including basic drainage products, continence products and urological specialty products. Bard also markets StatLock&reg; catheter stabilization products, which are used to secure many types of catheters sold by Bard and other companies. The majority of basic drainage products, StatLock&reg; catheter stabilization devices and certain urological specialty products are sold through distributors. Bard also markets Targeted Temperature Management products, acquired in November 2011, for therapeutic hypothermia. The increase in consolidated net sales of urology products in 2011 compared to the prior year was led by growth in sales of basic drainage products, StatLock&reg; products and the addition of Targeted Temperature Management products partially offset by a decrease in sales of continence products. United States net sales in 2011 decreased 1% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2011 increased 12% on a reported basis (8% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. The increase in consolidated net sales of urology products in 2010 compared to the prior year was led by growth in sales of StatLock&reg; products and basic drainage products. Net sales growth in urology products in 2010 was favorably impacted by inventory reductions made by U.S. distributors during 2009. United States net sales in 2010 increased 2% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2010 increased 4% on a reported basis (2% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of basic drainage products in 2011 increased 3% on both a reported basis and constant currency basis compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of basic drainage products in 2010 increased 2% on both a reported basis and constant currency basis compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of infection control Foley catheter products in 2011 remained flat on both a reported basis and constant currency basis compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of infection control Foley catheter products declined 1% in 2010 on both a reported basis and constant currency basis compared to the prior year. II 5 Table of Contents Consolidated net sales of urological specialty products in 2011 increased 2% on a reported basis (1% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of urological specialty products in 2010 decreased 3% on a reported basis (4% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. The growth in 2011 was primarily driven by an increase in brachytherapy sales internationally. The decrease in 2010 was primarily driven by a decline in brachytherapy sales in the United States. Despite growth in the current year, the brachytherapy market has been losing procedural share to alternative therapies in the United States, a trend that may continue. Consolidated net sales of continence products in 2011 decreased 14% on a reported basis (15% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Net sales in 2011 were impacted by the discontinuation of sales of a bulking continence product and by a decline in sales of surgical continence products, a trend that may continue. Consolidated net sales of continence products in 2010 decreased 5% on both a reported basis and constant currency basis compared to the prior year. Net sales in 2010 were impacted by a decline in sales of surgical continence products, partially offset by sales growth in fecal management products. Consolidated net sales of the StatLock&reg; catheter stabilization product line in 2011 increased 6% on a reported basis (5% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of the StatLock&reg; catheter stabilization product line in 2010 increased 19% on a reported basis (18% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Net sales growth of the StatLock&reg; product line in 2010 was favorably impacted by inventory reductions made by U.S. distributors during 2009. Oncology Products Bards oncology business includes specialty vascular access products and enteral feeding devices. Specialty vascular access products include peripherally inserted central catheters (PICCs) used for intermediate to long term central venous access, specialty access ports and accessories (Ports) used most commonly for chemotherapy, dialysis access catheters and vascular access ultrasound devices which help facilitate the placement of PICCs. The increase in consolidated net sales of oncology products in 2011 compared to the prior year was due primarily to growth in net sales of PICCs and Ports. United States net sales of oncology products in 2011 increased 5% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2011 increased 15% on a reported basis (9% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. The increase in consolidated net sales of oncology products in 2010 compared to the prior year was due primarily to growth in net sales of PICCs and Ports. Dialysis access catheters and vascular access ultrasound devices also contributed to growth in 2010 net sales. United States net sales of oncology products in 2010 increased 5% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2010 increased 11% on a reported basis (8% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of PICCs in 2011 increased 9% on a reported basis (8% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of Ports in 2011 increased 6% on a reported basis (5% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of PICCs in 2010 increased 8% on both a reported basis and constant currency basis compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of Ports in 2010 increased 6% on both a reported basis and constant currency basis compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of dialysis access catheters in 2011 increased 10% on a reported basis (8% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of vascular access ultrasound devices in 2011 increased 10% on a reported basis (9% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of dialysis access catheters in 2010 increased 10% on a reported basis (9% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Consolidated net sales of vascular access ultrasound devices in 2010 increased 15% on a reported basis (14% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Surgical Specialty Products Surgical specialty products include soft tissue repair, performance irrigation and hemostasis product lines. United States net sales in 2011 increased 2% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2011 increased 10% on a reported basis (6% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. United States net sales in 2010 increased 14% compared to the prior year. International net sales in 2010 increased 6% on a reported basis (5% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. The increase in consolidated net sales of surgical specialty products in both 2011 and 2010 compared to the prior year was due to growth in soft tissue repair products. II 6 Table of Contents The soft tissue repair product line includes synthetic and natural tissue hernia repair implants, natural tissue breast reconstruction implants, and hernia fixation products. Consolidated net sales of soft tissue repair products in 2011 increased 6% on a reported basis (5% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Net sales in this category in 2011 were favorably impacted by growth in sales of synthetic and natural tissue hernia repair implants and natural tissue breast reconstruction implants, partially offset by declines in hernia fixation products, a trend that may continue. Consolidated net sales of soft tissue repair products in 2010 increased 17% on a reported basis (16% on a constant currency basis) compared to the prior year. Natural tissue products for hernia repair implants and breast reconstruction implants, and hernia fixation products were the drivers of growth in this category in 2010. Other Products The other product group includes irrigation, wound drainage and certain original equipment manufacturers products. Costs and Expenses The following is a summary of costs and expenses as a percentage of net sales for the following years ended December 31: 2011 2010 2009 Cost of goods sold 37.9 % 37.5 % 37.8 % Marketing, selling and administrative expense 27.4 % 27.9 % 26.9 % Research and development expense 6.4 % 6.8 % 7.1 % Interest expense 1.3 % 0.5 % 0.5 % Other (income) expense, net 9.4 % 0.9 % 1.2 % Total costs and expenses 82.4 % 73.6 % 73.5 % Cost of goods sold Cost of goods sold consists principally of the manufacturing and distribution costs of the companys products. The category also includes royalties, amortization of intangible assets and the impact of certain hedging activities. Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net sales for 2011 increased 40 basis points compared to the prior year. Incremental amortization of intangible assets acquired in 2010 and 2011 increased cost of goods sold as a percentage of net sales by approximately 40 basis points over the prior year. Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net sales for 2010 decreased 30 basis points from the prior year. This reduction was attributed primarily to cost improvements partially offset by the impact of approximately 50 basis points of incremental amortization of intangible assets acquired in 2009 and 2010. Marketing, selling and administrative expense Marketing, selling and administrative expense consists principally of the costs associated with the companys sales and administrative organizations. These costs as a percentage of net sales for 2011 decreased 50 basis points from the prior year due primarily to company wide spending controls, including the impact of the recent restructuring activities, partially offset by investments in emerging markets. These costs as a percentage of net sales for 2010 increased 100 basis points from the prior year primarily due to higher related costs from the acquired operations of SenoRx and FlowCardia. Research and development expense Research and development expense consists principally of the costs related to internal research and development activities, milestone payments for third party research and development activities, and IPR&D arising from business development activities. IPR&D payments may impact the comparability of the companys results of operations between periods. The following table presents a summary of research and development expense for the following years ended December 31: 2011 2010 2009 (dollars in millions) Research and development $ 181.9 $ 182.8 $ 163.5 In process research and development 3.5 2.6 16.1 Total research and development expense $ 185.4 $ 185.4 $ 179.6 II 7 Table of Contents Research and development expense in 2011 remained flat compared to the prior year. Research and development expense in 2010 increased approximately 3% compared to the prior year. Included in research and development expense for 2009 was IPR&D of $16.1 million primarily associated with the acquisition of technology for laparoscopic hernia repair. The entire purchase price related to this asset acquisition was allocated to IPR&D in 2009. Interest expense Interest expense in 2011 was $36.4 million as compared with 2010 interest expense of $12.7 million and 2009 interest expense of $11.8 million. The increase in interest expense in 2011 was due to the issuance of $750 million of senior unsecured notes in December 2010. Other (income) expense, net Other (income) expense, net, was $271.9 million, $24.6 million and $30.5 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Other (income) expense, net, in 2011 included charges related to legal settlements and commitments of $246.5 million, charges for the impairment of Greek bonds of $11.5 million and net restructuring costs of $7.8 million. Other (income) expense, net, in 2010 included restructuring costs of $16.7 million and acquisition related integration costs of $9.3 million. See Note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. Income Tax Provision The companys effective tax rate for 2011 was approximately 36% compared to approximately 29% in 2010. The effective tax rate for 2011 reflected the tax effect of a charge for legal settlements related to the Hernia Product Claims, which were incurred in a low tax jurisdiction, and a charge related to the Brachytherapy Matter, part of which is not expected to be tax deductible. The tax rate in 2011 also reflected a tax benefit of $17.6 million for certain tax positions being settled as a result of the completion of U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examinations for the tax years from 2005 through 2007 and certain examinations in other jurisdictions. The companys effective tax rate for 2010 was approximately 29%, compared to approximately 31% in 2009. The effective tax rate for 2010 reflected the tax effect of a $10.4 million benefit associated with certain tax positions being remeasured as a result of new information related to the completion of IRS examinations of the tax years 2003 and 2004, reductions of tax positions related to the completion of certain foreign tax examinations, and the expiration of statutes of limitation in certain foreign jurisdictions. The $10.4 million benefit was partially offset by a charge of $5.6 million associated with a cash repatriation of approximately $62 million of earnings from operations in certain foreign jurisdictions as a result of tax legislation enacted in the third quarter. The tax rate in 2010 also reflected the tax effect of acquisition related items (primarily transaction and integration costs and IPR&D). As a result of the retroactive application of the research tax credit under the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010, the income tax provision for the year was reduced by $3.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders and Earnings per Share Available to Common Shareholders The company reported 2011 net income attributable to common shareholders of $328.0 million, a decrease of 36% from 2010 net income attributable to common shareholders of $509.2 million. The company reported 2011 diluted earnings per share available to common shareholders of $3.69, a decrease of 31% from 2010 diluted earnings per share available to common shareholders of $5.32. Net income attributable to common shareholders in 2011 reflects charges for legal settlements and commitments of $230.3 million, or $2.59 per diluted share, acquisition related items (primarily transaction and integration costs and IPR&D) of $11.7 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, and charges for the impairment of Greek bonds of $11.5 million, or $0.13 per diluted share. Net income for 2011 also reflects restructuring costs of $5.0 million, or $0.06 per diluted share and a decrease to the tax provision of $17.6 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, as a result of the reduction of certain tax positions as discussed above. The company reported 2010 net income attributable to common shareholders of $509.2 million, an increase of 11% from 2009 net income attributable to common shareholders of $460.1 million. The company reported II 8 Table of Contents 2010 diluted earnings per share available to common shareholders of $5.32, an increase of 16% from 2009 diluted earnings per share available to common shareholders of $4.60. Net income attributable to common shareholders in 2010 reflects restructuring costs of $11.4 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, and acquisition related items (primarily integration and transaction costs and IPR&D) of $16.1 million, or $0.17 per diluted share. Net income for 2010 also reflects bad debt expense of $3.8 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, related to the write down of accounts receivable in Greece and a net decrease to the income tax provision of $4.8 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, as a result of the reductions of certain tax positions and the cash repatriation as discussed above. Liquidity and Capital Resources The company assesses its liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities. Significant factors affecting the management of liquidity are cash flows generated from operating activities, capital expenditures, acquisitions of businesses and technologies, cash dividends and common stock repurchases. Cash provided from operations continues to be the companys primary source of funds. The company believes it could borrow adequate funds at competitive terms should it be necessary. The company also believes that its overall financial strength gives it sufficient financial flexibility. The table below summarizes liquidity measures for Bard for the following years ended December 31: 2011 2010 2009 (dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 596.4 $ 641.4 $ 674.4 Working capital 781.8 1,131.6 1,210.1 Current ratio 1.86/1 3.85/1 5.30/1 Cash and cash equivalents held by the companys foreign subsidiaries were $586.9 million and $641.4 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. It is the companys intention to permanently reinvest the majority of these funds outside the United States to finance foreign operations, and the companys plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate these funds. If these funds are needed for U.S. operations or can no longer be permanently reinvested outside the United States, the company would be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. In the United States, ongoing operating cash flows and available borrowings under the companys committed syndicated bank credit facility provide it with sufficient liquidity. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, net cash provided by operating activities was $721.5 million, $637.8 million and $619.3 million respectively. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities in 2011 reflects higher net income, excluding non cash items and the timing of tax payments. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities in 2010 reflects higher net income, excluding non cash items, partially offset by higher levels of inventory and the timing of tax payments. During 2011, the company used $772.3 million in cash for investing activities, $417.2 million more than in 2010. During 2010, the company used $355.1 million in cash for investing activities, $165.9 million more than in 2009. Capital expenditures amounted to $71.4 million, $51.2 million and $48.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The current year reflects an increase of $147.1 million in restricted cash related to payments to QSFs pursuant to the proposed settlement of certain Hernia Product Claims. The company spent $557.2 million in 2011, $303.9 million in 2010 and $141.1 million in 2009 for the acquisition of businesses, products and technologies to augment existing product lines. During 2011, cash provided by financing activities was $3.9 million, $314.5 million more than in 2010. During 2010, the company used $310.6 million in cash for financing activities, $67.8 million less than in 2009. Total debt was $1.2 billion and $977.4 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. Total debt to total capitalization was 40.5%, 37.5% and 6.4% at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The company spent approximately $221.8 million to repurchase 2,519,410 shares of common stock in 2011 compared to approximately $1.1 billion to repurchase 12,025,000 shares of common stock in 2010 and $342.2 million to repurchase 4,535,047 shares in 2009. In addition, a payment of $58.9 million in cash remitted to the bank II 9 Table of Contents counterparty upon final settlement under the accelerated share repurchase (ASR) agreement is included in purchases of common stock in 2011. The repurchases of common stock in 2010 included $750.0 million to repurchase 8,100,000 shares upon initial settlement under the ASR agreement with the bank counterparty. The company paid cash dividends of $64.6 million, $66.9 million and $65.4 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2010, the company purchased the noncontrolling interest in its Malaysian operation for $25.9 million. In October 2011, the company entered into a new $600 million five year committed syndicated bank credit facility that expires in October 2016. The new credit facility replaced the companys previous $400 million five year credit facility that was scheduled to mature in June 2012. The new credit facility supports the companys commercial paper program and can be used for general corporate purposes. The new facility includes pricing based on the companys long term credit rating and includes a financial covenant that limits the amount of total debt to total capitalization. The company had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $304.5 million and $80.5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Contractual Obligations Payments due under contractual obligations at December 31, 2011, are as follows: (dollars in millions) Total 1Year 2 3Years 4 5Years 5+Years Forward contracts $ 149.8 $ 149.8 $ $ $ Short term borrowings 304.5 304.5 Long term debt 1,277.1 35.1 71.0 321.8 849.2 Operating lease obligations 130.4 22.7 38.2 26.5 43.0 Acquisition and related milestones 121.1 16.0 5.1 100.0 Purchase obligations 185.6 160.4 22.9 0.6 1.7 Legal settlements 147.1 147.1 Other long term liabilities 86.3 9.3 12.2 13.0 51.8 $ 2,401.9 $ 844.9 $ 149.4 $ 461.9 $ 945.7 The table above does not include $45.0 million of the total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions and $5.0 million of associated accrued interest. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of potential future cash flows, the company is unable to make a reasonable estimate of the amount and period in which these liabilities might be paid. Forward contracts Forward contracts obligate the company for the forward purchase of currencies in which the company has known or anticipated sales or payments. Short term borrowings Short term borrowings consist of commercial paper. Long term debt Long term debt includes expected principal and interest payments, including the effect of an interest rate swap contract. Operating lease obligations The company is committed under noncancelable operating leases involving certain facilities and equipment. Acquisition and related milestones The company may make payments to third parties when milestones are achieved, such as the achievement of research and development targets, receipt of regulatory approvals or achievement of performance or operational targets under various acquisition and related arrangements. The table above excludes amounts for these milestone payments unless the payments are deemed reasonably likely to occur. Purchase obligations The companys business creates a need to enter into commitments with suppliers. These inventory purchase commitments do not exceed the companys projected requirements over the related terms and are entered into in the normal course of business. Legal settlements Payments to claimants for Hernia Product Claims, subject to certain settlement conditions, may be made from QSFs. II 10 Table of Contents Other long term liabilities The company estimates required funding obligations related to its pension and postretirement benefit plans and deferred compensation. Managements Use of Non GAAP Measures Net sales on a constant currency basis is a non GAAP measure. The company analyzes net sales on a constant currency basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods. Because changes in foreign currency exchange rates have a non operating impact on net sales, the company believes that evaluating growth in net sales on a constant currency basis provides an additional and meaningful assessment of net sales to both management and the companys investors. Constant currency growth rates are calculated by translating the prior years local currency sales by the current periods exchange rate. Constant currency growth rates are not indicative of changes in corresponding cash flows. The limitation of these non GAAP measures is that they do not reflect results on a standardized reporting basis. Non GAAP measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP disclosures and should not be viewed as replacements of GAAP results. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements requires the companys management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Critical accounting policies are those that require application of managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. The following is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of the companys accounting policies. The companys significant accounting policies are more fully described in the companys notes to consolidated financial statements. See Note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. The critical accounting policies described below are areas in which managements judgment in determining estimates and assumptions might produce a materially different result. Revenue Recognition Generally, sales to end user customers and European distributors are recognized at the point of delivery, and sales to domestic distributors are recognized at the time of shipment. In certain circumstances, end user customers may require the company to maintain consignment inventory at the customers location. In the case of consignment inventories, revenues and associated costs are recognized upon the notification of usage by the customer. Share Based Compensation Share based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award. Generally, compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period. In order to determine the fair value of stock options on the grant date, the company utilizes a binomial model. Inherent in the binomial model are assumptions related to expected stock price volatility, option life, risk free interest rate and dividend yield. The expected stock price volatility is based upon weightings of the historical volatility of the companys stock and the implied volatility from publicly traded options. The company reviews the trading volumes and option life of its publicly traded options in order to determine the appropriate weighting of implied volatility. This approach is used as a predictor of future realized and implied volatilities and is directly related to stock option valuations. With respect to expected future exercise behavior, the company considers the exercise behavior of past grants and models the pattern of aggregate exercises. The risk free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the grant date with a term equal to the contractual term of the stock option. As share based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, the amount of expense has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. The company estimates forfeitures at the time of grant based on historical experience and revises estimates, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Contingencies The company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including, for example, product liability matters, environmental matters, employment disputes, disputes on agreements and other II 11 Table of Contents commercial disputes, the outcomes of which are not within the companys complete control and may not be known for extended periods of time. In some cases, the claimants seek damages, as well as other relief, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures. The company records a liability in its consolidated financial statements for damages and or costs related to claims, settlements and judgments where the company has assessed that the loss is probable and an amount can be reasonably estimated. If the estimate of a probable loss is a range and no amount within the range is more likely, the company accrues the minimum amount of the range. The company records a receivable from its product liability insurance carriers when those recoveries are probable and collectible. Amounts recovered under these policies may be less than the stated coverage limits and may not be adequate to cover damages and or costs. In addition, there is no guarantee that insurers will pay claims or that coverage will be otherwise available. Legal costs associated with these matters are expensed as incurred. See Note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes The company operates in multiple taxing jurisdictions, both within the United States and internationally. The company regularly assesses its tax positions and includes reserves for uncertain tax positions. These positions relate to transfer pricing, the deductibility of certain expenses, intercompany transactions and other matters. Although the outcome of tax audits is uncertain, in managements opinion, adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for potential liabilities resulting from such matters. The recognition and measurement of a tax position is based on the companys best judgment given the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. The reserves are used or reversed once the statutes of limitation have expired or the position is effectively settled. The company believes that the ultimate outcome of these matters will not have a material impact on its financial condition and or liquidity but may be material to its income tax provision and results of operations. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts, Customer Rebates and Inventory Writedowns The company makes estimates of the uncollectibility of the companys accounts receivable, amounts that are rebated to specific customers in accordance with contractual requirements and inventory adjustments to reflect inventory valuation at the lower of cost or market. In estimating the reserves necessary for the allowance for doubtful accounts, management considers historical bad debt trends, customer concentrations, the average length of time to collect receivables, customer creditworthiness and current economic trends. The company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated amounts that are uncollectible from customers. In estimating the allowance for customer rebates, management considers the lag time between the point of sale and the payment of the customers rebate claim, customer specific trend analysis and contractual commitments including the stated rebate rate. The company establishes an allowance for customer rebates and reduces sales for such rebate amounts. In estimating the adjustment for inventory writedowns, management considers product obsolescence, quantity on hand, future demand for the product and other market related conditions. The company records an adjustment for inventory writedowns when such conditions cause the inventory market value to be below carrying value. The company records such adjustments to cost of sales in the period in which the condition exists. It is possible that the underlying factors discussed above for the allowance for doubtful accounts, customer rebates and inventory writedowns could change. Depending on the extent and nature of the change to the underlying factors, the impact to the companys results of operations and financial condition could be material in the period of change. Acquisitions In a business combination, the acquisition method of accounting requires that the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed be measured at their fair value, with goodwill being the excess value of consideration paid over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired. IPR&D is capitalized and recorded as an indefinite lived intangible asset at the acquisition date, contingent consideration is recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, and transaction costs are expensed as incurred. The amount of the purchase price allocated to IPR&D and other intangible assets is determined by estimating the future cash flows of each project or technology and discounting the net cash flows back to their present values. The discount rate used is determined at the time of the acquisition in accordance with accepted valuation methods. For IPR&D, these methodologies include consideration of the risk of a project not achieving commercial feasibility. Amounts allocated to IPR&D are subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of a project. Upon successful completion, a II 12 Table of Contents separate determination will be made as to the useful life of the asset and amortization will begin. When the company acquires net assets that are not accounted for as a business combination, no goodwill is recognized. The judgments made in determining fair value assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact results of operations. Goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment annually at December 31 or more frequently if impairment indicators arise using a fair value based test. The company assigns goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions to its four reporting units, each of which is one level below the companys single reporting segment. The fair value of each reporting unit is calculated and compared to its carrying value. In determining the fair value of each reporting unit, the company uses a weighted average combination of both market and income approaches. The market approach to estimating fair value is based primarily on applying external market information to a historical earnings measure. The income approach to estimating fair value is based on a discounted value of estimated future cash flows of the reporting unit. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, then the company will record an impairment loss for the excess of the carrying value of goodwill over its implied fair value. Impairment of Long Lived Assets Intangible assets with finite lives and other long lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The company evaluates the recoverability of assets to be held and used by comparing the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized in the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. Pension Plans The company sponsors pension plans covering substantially all domestic employees and certain foreign employees who meet eligibility requirements. Several statistical and other factors that attempt to anticipate future events are used in calculating the expense and liability related to the plans. These factors include assumptions about the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of future compensation increases as determined by the company. In addition, the companys actuarial consultants also use subjective factors, such as withdrawal and mortality rates, to estimate these factors. The actuarial assumptions used by the company may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of the participants. A change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $0.9 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on the companys net pension cost. A change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the expected rate of return on plan assets assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $0.8 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on the companys net pension cost. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new statement that eliminates the current option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the consolidated statements of shareholders investment. Under this statement, the company can elect to present items of net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement or in two separate, but consecutive statements. This FASB statement will be effective as of the beginning of the companys 2012 fiscal year, with the exception of the deferral of a certain provision, and will be retrospectively applied to all prior periods presented. Risks and Uncertainties; Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Information Certain statements contained herein or in other company documents and certain statements that may be made by management of the company orally may contain forward looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate II 13 Table of Contents strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, forecast, plan, believe and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to product approvals, future performance of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. The companys forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update its forward looking statements. In addition, there are substantial risks inherent in the medical device business. The companys business involves the design, development, manufacture, packaging, distribution and sale of life sustaining medical devices. These devices are often used on, or permanently or temporarily implanted in, patients in clinically demanding circumstances, such as operating rooms, emergency units, intensive care and critical care settings, among others. These circumstances, among other factors, can cause the products to become associated with adverse clinical events, including patient mortality and injury, and could lead to product liability claims (including lawsuits seeking class action status or seeking to establish multi district litigation proceedings) and other litigation, product withdrawals, warning letters, recalls, field corrections or regulatory enforcement actions relating to one or more of the companys products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and or liquidity. Because actual results are affected by these and other risks and uncertainties, the company cautions investors that actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. It is not possible to predict or identify all risks and uncertainties, but the most significant factors, in addition to those addressed above and those under Item 1A. Risk Factors, that could adversely affect our business or cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include, but are not limited to: Effective management of and reaction to risks involved in our business, including: the ability to achieve manufacturing or administrative efficiencies, including gross margin benefits from our manufacturing processes and supply chain programs or in connection with the integration of acquired businesses; the effects of negative publicity concerning our products, which could result in product withdrawals or decreased product demand and which could reduce market or governmental acceptance of our products; the ability to identify appropriate companies, businesses and technologies as potential acquisition candidates, to consummate and successfully integrate such transactions or to obtain agreements for such transactions on favorable terms; the reduction in the number of procedures using our devices caused by customers cost containment pressures or preferences for alternate therapies; the ability to maintain or increase research and development expenditures; the uncertainty of whether increased research and development expenditures and sales force expansion will result in increased sales; the ability to reduce exposure and uncertainty related to tax audits, appeals and litigation; internal factors, such as retention of key employees, including sales force employees; the ability to achieve earnings forecasts, which are generated based, among other things, on projected volumes and sales of many product types, some of which are more profitable than others; changes in factors and assumptions or actual results that differ from our assumptions on stock valuation and employee stock option exercise patterns, which could cause compensation expense recorded in future periods to differ significantly from the compensation expense recorded in the current period; changes in factors and assumptions could cause pension cost recorded in future periods to differ from the pension cost recorded in the current period; II 14 Table of Contents the effect of market fluctuations on the value of assets in the companys pension plans and the possibility that the company may need to make additional contributions to the plans as a result of any decline in the fair value of such assets; damage to a facility where our products are manufactured or from which they are distributed, which could render the company unable to manufacture or distribute one or more products and may require the company to reduce the output of products at the damaged facility thereby making it difficult to meet product shipping targets; the potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets of the company resulting from insufficient cash flow generated from such assets specifically, or our business more broadly, so as to not allow the company to justify the carrying value of the assets; the ability to obtain appropriate levels of product liability insurance on reasonable terms; the ability to recover for claims made to our insurance companies; and the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the 2011 restructuring activities to improve its overall cost structure and improve efficiency. Competitive factors, including: the trend of consolidation in the medical device industry as well as among our customers, resulting in potentially greater pricing pressures and more significant and complex contracts than in the past, both in the United States and abroad; development of new products or technologies by competitors having superior performance compared to our current products or products under development which could negatively impact sales of our products or render one or more of our products obsolete; technological advances, patents and registrations obtained by competitors that would have the effect of excluding the company from new market segments or preventing the company from selling a product or including key features in the companys products; attempts by competitors to gain market share through aggressive marketing programs; and reprocessing by third party reprocessors of our products designed and labeled for single use. Difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, including: the ability to complete planned and or ongoing clinical trials successfully, to develop and obtain regulatory approval for products on a timely basis and to launch products on a timely basis within cost estimates; lengthy and costly regulatory approval processes, which may result in lost market opportunities and or delayed product launches; delays or denials of, or grants of low or reduced levels of reimbursement for, procedures using newly developed products; the suspension or revocation of authority to manufacture, market or distribute existing products; the imposition of additional or different regulatory requirements, such as those affecting manufacturing and labeling; performance, efficacy or safety concerns for existing products, whether scientifically justified or not, that may lead to product discontinuations, product withdrawals, recalls, field corrections, regulatory enforcement actions, litigation or declining sales, including adverse events and or concerns relating to the companys vena cava filters, pelvic floor repair products and hernia repair products; II 15 Table of Contents FDA inspections resulting in Form 483 notices and or warning letters identifying deficiencies in the companys manufacturing practices and or quality systems; warning letters identifying violations of FDA regulations that could result in product holds, recalls, restrictions on future clearances by the FDA and or civil penalties; the failure to obtain, limitations on the use of, or the loss of, patent and other intellectual property rights, and the failure of efforts to protect our intellectual property rights against infringement and legal challenges that can increase our costs; difficulties obtaining necessary components or raw materials used in the companys products and or price increases from the companys suppliers of critical components or raw materials, including oil based resins, or other interruptions of the supply chain; and customers that may limit the number of manufacturers or vendors from which they will purchase products, which can result in the companys inability to sell products to or contract with large hospital systems, integrated delivery networks or group purchasing organizations. Governmental action, including: the impact of continued healthcare cost containment; new laws and judicial decisions related to healthcare availability, healthcare reform, payment for healthcare products and services or the marketing and distribution of products, including legislative or administrative reforms to the United States Medicare and Medicaid systems or other United States or international reimbursement systems in a manner that would significantly reduce or eliminate reimbursements for procedures that use the companys products; changes in the FDA and or foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; the impact of more vigorous compliance and enforcement activities affecting the healthcare industry in general or the company in particular; changes in the tax laws affecting our business, such as the excise tax in Puerto Rico; changes in the environmental laws or standards affecting our business; changes in laws that could require facility upgrades or process changes and could affect production rates and output; and compliance costs and potential penalties and remediation obligations in connection with environmental laws, including regulations regarding air emissions, waste water discharges and solid waste. Legal disputes, including: disputes over intellectual property rights; product liability claims, which may involve lawsuits seeking class action status or seeking to establish multi district litigation proceedings, including the Hernia Product Claims, the Womens Health Product Claims and the Filter Product Claims; claims asserting securities law violations; claims asserting, and or subpoenas seeking information regarding, violations of law in connection with federal and or state healthcare programs such as Medicare or Medicaid; derivative shareholder actions; claims and subpoenas asserting antitrust violations; II 16 Table of Contents environmental claims, including risks relating to accidental contamination or injury from the use of hazardous materials in the companys manufacturing, sterilization and research activities and the potential for the company to be held liable for any resulting damages; and commercial disputes, including disputes over distribution agreements, license agreements, manufacturing/supply agreements, development/research agreements, acquisition or sale agreements, and insurance policies. General economic conditions, including: international and domestic business conditions; political or economic instability in foreign countries; interest rates; foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the rate of inflation; and instability of global financial markets and economies including Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal and other countries in Europe. Other factors beyond our control, including catastrophes, both natural and man made, earthquakes, floods, fires, explosions, acts of terrorism or war. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Bard operates on a global basis and therefore is subject to the exposures that arise from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The company manages these exposures using operational and economic hedges as well as derivative financial instruments. The companys foreign currency exposures may change over time as changes occur in the companys international operations. The companys objective in managing its exposures to foreign currency fluctuations is to minimize earnings and cash flow volatility associated with assets, liabilities, net investments and probable commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In order to reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the company will from time to time enter into derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of its expected foreign currency denominated cash flow from operations. The instruments that the company uses for hedging are forward contracts and options with major financial institutions. The company expects that the changes in fair market value of such contracts will have a high correlation to the price changes in the related hedged cash flow. The principal currencies the company hedges are the Euro, the British Pound, the Mexican Peso, the Canadian Dollar, the Australian Dollar and the Japanese Yen. Any gains and losses on these hedge contracts are expected to offset changes in the value of the related exposure. Bards risk management guidelines prohibit entering into financial instruments for speculative purposes. The company enters into foreign currency transactions only to the extent that foreign currency exposure exists. A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all foreign exchange derivative contracts at December 31, 2011 indicates that if the U.S. dollar uniformly strengthened by 10% against all currencies, the fair value of these contracts would decrease by $1.9 million, and if the U.S. dollar uniformly weakened by 10% against all currencies, the fair value of these contracts would increase by $5.0 million. Any gains and losses on the fair value of derivative contracts would be largely offset by gains and losses on the underlying transactions. These offsetting gains and losses are not reflected in the above analysis. The companys investment portfolio primarily includes cash equivalents, for which the market values are not significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The market value of the companys fixed rate debt is affected by a change in the medium to long term U.S. interest rates because the borrowings generally have longer maturities. The market value of the companys fixed rate debt including the effect of the related interest rate swap contract effectively converting the 2.875% fixed rate notes to floating rate instruments approximated $1,038.7 million at December 31, 2011. A sensitivity analysis, assuming a 100 basis point increase or decrease in U.S. interest rates and assuming that the debt and related swap are held to maturity, indicates that the market value of the debt and related swap would have approximated $966.8 million or $1,113.1 million, respectively, on December 31, 2011. II 17 Table of Contents 
 
