FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20050823101426.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
                                   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
                                   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Hospira intends that these forward-looking statements be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements in the federal securities laws. In some cases, these statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "may," "will," "should," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "plan," "believe," "predict," "potential," "project," "intend," "could" or similar expressions. In particular, statements regarding Hospira's plans, strategies, prospects and expectations regarding its business are forward-looking statements. You should be aware that these statements and any other forward-looking statements in this document only reflect Hospira's expectations and are not guarantees of performance. These statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions are beyond Hospira's control, and may cause actual results and performance to differ materially from its expectations. Important factors that could cause Hospira's actual results to be materially different from its expectations include the risks and uncertainties set forth in Hospira's Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "BusinessRisk Factors." Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this report. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which the statements were made. Hospira undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
On August 23, 2005, Hospira approved a plan for the closure of its Donegal, Ireland medical device manufacturing plant as described in the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, which is incorporated into this Item 2.05 by reference.
 
Hospira estimates that the plan will result in pre-tax charges to its earnings in the range of approximately $30 million to $40 million, which are predominately expected to be recorded within the next 18 months. This range cannot be narrowed at this time as the ultimate amount of charges will depend upon additional analysis and negotiations that must be conducted in Ireland.
 
Estimates of the total costs Hospira expects to incur for each major type of costs associated with the plan are: (i) $18 million to $26 million for employee-related costs, including performance and retention payments, one-time employee termination benefits and other employee assistance costs; (ii) $6 million to $8 million for other cash costs associated with the plan; and (iii) $6 million to $7 million in net non-cash charges, including approximately $8 million for asset impairments, partially offset by a pension curtailment benefit.
 
Item 2.06  Material Impairments
 
The disclosure included under Item 2.05 of this Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.06.
 
Item 7.01 Other Regulation FD Disclosure
 
In news releases that it issues from time to time announcing its results of operations or projections, Hospira uses various non-GAAP financial measures.  For example, in its press release dated August 11, 2005 reporting its second quarter results of operations, Hospira reported net income and certain income statement items on an adjusted basis, excluding certain expenses and gains as described therein. In such news releases, Hospira provides a reconciliation of such non-GAAP financial measures to their closest GAAP measures. Hospira believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to both Hospira's management and investors in their analysis of Hospira's ongoing business and operating performance. Hospira's management also uses this information for operational planning and decision-making purposes. In future news releases announcing its results of operations or projections, in determining its net income and certain other income statement items on an adjusted basis, Hospira intends to exclude expenses associated with the plan described in Item 2.05 above.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for any GAAP measure. Additionally, non-GAAP financial measures as presented by Hospira may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)
                                 
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
HOSPIRA ANNOUNCES PLANS TO CLOSE PLANT IN DONEGAL, IRELAND
 
 Plan Part of Companywide Focus on Improving Manufacturing Efficiencies and Productivity 
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Aug. 23, 2005  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE:HSP), a leading global hospital products manufacturer, announced plans today to close its medical device manufacturing plant in Donegal, Ireland, within the next 18 months.
 
"To be successful over the long term, Hospira must continue to focus on improving profitability through cost savings and increased operational efficiency while also producing the highest quality products that meet our customers' needs," said James V. Mahoney, corporate vice president, Global Operations, Hospira. "Closing the Donegal facility will enable Hospira to better use its existing manufacturing capacity and improve productivity."
 
Hospira, Inc.
275 North Field Drive
Lake Forest, IL 60045
www.hospira.com
 
Products produced at the Donegal plant are expected to move to Hospira facilities in Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic, which have available manufacturing capacity to absorb the transfers. Approximately 550 Donegal employees are expected to be affected, and the company will provide them with retraining, career development and other assistance.
 
GAAP) earnings per share that were provided in the press release issued on Aug. 11, 2005.
(
In connection with the plant closure, Hospira estimates that it will incur total expenses in the range of $30 million to $40 million over the 2005 to 2007 time period for the impairment of assets, employee-related costs and other expenses. Approximately $6 million to $7 million of the charges are estimated to be non-cash. Hospira expects to eventually achieve annual cost savings from this action of approximately $15 million, beginning in 2008. Any related costs that are expected to be expensed in 2005 were not included in the company's projections for 2005 generally accepted accounting principles
 
Operations at the Hospira plant in Sligo, Ireland, will not be affected.
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness by developing, manufacturing and marketing products that help improve the productivity, safety and efficacy of patient care. With 70 years of service to the hospital industry, Hospira's portfolio includes one of the industry's broadest lines of generic acute-care injectables, which help address the high cost of proprietary pharmaceuticals in hospitals; integrated solutions for medication management and infusion therapy; and the leading U.S. injectable contract manufacturing business. Headquartered in Lake Forest, III., north of Chicago, Hospira has approximately 13,000 employees and 14 manufacturing facilities worldwide. Hospira's news releases and other information can be found at www.hospira.com.
 
Some statements in this news release may be forward-looking statements for purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks and uncertainties set forth under the heading "Item 1 Business  Risk Factors" in Hospira's Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2004, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
###


