FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20061108081034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
November 8, 2006
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported)
HOSPIRA, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
Delaware
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
 
275 N. Field Drive
Lake Forest, Illinois 60045
(Address Of Principal Executive Offices, including Zip Code)
Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code: 
(224) 212-2000
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, If Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
              
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
              
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 8, 2006, Hospira issued a press release announcing its 2006 third quarter results of operations.  Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.  In such press release, Hospira uses various non-GAAP financial measures.  Please refer to the section of the press release entitled "*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for further information regarding those non-GAAP financial measures.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
                                
Exhibits.
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2006 RESULTS
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Nov. 8, 2006  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE:HSP), a leading global hospital products company, today reported results for the third quarter ended Sept. 30, 2006.
Against an unusually strong third quarter in 2005, net sales decreased 1.5 percent to $646.6 million.
                 
Adjusted* third-quarter diluted earnings per share were $0.45 versus $0.48 last year. Third-quarter 2006 adjusted* diluted earnings per share include $0.04 of stock option expense.
                 
Third-quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.35 versus $0.37 for the same period in 2005.
                 
e remain on track to achieve our 2006 adjusted* earnings per share estimate. We continue to position Hospira for a strong future by investing for growth and working steadily to improve our operating margins and cash flow over the long term."
against an unusually strong third quarter in 2005, w
"The third quarter was one of continued progress for Hospira in executing on our long-term growth strategies, with notable advances such as the acquisition announcement of Mayne Pharma," said Christopher B. Begley, chief executive officer, Hospira. "And despite challenging comparisons
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2006 RESULTS PAGE
2
 
Third-quarter Financial Highlights
The following table highlights net sales, net income and diluted earnings per share results for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2006:
 
Affecting year-over-year comparisons was third-quarter 2005's particularly strong performance, which benefited from several factors, including the launch of the generic injectable drug ceftriaxone and a competitor's supply issues.
A schedule detailing sales by product line for the third quarter and first nine months of 2006 and 2005 is attached to this press release.
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2006 RESULTS PAGE
3
 
The primary components of the year-over-year change in net sales for the third quarter are as follows:
                 
Unfavorable volume and mix  (2.9) percentage points,
                 
Favorable pricing in the U.S.  0.7 percentage point, and
                 
Favorable foreign currency translation  0.6 percentage point.
Core net sales*, which exclude sales to Abbott and foreign exchange, declined 2.0 percent in the third quarter.
Significant Events in the Third Quarter
Announced an agreement to acquire Mayne Pharma, an Australia-based, publicly held specialty injectable pharmaceuticals company, for approximately US$2 billion in cash. The combination would result in the creation of a leading, global, generic injectable pharmaceuticals company, more than doubling Hospira's international presence and significantly accelerating the expansion of the company's generic injectable business. Assuming all necessary regulatory approvals are secured and customary closing conditions met, the transaction is expected to be completed around the end of the year.
                 
Launched the generic anti-infective drug ciprofloxacin in a flip-top vial format immediately following the patent expiration of the branded version.
                 
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2006 RESULTS PAGE
4
 
Announced separate agreements with group purchasing organizations (GPOs) Premier and HealthTrust Purchasing Group to provide their member organizations access to Hospira's line of industry-leading pain management pumps. Both agreements are new and national in scope.
                 
Announced the appointment of Thomas E. Werner to the position of senior vice president, Finance, and chief financial officer.
                 
Additional Third-quarter Information
In conjunction with the previous table, the following summarizes the financial results for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2006:
 
U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results include the effects of non-recurring transition expenses, manufacturing optimization
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2006 RESULTS PAGE
5
 
expenses, and other items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
The improvement in adjusted* gross margin was attributable primarily to lower manufacturing costs, improvement in manufacturing volumes and product mix, and favorable pricing in the U.S. These factors were partially offset by incremental freight and distribution infrastructure costs, primarily in the International segment.
The increase in adjusted* Research & Development (R&D) expense was primarily due to the inclusion of stock option expense in 2006.
The increase in adjusted* Selling, General and Administrative (S,G&A) expense was driven mainly by higher, ongoing, incremental costs associated with being a stand-alone public company, particularly related to operating the company's independent information technology (IT) system and its international business. The inclusion of stock option expense in 2006 results was also a factor.
The decrease in adjusted* operating margin was attributable to higher S,G&A and R&D expense, which more than offset the improvement to the adjusted* gross margin.
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2006 RESULTS PAGE
6
 
Cash Flow
Cash flow from operations for the first nine months of 2006 was $331.9 million, down from $471.3 million in the same period last year. The decrease in cash flow relates primarily to higher inventory levels.
Capital expenditures were $183.6 million for the first nine months of 2006, compared with $189.5 million for the same period in 2005. The decline in spending to build out the company's independent infrastructure more than offset the capital spending related to its manufacturing optimization initiatives.
2006 Projections
Due to delays in purchasing decisions by customers in Medication Management Systems as well as the expectation of lower-than-previously-projected sales growth in International, the company now projects that core net sales* will grow at a mid-single-digit rate. On a GAAP basis, net sales are expected to grow approximately 1 to 2 percent.
-MORE-
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2006 RESULTS PAGE
7
 
Hospira continues to project that the adjusted* earnings per share for full-year 2006 will be between $1.97 and $2.02, despite the lower growth rate in sales. These projections do not include any charges or other impacts resulting from the company's pending acquisition of Mayne Pharma or other pending transactions. The charges or other impacts could include purchase-accounting charges and integration expenses relating to the transactions, and could include approximately $21 million in additional pre-tax expenses relating to a potential biogenerics collaboration opportunity that could be closed during the fourth quarter.
The reconciliation between the projected adjusted* diluted earnings per share and GAAP-basis earnings per share is:
 
-MORE-
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2006 RESULTS PAGE
8
 
Cash flow from operations in 2006 is now projected to range between $400 million and $425 million, with capital expenditures estimated in the $220 million to $240 million range. The company expects depreciation and amortization to range between $150 million and $160 million.
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term "adjusted" refers to operating performance measures that exclude the non-recurring transition expenses in 2006 and 2005 related to becoming an independent, stand-alone company; charges related to the company's manufacturing optimization initiatives; and other items
as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measure are contained in the schedules attached to this press release.
-MORE-
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2006 RESULTS PAGE
9
 
Management believes that the items excluded in the adjusted, non-GAAP financial measures are not necessarily indicative of the company's base business results. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to both management and investors in their analysis of the company's ongoing business and operating performance. Management also believes that such presentation, when taken together with results presented on a GAAP basis, enables investors to have more complete information with which to assess the company's results of operations and prospects. The information also allows management and investors to better compare the company's performance on both year-over-year and competitive bases. In addition, management uses this information for operational planning and decision-making purposes, including establishing employee incentive targets.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for any GAAP measure. Additionally, non-GAAP financial measures as presented by Hospira may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
-MORE-
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2006 RESULTS PAGE
10
 
Webcast
A conference call for investors and media will be held at 8 a.m. Central Time on Wednesday, Nov. 8, 2006. A live webcast of the conference call will be available at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper computer setup for receiving the webcast. A replay will be available on the Hospira Web site for 30 days following the call.
About Hospira
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness by developing, manufacturing and marketing products that help improve the productivity, safety and efficacy of patient care. With 70 years of service to the hospital industry, Hospira's portfolio includes one of the industry's broadest lines of generic acute-care injectables, which help address the high cost of proprietary pharmaceuticals; integrated solutions for medication management and infusion therapy; and the leading U.S. injectable contract manufacturing business. Headquartered north of Chicago in Lake Forest, Ill., Hospira has approximately 13,000 employees and 14 manufacturing facilities worldwide. Hospira's news releases and other information can be found at www.hospira.com.
-MORE-
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2006 RESULTS PAGE
11
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2005, and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
Contacts:
 
 
Hospira, Inc. Reconciliation of Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited) (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
Statistics (as a % of Total Net Sales, except for income tax rate)
 
A  Includes costs of $18,291 related to the planned closure of the Donegal, Ireland; Ashland, OH; Montreal, Canada; and North Chicago, IL, facilities as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; and non-recurring transition costs of $275.
B  Non-recurring transition costs.
C  Includes non-recurring charges of $2,278 related to the closure of the Donegal, Ireland, facility as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; and non-recurring transition costs of $2,792.
D  Includes $9,500 one-time tax impact of earnings repatriation related to The American Jobs Creations Act, and the impact of increasing the overall effective tax rate from 24% to 25.5%.
 
Statistics (as a % of Total Net Sales, except for income tax rate)
A  Includes costs of $50,242 related to the planned closure of the Donegal, Ireland; Ashland, OH; Montreal, Canada; and North Chicago, IL, facilities as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; a reduction of the obligation associated with the sale of the Salt Lake City, UT, manufacturing plant to ICU Medical ($1,100); a gain on the sale of the Donegal, Ireland, facility ($7,851); and non-recurring transition costs of $4,406.
B  Non-recurring transition costs.
C  Includes an impairment charge of $2,429 and other charges of $13,404 related to the sale of the Salt Lake City, UT, manufacturing plant to ICU Medical; $2,278 related to the closure of the Donegal, Ireland, facility as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; and non-recurring transition costs of $5,330.
D  Includes $9,500 one-time tax impact of earnings repatriation related to The American Jobs Creations Act.
Hospira, Inc. Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share (Unaudited)
 
Adjustment figures may not add to subtotal amounts due to rounding.
Reconciliation of Stock Options Expense Impact on Diluted Adjusted Earnings Per Share (Unaudited)
Had the Company recorded stock option expense during 2005, adjusted diluted EPS would have remained steady for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, and decreased 0.7 percent for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. A reconciliation follows:
 
*
                   
Management believes that the presentation of 2005 results including pro-forma stock option expense assists period-to-period comparability.
Hospira, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) (dollars in thousands)
 
Hospira, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) (dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
*   Management believes that presentation of the change in core net sales, which excludes Sales to Abbott Laboratories, Berlex imaging agents, and the Impact of foreign currency, is useful to investors in that it provides an additional measure to assess the underlying sales trend of Hospira's ongoing business.
 
Hospira, Inc. Segment Information (Unaudited) (dollars in thousands)
 
 
 


