FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20060201094619.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
                                   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
                                   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including, without limitation, the planned time frames for the activities described in this report, the estimated total and cash charges relating to such activities, the timing and amount of the expected cost savings from such activities, the number of affected employees and other statements regarding Hospira's plans, objectives and strategies. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Factors, risks and uncertainties that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include Hospira's ability to effectively transition the manufacturing at the affected facilities to other manufacturing facilities and/or outsource such manufacturing to third party suppliers, the cost and availability of such manufacturing or outsourcing, uncertainties regarding the number of affected employees and employee-related and other costs and the risks and uncertainties set forth under the heading "Item 1 Business  Risk Factors" in Hospira's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2004 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and identified in Hospira's other SEC filings, including its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
On February 1, 2006, Hospira approved and announced a plan for: (i) the closure of its Ashland, Ohio plant expected over the next 18 months; (ii) the closure of its Montreal, Canada manufacturing plant expected over the next 28 months; and (iii) the production phase-out at the North Chicago, Illinois facility currently leased from Abbott Laboratories, the majority of which is expected over the next 48 months.  
The relatively higher costs of manufacturing in the impacted facilities, coupled with excess manufacturing capacity available for certain product lines within Hospira, prompted these actions.
 
Hospira estimates that these activities will result in total pre-tax charges to its earnings in the range of approximately $95 million to $110 million. This range includes a non-cash charge for the impairment of assets of approximately $13 million to be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005, based on Hospira's analysis of expected future production volumes at the plants.  The remaining charges are expected to be recorded through 2009 and are estimated to include: (i) $30 to $37 million for cash employee-related costs, including costs for severance, retention, and other assistance; (ii) $41 to $49 million in other cash costs, including product transfer and re-registration costs; and (iii) approximately $11 million in other non-cash costs, including accelerated depreciation of plant assets and post-retirement costs.  Such cash costs are expected to be offset by approximately $13 million in cash proceeds from the sale of assets.
 
Item 2.06  Material Impairments
 
The disclosure included under Item 2.05 of this Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.06.
 
Item 7.01 Other Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01, and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)
                                 
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
Company to close two plants; also provides timeline for production phase-out from leased facility
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Feb. 1, 2006  As part of a
companywide focus to continue to improve operational efficiencies in an increasingly competitive marketplace,
Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a leading global hospital products manufacturer, announced plans today to close plants in Ashland, Ohio, and Montreal, Canada, over the next 18 and 28 months, respectively.
The relatively higher costs of manufacturing in the impacted facilities, coupled with excess manufacturing capacity available for certain product lines within Hospira, prompted the action.
 
Hospira also provided its timeline for phasing out production at a facility in Abbott Laboratories' North Chicago, Ill., campus, where it has leased space from its former parent company since the spin-off in April 2004. Hospira intends to transition out of this facility in advance of the lease's expiration in 2014, with the majority of transfers occurring over the next four years.
 
"
To ensure long-term success, Hospira must take every step necessary to keep costs down while maintaining our high standards of quality and
 
Hospira, Inc.
275 North Field Drive
Lake Forest, IL 60045
www.hospira.com
 
" said Christopher B. Begley, chief executive officer, Hospira. "Since the spin, our manufacturing optimization efforts have included not only the consolidation of our operations infrastructure, where appropriate, but also key capital investments in several of our sites to support the company's strategies for growth."
performance,
 
The company will transfer manufacturing operations
at the impacted plants to other Hospira facilities based in the United States and will outsource certain product components to third-party suppliers. As the transfers are expected to create approximately 400 new full-time positions at other Hospira locations, the net position reduction is projected to be approximately 1,100 jobs.
The company will make available career counseling, job-search training and other assistance to help prepare employees for the transitions.
 
Begley noted,
"
Our employees at these facilities have made many valuable contributions to Hospira, our customers and the patients we collectively serve. We thank them for their service and the continued support they will provide throughout the transition.
"
 
In connection with the two plant closures and the transition out of North Chicago, Hospira estimates it will incur total pre-tax expenses in the range of $95 million to $110 million over the 2005 to 2009 time period for the impairment and accelerated depreciation of assets, employee-related costs and other expenses related to plant shutdowns and product transfers. The total net cash outflow is expected to be $58 million to $73 million. Hospira estimates that it will begin benefiting from these actions in 2008. Cost savings for that year are anticipated to be approximately $15 million and eventually reach annual cost savings of $30 million in 2010.
 
Based on an analysis of expected future production volumes at these facilities, the company determined that a pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $13 million should be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005. This charge is included in the total charges referenced above.
 
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness by developing, manufacturing and marketing products that help improve the productivity, safety and efficacy of patient care. With 70 years of service to the hospital industry, Hospira's portfolio includes one of the industry's broadest lines of generic acute-care injectables, which help address the high cost of proprietary pharmaceuticals; integrated solutions for medication management and infusion therapy; and the leading U.S. injectable contract manufacturing business.
Headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., north of Chicago, Hospira has approximately 13,000 employees and 14 manufacturing facilities worldwide. Hospira's news releases and other information can be found at www.hospira.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, without limitation, the planned time frames for the activities described in this press release, the estimated total and cash charges relating to such activities, the timing and amount of the expected cost savings from such activities, the number of affected employees and other statements regarding Hospira's plans, objectives and strategies. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Factors, risks and uncertainties that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include Hospira's ability to effectively transition the manufacturing at the affected facilities to other manufacturing facilities and/or outsource such manufacturing to third-party suppliers, the cost and availability of such manufacturing or outsourcing, uncertainties regarding the number of affected employees and employee-related and other costs, and the risks and uncertainties set forth under the heading "Item 1 Business  Risk Factors" in Hospira's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2004 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and identified in Hospira's other SEC filings, including its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
###
 
4


