FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20070509075840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
May 9, 2007
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported)
 
HOSPIRA, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
 
275 N. Field Drive
Lake Forest, Illinois 60045
(Address Of Principal Executive Offices, including Zip Code)
 
Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code: 
(224) 212-2000
 
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, If Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 9, 2007, we issued a press release announcing our 2007 first quarter results of operations.  Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Item 2.02, including the press release incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of our results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, statements regarding the financial impact of the acquisition of Mayne Pharma and other statements regarding our goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We present "non-GAAP financial measures" in the press release, including:
adjusted cost of goods sold;
                 
adjusted gross profit;
                 
adjusted research and development expense;
                 
adjusted selling, general and administrative expense;
                 
adjusted income from operations;
                 
adjusted interest expense;
                 
adjusted other income (net);
                 
adjusted income tax expense;
                 
adjusted net income;
                 
adjusted diluted earnings per share; and
                 
statistics using one or more of such adjusted measures.
                 
These non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items from the most comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles of the United States.  Each of these measures is presented together with the most comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP.  The excluded items are:
These charges  and expenses relate to the closure, or pending closures, of our Ashland, Ohio; Donegal, Ireland; and Montreal, Canada facilities and our departure from the North Chicago, Illinois manufacturing facility, which were announced in 2005 and 2006.   These charges and expenses include restructuring charges and expenses relating to the relocation of production from the affected facilities to other facilities.
Manufacturing Optimization. 
All of these facilities were transferred to us in connection with our 2004 spin-off from Abbott Laboratories, and our management determined that these facilities would not be used in our operations in future periods to reduce our future ongoing operating costs and improve the efficiency of our manufacturing operations. Accordingly, we do not believe that the charges and expenses relating to the closure or disposal of these facilities, and the transfer of production to other facilities, are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business performance and normal operations.  We expect to incur these expenses through 2010.  As the
2
product relocation expenses and certain restructuring charges are incurred in cash, excluding these items has the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures.
On a pre-tax basis, we incurred $10.8 million and $16.1 million of these charges and expenses in the first quarters of 2007 and 2006, which are recorded in cost of products sold.
 In the first quarter of 2007, we acquired Mayne Pharma Limited and incurred non-cash charges of $84.8 million of acquired in-process research and development.  We also recorded a $21.4 million non-cash inventory step-up charge in cost of products sold. As these types of charges are incurred in connection with, and in the period of, the completion of acquisitions, and the amount of these charges depends upon the allocation of the purchase price in accordance with applicable accounting rules, the timing and amount of these charges are unpredictable.  These charges have materially affected our reported financial results for the first quarter of 2007, but are not necessarily reflective of our ongoing business performance.  We expect to incur additional inventory step-up charges in the second quarter of 2007.  Exclusion of these charges from the adjusted financial measures results in economic costs to us not being reflected in our adjusted net income and earnings per share.
Purchase Accounting Charges. 
During the first quarter of 2007, we incurred $10.6 million of expenses relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma into our operations. These are recorded as selling, general and administrative expense, cost of products sold and research and development expense as detailed in the schedules to the press release.   We also incurred $7.9 million of other acquisition-related charges, including foreign exchange losses relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition (recorded in other income (net)) and fees incurred in connection with the bridge loan to finance the acquisition (recorded as interest expense).    During the two-year period after the closing of the acquisition, we estimate that we will incur approximately $60 million to $75 million of aggregate cash expenses related to the integration and other acquisition-related expenses.  We do not believe that these expenses are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business operations, as they were necessitated by a significant acquisition and will be incurred over a finite period.  Excluding these expenses will have the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures.
Acquisition and Integration-Related Expenses.  
Based on our preliminary purchase price allocation relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, we recorded approximately $518.4 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet, which will be amortized over their useful lives, resulting in significant non-cash expenses.  During the first quarter of 2007, we recorded $8.4 million of amortization expense resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition in cost of products sold.
Amortization of Mayne Pharma Intangible Assets. 
The amount of amortization expense can vary significantly among companies in our industry depending on the frequency, size and nature of acquisitions. While recording amortization is intended to represent the decrease in value of these intangible assets over time, the amount of recorded amortization may not necessarily represent our operating performance during the periods recorded because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating the fair value and useful lives of intangible assets at the time of the acquisition.  In order to assist comparability to our prior results and to the results of other companies in our industry with different acquisition histories, we have excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets in connection with the Mayne Pharma acquisition from our adjusted financial measures.  We have not previously excluded amortization expense in calculating our adjusted measures.  Amortization has not been material to prior periods.  Exclusion of amortization relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition effectively results in the recording of acquired intangible assets without recording any expense relating to the use of these assets in our business.
These expenses related to our transition to an independent public company as a result of our 2004 spin-off from Abbott.  We finished incurring these expenses in 2006.  These expenses primarily were for establishing new facilities, building out independent information systems, and product re-registration and re-labeling. We believe that these expenses were not necessarily indicative of our ongoing business performance as these expenses were necessitated by our spin-off. Excluding these expenses had the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures in periods through 2006.
Non-Recurring Transition Expenses. 
3
On a pre-tax basis, we incurred $15.3 million of these expenses in the first quarter of 2006 and none in 2007.  The schedules included in the press release that reconcile the adjusted financial measures to the financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP indicate the amount of such expenses excluded from cost of goods sold, gross profit, research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense to arrive at the corresponding adjusted financial measure.
Adjustments have been made to income tax expense in the appropriate period to take into account any tax effect of each excluded item.
All adjusted measures are reconciled to the most comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP in the press release.  We believe that presenting measures excluding the items described above, along with measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, provide investors with more information to assess our operating performance and prospects.  We also believe that excluding these items assists comparability with past performance.  Our management uses these adjusted measures as supplemental measures in assessing its own performancefor example, these measures are used in establishing our annual and long-term operating plans, presented to our board of directors in its review of our financial performance and considered in establishing targets under employee incentive plans. Since these measures allow investors to assess our performance on a similar basis as our management assesses our performance, we believe that investors have more information to assess the performance of management in executing its goals and strategies.
Non-GAAP financial measures are not presented in accordance with a body of comprehensive accounting principles and should not be considered a substitute for any GAAP measure.  The measures we use result largely from our management's determination as to whether the facts and circumstances surrounding certain transactions and events are indicative of the ordinary course of the ongoing operation of our business.  As a result, non-GAAP financial measures as presented by us may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
Our management uses non-GAAP financial measures as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Accordingly, these measures should be considered together with the corresponding financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.  In addition, our management reviews, and encourages investors to review, our balance sheet and statement of cash flows in order to make a complete evaluation and assessment of our financial performance.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Exhibits.
(d)
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
4
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
5

Exhibit 99.1
HOSPIRA REPORTS FIRST-QUARTER 2007 RESULTS
LAKE FOREST, Ill., May 9, 2007  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a leading global hospital products company, today reported results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2007.
Net sales increased 17.8 percent to $782.8 million in the first quarter. Excluding two months of sales contribution from the Mayne Pharma acquisition, net sales grew 0.8 percent.
                 
Adjusted* first-quarter diluted earnings per share were $0.59 versus $0.63 in the first quarter last year.
                 
The GAAP first-quarter 2007 loss per diluted share was $0.19 and includes $0.74 of expenses related to the acquisition of Mayne Pharma during the quarter. GAAP diluted earnings per share in the first quarter of 2006 were $0.49.
                 
"Hospira's year is off to a good start," said Christopher B. Begley, chief executive officer. "We continued to advance the business during the quarter and remain on track with our earnings expectations for the full year. We also completed the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, a significant move that expands our global leadership position in generic injectable pharmaceuticals, and our integration efforts are now fully in motion. We continue to believe that 2007 will mark another year of significant progress for Hospira, as we build on the momentum we've created by executing our growth strategies."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First-quarter Financial Highlights
The following table highlights net sales, net income and diluted earnings (loss) per share results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, which also includes the financial results for Mayne Pharma for Feb. 2 through March 31, 2007.
 
 
The primary components of the year-over-year increase in net sales for the first quarter are as follows:
                 
Mayne Pharma acquisition  a favorable 17.0 percentage points;
                 
Favorable foreign currency translation  0.4 percentage point; and
                 
Favorable pricing in the U.S.  0.3 percentage point.
A schedule detailing sales by product line for the first quarters of 2007 and 2006 is attached to this press release.
2
First-quarter 2007 results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
include $133.0 million of pre-tax expenses related to the Feb. 2 Mayne Pharma acquisition. The expenses include charges associated with acquired in-process research and development (R&D); inventory step-up, which is the excess of fair value relative to book value of certain inventory on hand at the date of the acquisition; amortization of intangibles; and integration and other acquisition-related costs.
GAAP results for the first quarters of 2007 and 2006 also include costs related to Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives, non-recurring transition expenses in 2006 relating to Hospira's spin-off from Abbott Laboratories and other items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
Significant First-quarter Events
Completed the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, an Australia-based specialty injectable pharmaceuticals company, for a total transaction value of approximately US$2.1 billion. As a result of the acquisition, Hospira is now the global leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals.
                 
3
Announced a new commercial leadership structure to foster a stronger global perspective, reinforce Hospira's connection to customers and establish a solid foundation for future growth. The new structure includes three regional presidents, and two presidents driving global strategy and growth in the key business areas of pharmaceuticals and devices.
                 
Successfully completed a $1.425 billion debt offering, with bond maturities ranging from three to 10 years. Hospira used the proceeds to finance the majority of the Mayne Pharma acquisition.
                 
Announced collaborations with several leading hospital information system providers to establish communications interfaces between their technologies and Hospira's medication management solutions.
                 
4
Additional First-quarter Information
In conjunction with the previous table, the following summarizes the financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007:
 
The improvement in adjusted* gross margin was attributable primarily to better product mix in Hospira's legacy business, the inclusion of Mayne Pharma in consolidated results, and a $4.6 million benefit from an insurance settlement relating to a business interruption at a Hospira facility during 2004. Partially offsetting these factors were lower production volumes and the related impact on manufacturing activity, as well as higher freight and distribution costs, mainly in the International segment.
5
The inclusion of Mayne Pharma accounted for the majority of the increase in adjusted* R&D expense. Larger investments in drug development programs also contributed to the increase.
The higher adjusted* Selling, General and Administrative (S,G&A) expense was driven primarily by the addition of Mayne Pharma, as well as by higher, ongoing, incremental costs associated with establishing Hospira's international infrastructure.
The decrease in adjusted* operating margin was due to the higher R&D and S,G&A expenses, which more than offset the increase in adjusted* gross margin.
Cash Flow
Cash flow from operations for the first quarter of 2007 was $49.8 million, down from $130.5 million in 2006. The decrease in cash flow relates in part to significant payments made on acquired Mayne Pharma liabilities, including merger advisory fees; higher interest expense; and acquisition-related expenses.
Capital expenditures were $51.9 million for the first quarter of 2007, compared with $76.0 million for the same period in 2006. The decrease relates mainly to lower spending in 2007 related to manufacturing optimization initiatives and to the completion of the build-out of the company's independent infrastructure in 2006.
6
2007 Projections
Hospira continues to project that net sales for the 2007 year will be in the $3.40 billion to $3.48 billion range, representing growth of approximately 26 to 29 percent. The company's net sales growth projections, excluding Mayne Pharma sales, remain between 3 and 5 percent.
Hospira also continues to project that adjusted* diluted earnings per share for 2007 will be in the range of $2.11 to $2.16. The reconciliation between the projected adjusted* and GAAP-basis diluted earnings per share is:
 
7
Hospira expects to incur approximately $95 million to $110 million of cash expenditures related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition over the two-year period following the close of the acquisition on Feb. 2, 2007. Of these, the company expects to record approximately $60 million to $75 million as expense on the consolidated statements of income, with $45 million to $55 million estimated in 2007. The remainder of the cash expenditures relate to capital projects and purchase accounting items, such as severance.
Hospira now expects cash flow from operations in 2007 to be in the $450 million to $500 million range, a decrease of $50 million from its previous projection. The company's assumptions about the level of cash on the balance sheet at the end of 2007 remain unchanged. The decrease in the cash flow from operations projection relates primarily to significant payments made on acquired Mayne liabilities. These liabilities were paid with the higher-than-expected level of cash acquired at the time of the closing of the acquisition, which is reflected in the net amount of the acquisition reported under the "Cash Flow Used in Investing Activities" section of the consolidated statements of cash flows.
The company continues to expect capital expenditures to range between $230 million and $260 million in 2007. The company anticipates that depreciation and amortization will range between $230 million and $240 million, which includes amortization of $46 million related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition.
8
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules attached to this release. For more information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, please see Hospira's Current Report on Form 8-K furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
The 2006 adjusted diluted earnings per share figure of $0.63 differs from the adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.62 reported in the first quarter of 2006. The difference relates to a reclassification made in the second quarter of 2006 of certain first-quarter costs, which were determined to be non-recurring transition costs associated with the spin-off from Abbott, rather than ongoing costs. The reclassification had an impact of less than one penny on first-quarter 2006 adjusted diluted earnings per share. This reclassification also affected first-quarter 2006 gross margin, income from operations and net income.
Webcast
A conference call for investors and media will be held at 8 a.m. Central Time on Wednesday, May 9, 2007. A live webcast of the conference call will be available at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper computer setup for receiving the webcast. A replay will be available on the Hospira Web site for 30 days following the call.
9
About Hospira
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness
 by developing, manufacturing and marketing products that help improve the productivity, safety and efficacy of patient care. In February 2007, Hospira acquired Mayne Pharma Limited to become the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals. With 70 years of service to the hospital industry, Hospira's portfolio includes one of the industry's broadest lines of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, which help address the high cost of proprietary pharmaceuticals; and integrated solutions for medication management and infusion therapy. Headquartered north of Chicago in Lake Forest, Ill., Hospira has approximately 15,000 employees worldwide. Hospira's news releases and other information can be found at www.hospira.com.
10
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations, statements regarding the financial impact of the acquisition of Mayne Pharma and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.
Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is incorporated by reference.
Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
11
 
 
 
A -- Includes inventory step-up charge of $21,408 and intangible assets amortization of $8,428 related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition; costs of $10,838 related to the planned closures of the Donegal, Ireland; Ashland, OH; Montreal, Canada; and North Chicago, IL facilities as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; and Mayne Pharma integration costs of $1,444.
B -- Acquisition integration costs.
C -- Acquired in-process research and development related to the acquisition of Mayne Pharma.
D -- Acquisition integration costs.
E -- Other acquisition-related cost: bridge loan fees incurred as a result of the Mayne Pharma acquisition expensed upon refinancing of loan during the first quarter.
F -- Other acquisition-related cost: foreign exchange losses related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition.
G -- Reflects the tax effect of the above adjustments, except for the non-tax deductible write-off of acquired in-process research and development related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition.
H -- Includes costs of $16,059 related to the planned closures of the Donegal, Ireland; Ashland, OH; Montreal, Canada; and North Chicago, IL facilities as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; and non-recurring transition costs of $2,769.
I -- Non-recurring transition costs.
J -- Reflects the tax effect of the above adjustments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


