FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20071108083519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 8, 2007, we issued a press release announcing our 2007 third quarter results of operations.  Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Item 2.02, including the press release incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of our results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, statements regarding the financial impact of the acquisition of Mayne Pharma Limited ("Mayne Pharma") and other statements regarding our goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the Quarters ended March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We present "non-GAAP financial measures" in the press release, including:
 - 
                 
adjusted cost of products sold;
 - 
                 
adjusted gross profit;
 - 
                 
adjusted research and development expense;
 - 
                 
adjusted selling, general and administrative expense;
 - 
                 
adjusted income from operations;
 - 
                 
adjusted interest expense;
 - 
                 
adjusted other income (net);
 - 
                 
adjusted income tax expense;
 - 
                 
adjusted net income;
 - 
                 
adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share; and
 - 
                 
statistics using one or more of such adjusted measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items from the most comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States ("GAAP").  Each of these measures is presented together with the most comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP.  The excluded items are:
Manufacturing Optimization. 
These charges and expenses relate to the sale of our Salt Lake City manufacturing facility and the closure, or pending closures, of our Ashland, Ohio; Donegal, Ireland; and Montreal, Canada facilities and our departure from the North Chicago, Illinois manufacturing facility, which were announced in 2005 and 2006.   These charges and expenses include restructuring charges and expenses relating to the relocation of production from the affected facilities to other facilities.  Partially offsetting these charges and expenses are gains on the sale of the Donegal and Montreal facilities, and reductions of the obligations to the purchaser of the Salt Lake City facility recorded in subsequent periods.
All of these facilities were transferred to us in connection with our 2004 spin-off from Abbott Laboratories, and our management determined that these facilities would not be used in our operations in future periods to reduce our future ongoing operating costs and improve the efficiency of our manufacturing operations. Accordingly, we do not believe that the charges and expenses relating to the closure or disposal of these facilities, and the transfer of production to other facilities, are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business performance and normal operations.  We expect to incur expenses for these initiatives through 2009.  As the product relocation expenses
and certain restructuring charges are incurred in cash, excluding these items has the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures.
We incurred these charges and expenses, net of the gains and reductions of obligations described above, on a pre-tax basis in the amount of $8.0 million and $18.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 and in the amount of $31.9 million and $41.3 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, which are recorded in cost of products sold.
Purchase Accounting Charges. 
 On February 2, 2007, we acquired Mayne Pharma Limited.  For the nine months ended September 30, 2007, we recorded a $53.1 million non-cash inventory step-up charge in cost of products sold.  During the three months ended March 31, 2007, we also incurred a non-cash charge of $84.8 million of acquired in-process research and development.  As these types of charges are incurred in connection with, and in the period of, the completion of acquisitions, and the amount of these charges depends upon the allocation of the purchase price in accordance with applicable accounting rules, the timing and amount of these charges are unpredictable.  These charges have materially affected our reported financial results for the nine months ended September 30, 2007, but are not necessarily reflective of our ongoing business performance.  Exclusion of these charges from the adjusted financial measures results in economic costs to us not being reflected in our adjusted net income and earnings per share.
Acquisition and Integration-Related Expenses.  
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 we incurred $8.4 million and $32.6 million, respectively, of expenses relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma into our operations.  These are recorded as cost of products sold, research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense as detailed in the schedules to the press release.  During the three months ended March 31, 2007, we also incurred $7.9 million of other acquisition-related charges, including foreign exchange losses relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition (recorded in other income (net)) and fees incurred in connection with the bridge loan to finance the acquisition (recorded as interest expense).  During the two-year period after the closing of the acquisition, we estimate that we will incur approximately $60 million to $75 million of aggregate cash expenses related to the integration and other acquisition-related expenses.  We do not believe that these expenses are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business operations, as they were necessitated by a significant acquisition and will be incurred over a finite period.  Excluding these expenses will have the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures.
Amortization of Mayne Pharma Intangible Assets. 
Based on our purchase price allocation relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, we recorded $518.2 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet, which will be amortized over their useful lives, resulting in significant non-cash expenses.During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007, we recorded $13.4 million and $34.9 million, respectively, of amortization expense resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition in cost of products sold.
 
The amount of amortization expense can vary significantly among companies in our industry depending on the frequency, size and nature of acquisitions. While recording amortization is intended to represent the decrease in value of these intangible assets over time, the amount of recorded amortization may not necessarily represent our operating performance during the periods recorded because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating the fair value and useful lives of intangible assets at the time of the acquisition.  In order to assist comparability to our prior results and to the results of other companies in our industry with different acquisition histories, we have excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets in connection with the Mayne Pharma acquisition from our adjusted financial measures.  We have not previously excluded amortization expense in calculating our adjusted measures.  Prior to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, amortization has not been material to prior periods.  Exclusion of amortization relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition effectively results in the recording of acquired intangible assets without recording any expense relating to the use of these assets in our business.
Non-Recurring Transition Expenses. 
These expenses related to our transition to an independent public company as a result of our 2004 spin-off from Abbott.  We finished incurring these expenses in 2006.  These expenses primarily were for establishing new facilities, building out independent information systems, and product re-registration and re-labeling. We believe that these expenses were not necessarily indicative of our ongoing business performance as these expenses were necessitated by our spin-off. Excluding these expenses had the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures in periods through 2006.  On a pre-tax basis, we incurred $4.5 million and $30.8 million of these expenses in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006, respectively.  We incurred none of these expenses in 2007.
The schedules included in the press release that reconcile the adjusted financial measures to the financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP indicate the amount of such expenses excluded from cost of products sold, gross profit, research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense to arrive at the corresponding adjusted financial measure.
Adjustments have been made to income tax expense in the appropriate period to take into account any tax effect of each excluded item.
All adjusted measures are reconciled to the most comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP in the press release.  We believe that presenting measures excluding the items described above, along with measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, provide investors with more information to assess our operating performance and prospects.  We also believe that excluding these items assists comparability with past performance.  Our management uses these adjusted measures as supplemental measures in assessing its own performancefor example, these measures are used in establishing our annual and long-term operating plans, presented to our board of directors in its review of our financial performance and considered in establishing targets under employee incentive plans. Since these measures allow investors to assess our performance on a similar basis as our management assesses our performance, we believe that investors have more information to assess the performance of management in executing its goals and strategies.
Non-GAAP financial measures are not presented in accordance with a body of comprehensive accounting principles and should not be considered a substitute for any GAAP measure.  The measures we use result largely from our management's determination as to whether the facts and circumstances surrounding certain transactions and events are indicative of the ordinary course of the ongoing operation of our business.  As a result, non-GAAP financial measures as presented by us may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
Our management uses non-GAAP financial measures as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Accordingly, these measures should be considered together with the corresponding financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.  In addition, our management reviews, and encourages investors to review, our balance sheets and statements of cash flows in order to make a complete evaluation and assessment of our financial performance.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)     Exhibits.
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2007 RESULTS
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Nov. 8, 2007  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a leading global hospital products company, today reported results for the third quarter ended Sept. 30, 2007.
 - 
                 
Net sales increased 29.6 percent to $838.0 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $646.6 million in the third quarter last year. Net sales excluding Mayne Pharma sales grew 4.0 percent.
 - 
                 
Adjusted* third-quarter 2007 diluted earnings per share were $0.49 versus $0.45 in 2006. GAAP third-quarter 2007 diluted earnings per share were $0.37 versus $0.35 for the same period last year.
 
"The third quarter was one of solid growth for Hospira's core products and continued progress across the company, and we remain on track to achieve our 2007 earnings projections," said Christopher B. Begley, chairman and chief executive officer. "We're on schedule with our Mayne Pharma integration, and we recently achieved another milestone toward launching our first biogeneric next year in Europe. In advancing our strategies, we are positioning Hospira for sustained future growth."
 
 
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2007 RESULTS PAGE 2
 
 
Third-quarter Financial Highlights
The following table highlights net sales, net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) results for the quarter ended Sept. 30:
 
 
The primary components of the year-over-year increase in net sales for the third quarter are as follows:
 - 
                 
Mayne Pharma acquisition  25.6 percentage points;
 - 
                 
Favorable volume/mix in the legacy Hospira business  2.1 percentage points;
 - 
                 
Favorable pricing in the U.S.  0.9 percentage point; and
 - 
                 
Favorable foreign currency translation  0.9 percentage point.
 
A schedule detailing sales by product line for the three-month and nine-month periods ended Sept. 30, 2007 and 2006 is attached to this press release.
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2007 RESULTS PAGE 3
In conjunction with the previous table, the following summarizes the financial results for the third quarter of 2007 compared to the same period in 2006:
 
 
Results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include amortization of intangibles resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition and the Mayne Pharma integration charges in 2007; charges related to Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives in 2007 and 2006; and other items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
 
The year-over-year improvementin adjusted* gross profit as a percentage of net sales, or gross margin, was driven by the inclusion of Mayne Pharma in the consolidated results and a better mix of Hospira legacy products.
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2007 RESULTS PAGE 4
The inclusion of the results of Mayne Pharma accounted for most of the increase in adjusted* Research and Development (R&D) and the adjusted* Selling, General and Administrative (S,G&A). The increase in R&D was also driven by higher spending related to the clinical trials for Precedex
, a proprietary drug for conscious sedation.  Broad-based inflation also affected the adjusted* S,G&A results.
 
The increase in adjusted* income from operations as a percentage of net sales, or operating margin, was driven by the higher gross margin, which was partially offset by higher adjusted* R&D as a percentage of sales.
 
Nine-month Financial Highlights
The following table highlights the key financial metrics for the first nine months of 2007 compared to the same period in 2006:
 
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2007 RESULTS PAGE 5
Results under GAAP include the effects of the write-off of acquired in-process R&D relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, purchase accounting charges and amortization of intangibles resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition,
and the Mayne Pharma integration charges in 2007; charges related to Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives in 2007 and 2006;
and other items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
 
Cash Flow
Cash flow from operations for the first nine months of 2007 was $354.5 million, up from $331.9 million in 2006.
 
Capital expenditures were $128.7 million for the first nine months of 2007, compared to $183.6 million for the same period in 2006. The decline is due to lower expenditures in 2007 related to the company's manufacturing optimization initiatives and to information technology as the company completed the build-out of its independent system in 2006.
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2007 RESULTS PAGE 6
2007 Projections
Hospira continues to project that adjusted* diluted earnings per share for 2007 will be in the range of $2.11 to $2.16. The reconciliation between the projected adjusted* diluted earnings per share and GAAP earnings per share is:
 
The company continues to expect net sales growth for 2007 to be approximately 26 to 28 percent. Excluding Mayne Pharma sales, the company expects net sales growth to be in its previously projected range of 3 to 4 percent.
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2007 RESULTS PAGE 7
The company continues to project that cash flow from operations in 2007 will be in the $450 million to $500 million range. The company also continues to expect that depreciation and amortization, excluding amortization of intangibles related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, will be between $185 million and $195 million. Capital expenditures are now projected to be between $220 million and $240 million.
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules attached to this release. For more information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, please see Hospira's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
Webcast
Hospira will hold a conference call for investors and media at 8 a.m. Central Time on Thursday, Nov. 8, 2007. A live webcast of the conference call will be available at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper computer setup for receiving the webcast. A replay will be available on the Hospira Web site for 30 days following the call.
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2007 RESULTS PAGE 8
About Hospira
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness by developing, manufacturing and marketing products that help improve the productivity, safety and efficacy of patient care. In February 2007, Hospira acquired Mayne Pharma Limited to become the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals. With 70 years of service to the hospital industry, Hospira's portfolio includes one of the industry's broadest lines of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, which help address the high cost of proprietary pharmaceuticals; and integrated solutions for medication management and infusion therapy. Headquartered north of Chicago in Lake Forest, Ill., Hospira has approximately 15,000 employees worldwide. Hospira's news releases and other information can be found at www.hospira.com.
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2007 RESULTS PAGE 9
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, statements regarding the financial impact of the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.
Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006, and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference.
Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
nm = Percent change is not meaningful.
 
 
 
nm = Percent change is not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
nm = Percent change is not meaningful.
 
 
 
Adjustment figures may not add due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
 
nm
= Percent change is not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
nm
= Percent change is not meaningful.
 
 
 
nm
= Percent change is not meaningful.
 


