FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20070808090131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
August 8, 2007
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported)
HOSPIRA, INC.
(Exact Name of Regisrtant as Specified in Its Charter)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 8, 2007, we issued a press release announcing our 2007 second quarter results of operations.  Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Item 2.02, including the press release incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of our results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, statements regarding the financial impact of the acquisition of Mayne Pharma and other statements regarding our goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended March 31, 2007, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We present "non-GAAP financial measures" in the press release, including:
adjusted cost of products sold;
                 
adjusted gross profit;
                 
adjusted research and development expense;
                 
adjusted selling, general and administrative expense;
                 
adjusted income from operations;
                 
adjusted interest expense;
                 
adjusted other income (net);
                 
adjusted income tax expense;
                 
adjusted net income;
                 
adjusted diluted earnings per share; and
                 
statistics using one or more of such adjusted measures.
                 
These non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items from the most comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles of the United States.  Each of these measures is presented together with the most comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP.  The excluded items are:
These charges and expenses relate to the sale of our Salt Lake City manufacturing facility and the closure, or pending closures, of our Ashland, Ohio; Donegal, Ireland; and Montreal, Canada facilities and our departure from the North Chicago, Illinois manufacturing facility, which were announced in 2005 and 2006.   These charges and expenses include restructuring charges and expenses relating to the relocation of production from the affected facilities to other facilities.  Partially offsetting these charges and expenses are gains on the sale of the Donegal and Montreal facilities, and reductions of the obligations to the purchaser of the Salt Lake City facility recorded in subsequent periods.
Manufacturing Optimization. 
All of these facilities were transferred to us in connection with our 2004 spin-off from Abbott Laboratories, and our management determined that these facilities would not be used in our operations in future periods to reduce our future ongoing operating costs and improve the efficiency of our manufacturing operations. Accordingly, we do not believe that the charges and expenses relating to the closure or disposal of these facilities, and the transfer of production to other facilities, are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business performance and normal operations.  We expect to incur these expenses through 2010.  As the product relocation expenses and certain
2
 
restructuring charges are incurred in cash, excluding these items has the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures.
We incurred these charges and expenses, net of the gains and reductions of obligations described above, on a pre-tax basis in the amount of $13.0 million and $6.9 million in the second quarter of 2007 and 2006 and in the amount of $23.9 million and $23.0 million in the six months ended on June 30, 2007 and 2006, which are recorded in cost of products sold.
 On February 2, 2007, we acquired Mayne Pharma Limited.  For the second quarter of 2007 and the six months ended June 30, 2007, we recorded a $31.7 million and $53.1 million non-cash inventory step-up charge in cost of products sold.  During the first quarter of 2007, we also incurred a non-cash charge of $84.8 million of acquired in-process research and development.  As these types of charges are incurred in connection with, and in the period of, the completion of acquisitions, and the amount of these charges depends upon the allocation of the purchase price in accordance with applicable accounting rules, the timing and amount of these charges are unpredictable.  These charges have materially affected our reported financial results for the second quarter of 2007 and the six months ended June 30, 2007, but are not necessarily reflective of our ongoing business performance.  Exclusion of these charges from the adjusted financial measures results in economic costs to us not being reflected in our adjusted net income and earnings per share.
Purchase Accounting Charges. 
During the second quarter of 2007, and the six months ended June 30, 2007, we incurred $13.6 and $24.2 million of expenses relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma into our operations. These are recorded as selling, general and administrative expense, cost of products sold and research and development expense as detailed in the schedules to the press release.  During the first quarter of 2007, we also incurred $7.9 million of other acquisition-related charges, including foreign exchange losses relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition (recorded in other income (net)) and fees incurred in connection with the bridge loan to finance the acquisition (recorded as interest expense).  During the two-year period after the closing of the acquisition, we estimate that we will incur approximately $60 million to $75 million of aggregate cash expenses related to the integration and other acquisition-related expenses.  We do not believe that these expenses are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business operations, as they were necessitated by a significant acquisition and will be incurred over a finite period.  Excluding these expenses will have the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures.
Acquisition and Integration-Related Expenses.  
Based on our purchase price allocation relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, we recorded approximately $518.2 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet, which will be amortized over their useful lives, resulting in significant non-cash expenses.During the second quarter of 2007 and the six month period ended June 30, 2007, we respectively recorded $13.2 million and $21.6 million of amortization expense resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition in cost of products sold.
Amortization of Mayne Pharma Intangible Assets. 
 
The amount of amortization expense can vary significantly among companies in our industry depending on the frequency, size and nature of acquisitions. While recording amortization is intended to represent the decrease in value of these intangible assets over time, the amount of recorded amortization may not necessarily represent our operating performance during the periods recorded because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating the fair value and useful lives of intangible assets at the time of the acquisition.  In order to assist comparability to our prior results and to the results of other companies in our industry with different acquisition histories, we have excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets in connection with the Mayne Pharma acquisition from our adjusted financial measures.  We have not previously excluded amortization expense in calculating our adjusted measures.  Amortization has not been material to prior periods.  Exclusion of amortization relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition effectively results in the recording of acquired intangible assets without recording any expense relating to the use of these assets in our business.
These expenses related to our transition to an independent public company as a result of our 2004 spin-off from Abbott.  We finished incurring these expenses in 2006.  These expenses primarily were for establishing new facilities, building out independent information systems, and product re-registration and re-labeling. We believe that these expenses were not necessarily indicative of our ongoing business performance as these expenses were necessitated by our spin-off. Excluding these expenses had the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures in periods through 2006.  On a pre-tax basis, we incurred $11.0 million and $26.3 million of these expenses in the second quarter of 2006 and in the six months ended June 30, 2006.  We incurred none of these expenses in 2007.
Non-Recurring Transition Expenses. 
3
 
The schedules included in the press release that reconcile the adjusted financial measures to the financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP indicate the amount of such expenses excluded from cost of products sold, gross profit, research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense to arrive at the corresponding adjusted financial measure.
Adjustments have been made to income tax expense in the appropriate period to take into account any tax effect of each excluded item.
All adjusted measures are reconciled to the most comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP in the press release.  We believe that presenting measures excluding the items described above, along with measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, provide investors with more information to assess our operating performance and prospects.  We also believe that excluding these items assists comparability with past performance.  Our management uses these adjusted measures as supplemental measures in assessing its own performancefor example, these measures are used in establishing our annual and long-term operating plans, presented to our board of directors in its review of our financial performance and considered in establishing targets under employee incentive plans. Since these measures allow investors to assess our performance on a similar basis as our management assesses our performance, we believe that investors have more information to assess the performance of management in executing its goals and strategies.
Non-GAAP financial measures are not presented in accordance with a body of comprehensive accounting principles and should not be considered a substitute for any GAAP measure.  The measures we use result largely from our management's determination as to whether the facts and circumstances surrounding certain transactions and events are indicative of the ordinary course of the ongoing operation of our business.  As a result, non-GAAP financial measures as presented by us may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
Our management uses non-GAAP financial measures as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Accordingly, these measures should be considered together with the corresponding financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.  In addition, our management reviews, and encourages investors to review, our balance sheets and statements of cash flows in order to make a complete evaluation and assessment of our financial performance.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)     Exhibits.
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
4
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
5

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
HOSPIRA REPORTS SECOND-QUARTER 2007 RESULTS
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Aug. 8, 2007  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a leading global hospital products company, today reported results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2007.
Net sales in the second quarter increased 29.5 percent to $869.4 million compared to $671.1 million in the second quarter last year. Net sales excluding Mayne Pharma sales grew 2.8 percent.
                 
Adjusted* second-quarter 2007 diluted earnings per share were $0.49 versus $0.43 in 2006. GAAP second-quarter 2007 diluted earnings per share were $0.20 versus $0.34 for the same period last year.
                 
"Backed by another quarter of solid performance, we are reaffirming our 2007 earnings projections and continue to expect strong contributions from our specialty generic injectables and medication management systems products," said Christopher B. Begley, chairman and chief executive officer. "We've made significant, positive progress in advancing our business strategies and integrating the recently acquired Mayne Pharma organization, key initiatives that position Hospira for sustained growth."
1
Second-quarter Financial Highlights
The following table highlights net sales, net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) results for the quarter ended June 30:
The primary components of the year-over-year increase in net sales for the second quarter are as follows:
                 
Mayne Pharma acquisition  26.7 percentage points;
                 
Favorable volume/mix in the legacy Hospira business  1.8 percentage points;
                 
Favorable foreign currency translation  0.6 percentage point; and
                 
Favorable pricing in the U.S.  0.3 percentage point.
A schedule detailing sales by product line for the three-month and six-month periods of 2007 and 2006 is attached to this press release.
2
 
In conjunction with the previous table, the following summarizes the financial results for the second quarter of 2007 compared to the same period in 2006:
 
 
Results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include the effects of purchase accounting charges and amortization of intangibles resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition, the Mayne Pharma integration charges, charges related to Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives, and other items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
The year-over-year improvementin adjusted* gross margin was attributable primarily to the inclusion of Mayne Pharma in the consolidated results and a better mix of Hospira legacy products.
3
 
The inclusion of the results of Mayne Pharma accounted for most of the increase in adjusted* Research and Development (R&D) expense and the adjusted* Selling, General and Administrative (S,G&A) expense. Also affecting the adjusted* S,G&A results were higher stock option expense, as well as inflation and an increase in sales and marketing expense in the legacy Hospira business.
The increase in adjusted* operating margin was due to higher adjusted* gross margins, which were partially offset by higher adjusted* R&D and adjusted* S,G&A.
Six-month Financial Highlights
The following highlights the key financial metrics for the first six months of 2007 compared to the same period in 2006:
 
4
 
Results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include the effects of the write-off of acquired in-process R&D relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, purchase accounting charges and amortization of intangibles resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition,
the Mayne Pharma integration charges, charges related to Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives
, and other items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
Cash Flow
Cash flow from operations for the first six months of 2007 was $171.6 million, down from $179.9 million in 2006.
Capital expenditures were $88.5 million for the first half of 2007, compared to $139.8 million for the same period in 2006. The decline is due to lower expenditures in 2007 on information technology as the company completed the build-out of its independent system in 2006, decreased expenditures for the company's manufacturing optimization initiatives and the overall timing of capital spending.
2007 Projections
Hospira has narrowed the projected range of net sales for the year. Full-year 2007 net sales are now expected to be between $3.40 billion and $3.44 billion, representing growth of approximately 26 to 28 percent. Excluding Mayne Pharma sales, the company expects net sales growth to be between 3 and 4 percent.
5
 
Hospira continues to project that adjusted* diluted earnings per share for 2007 will be in the range of $2.11 to $2.16. The reconciliation between the projected adjusted* diluted earnings per share and GAAP-basis earnings per share is:
 
The company continues to project that cash flow from operations in 2007 will be in the $450 million to $500 million range. The company also continues to expect that depreciation and amortization, excluding amortization related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, will be between $185 million and $195 million. The projection for capital expenditures has been updated and is now expected to be between $230 million and $250 million.
6
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules attached to this release. For more information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, please see Hospira's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
Webcast
Hospira will hold a conference call for investors and media at 8 a.m. Central Time on Wednesday, Aug. 8, 2007. A live webcast of the conference call will be available at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper computer setup for receiving the webcast. A replay will be available on the Hospira Web site for 30 days following the call.
7
 
About Hospira
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness by developing, manufacturing and marketing products that help improve the productivity, safety and efficacy of patient care. In February 2007, Hospira acquired Mayne Pharma Limited to become the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals. With 70 years of service to the hospital industry, Hospira's portfolio includes one of the industry's broadest lines of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, which help address the high cost of proprietary pharmaceuticals; and integrated solutions for medication management and infusion therapy. Headquartered north of Chicago in Lake Forest, Ill., Hospira has approximately 15,000 employees worldwide. Hospira's news releases and other information can be found at www.hospira.com.
8
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, statements regarding the financial impact of the acquisition of Mayne Pharma and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.
Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006, and Hospira's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference.
Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
9
 
 
 
 
 
Hospira, Inc. Reconciliation of Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited) (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
AIncludes inventory step-up charge of $31,705 and intangible assets amortization of $13,162 related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition; charges of $14,605 related to the planned closures of the Donegal, Ireland; Ashland, OH; Montreal, Canada; and North Chicago, IL facilities as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; a reduction of the obligation associated with the sale of the Salt Lake City manufacturing plant to ICU Medical ($1,579); and Mayne Pharma integration charges of $4,087.
BAcquisition integration charges.
CReflects the tax effect of the above adjustments.
DIncludes charges of $15,892 related to the planned closures of the Donegal, Ireland; Ashland, OH; Montreal, Canada; and North Chicago, IL facilities as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; a reduction of the obligation associated with the sale of the Salt Lake City manufacturing plant to ICU Medical ($1,100); a gain on the sale of the Donegal, Ireland facility ($7,851); and non-recurring transition charges of $1,362.
ENon-recurring transition charges.
FReflects the tax effect of the above adjustments and the impact of decreasing the overall effective tax rate from 26.5% to 25.5%.
 
 
Hospira, Inc. Reconciliation of Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited) (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
A  Includes inventory step-up charge of $53,113 and intangible assets amortization of $21,590 related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition; charges of $25,443 related to the planned closures of the Donegal, Ireland; Ashland, OH; Montreal, Canada; and North Chicago, IL facilities as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; a reduction of the obligation associated with the sale of the Salt Lake City manufacturing plant to ICU Medical ($1,579); and Mayne Pharma integration charges of $5,531.
B  Acquisition integration charges.
C  Acquired in-process research and development related to the acquisition of Mayne Pharma.
D  Acquisition integration charges.
E  Other acquisition-related charge: bridge loan fees incurred as a result of the Mayne Pharma acquisition expensed upon refinancing of loan during the first quarter.
F  Other acquisition-related charge: foreign exchange losses related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition.
G  Reflects the tax effect of the above adjustments, except for the non-tax deductible write-off of acquired in-process research and development related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition.
H  Includes charges of $31,951 related to the planned closures of the Donegal, Ireland; Ashland, OH; Montreal, Canada; and North Chicago, IL facilities as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives;  a reduction of the obligation associated with the sale of the Salt Lake City manufacturing plant to ICU Medical ($1,100); a gain on the sale of the Donegal, Ireland facility ($7,851); and non-recurring transition charges of $4,131.
I  Non-recurring transition charges.
J  Reflects the tax effect of the above adjustments.
 
 
Hospira, Inc. Reconciliation of Diluted Earnings Per Share (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hospira, Inc. Net Sales by Product Line (Unaudited) (dollars in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


