FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20070228073948.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM 8-K
HOSPIRA, INC.
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
                                   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                                   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 28, 2007, we issued a press release announcing our 2006 fourth quarter results of operations.  Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Item 2.02, including the press release incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, statements regarding the financial impact of the acquisition of Mayne Pharma and other statements regarding our goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2005, and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2006, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We present "non-GAAP financial measures" in the press release, including:
      adjusted cost of goods sold;       adjusted gross profit;       adjusted research and development expense;       adjusted selling, general and administrative expense;       adjusted income from operations;       adjusted net income;       adjusted diluted earnings per share; and       statistics using one or more of such adjusted measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items from the most comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles of the United States.  Each of these measures is presented together with the most comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP.  The excluded items are:
These expenses relate to our transition to an independent public company as a result of our spin-off from Abbott Laboratories in 2004.  These expenses primarily are for establishing new facilities, building out independent information systems, and product re-registration and re-labeling. However, we believe that these expenses are not necessarily indicative of our ongoing business performance as these expenses were necessitated by our spin-off and are not expected to be incurred on an ongoing basis for periods after 2006. Excluding these expenses has the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures.
Non-recurring Transition Expenses. 
On a pre-tax basis, we incurred $4.2 million and $15.0 million of these expenses in the fourth quarters of 2006 and 2005 and $35.0 million and $46.0 million in the full years of 2006 and 2005.  The schedules included in the press release that reconcile the adjusted financial measures to the financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP indicate the amount of such expenses excluded from cost of goods sold, gross profit, research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense to arrive at the corresponding adjusted financial measure.
These charges, expenses, gains and losses relate to the sale of our Salt Lake City, Utah manufacturing facility, and the closure, or pending closures, of our Ashland, Ohio; Donegal, Ireland; and Montreal, Canada facilities and our departure from the North Chicago, Illinois manufacturing facility, which were announced in 2005 and 2006.   These charges and expenses include charges relating to the sale of the Salt Lake City facility, asset impairment charges, restructuring charges and expenses relating to the relocation of production from the affected facilities to other facilities.  Also excluded are gains on the sale of the Donegal and Montreal facilities, and reductions of the obligations to the purchaser of the Salt Lake City facility recorded in subsequent periods.
Manufacturing Optimization. 
All of these facilities were transferred to us in connection with the spin-off from Abbott, and our management determined that these facilities would not be used in our operations in future periods to reduce our future ongoing operating costs and improve the efficiency of our manufacturing operations. Accordingly, we do not believe that the charges, expenses, gains and losses relating to the closure or disposal of these facilities, and the transfer of production to other facilities, are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business performance and normal operations.  We expect to incur these expenses through 2010.  As the product relocation expenses and certain restructuring charges are incurred in cash, excluding these items has the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures.
2
On a pre-tax basis, net of the gains and reductions of obligations described above, we incurred $8.3 million and $19.8 million of these charges and expenses in the fourth quarters of 2006 and 2005 and $49.6 million and $37.9 million in the full years of 2006 and 2005, which are recorded in cost of goods sold.
  The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Jobs Act") provided for a one-time dividends received deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign earnings. During 2005, Hospira repatriated $175 million of qualified undistributed foreign earnings and incurred income tax expense related to this repatriation of $9.1 million.  Because the ability to repatriate foreign earnings under the Jobs Act was made available during a period that has already expired, we did not and will not incur any additional tax expense associated with the repatriation of funds in any subsequent fiscal period. As such, we believe that the one-time tax expense that we incurred is not necessarily indicative of our ongoing business performance.  Excluding this expense has the effect of excluding a significant cash expenditure from the adjusted financial measures.
Repatriation of Taxes.
In the fourth quarter of 2006, we acquired BresaGen Limited.  In connection with this acquisition, we incurred a $10 million non-cash charge relating to the write-off of acquired in-process research and development.  In the first quarter of 2007, we acquired Mayne Pharma Limited and expect to incur substantial non-cash charges relating to in-process research and development and write-up of inventory. As these types of charges are incurred in connection with the completion of acquisitions, and the amount of these charges depends upon the allocation of the purchase price in accordance with applicable accounting rules, the timing and amount of these charges are unpredictable.  These charges can materially affect our reported financial results, but are not necessarily reflective of our ongoing business performance.  Exclusion of these charges from the adjusted financial measures results in economic costs to us not being reflected in our adjusted net income and earnings per share.
Purchase Accounting Charges. 
During the fourth quarter of 2006, we incurred approximately $1.9 million of expenses relating to our acquisitions.  Over the next two years, we estimate that we will incur approximately $95 million to $110 million of aggregate expenses related to the integration of Mayne Pharma into our operations, the substantial majority of which will be in cash.  We do not believe that these expenses are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business operations, as they were necessitated by a significant acquisition and will be incurred over a finite period.  Excluding these expenses will have the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures.
Acquisition and Integration-Related Expenses.  
We expect to record intangible assets in connection with the Mayne Pharma acquisition, which will be amortized over their useful lives.  These are non-cash expenses that will not affect our liquidity in future periods, but may materially affect our net income and earnings per share.  The amount of amortization expense can vary significantly among companies in our industry depending on the frequency, size and nature of acquisitions. While recording amortization is intended to represent the decrease in value of these intangible assets over time, the amount of recorded amortization may not necessarily represent our operating performance during the periods recorded because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating the fair value and useful lives of intangible assets at the time of the acquisition.  Therefore, we intend to exclude the amortization of acquired intangible assets in connection with the Mayne Pharma acquisition from our adjusted financial measures in future periods.  We have not previously excluded amortization expense in calculating our adjusted measures.  Amortization has not been material to prior periods.  Exclusion of amortization relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition will effectively result in the recording of purchased acquired intangible assets without recording any expense relating to the use of these assets in our business.
Amortization of Mayne Pharma Intangible Assets. 
All adjusted measures are reconciled to the most comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP in the press release.  We believe that presenting measures excluding the items described above, along with measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, provide investors with more information to assess our operating performance and prospects.  We also believe that excluding these items assists comparability with past performance.  Our management uses these adjusted measures as supplemental measures in assessing its own performancefor example, these measures are used in establishing our annual and long-term operating plans, presented to our board of directors in its review of our financial performance and
3
establishing targets under employee incentive plans. Since these measures allow investors to assess our performance on a similar basis as our management assesses our performance, we believe that investors have more information to assess the performance of management in executing its goals and strategies.
We also present "core net sales" growth, which excludes from our net sales calculated in accordance with GAAP sales of Berlex imaging agents under an agreement that was in place at the time of the spin-off and terminated in 2005, sales to Abbott under transition arrangements entered into at the time of the spin-off and the impact of foreign currency.  Management believes that presentation of core net sales growth is useful to investors in that it provides investors additional measures to assess the underlying sales trend of those portions of Hospira's business that are expected to contribute to Hospira's ongoing performance.  During 2007, we will present sales growth that excludes the impact of the Mayne Pharma acquisition to assist comparability to past performance.
We adopted SFAS No. 123R and began recording expenses relating to issuance of stock options during 2006.  For purposes of comparing our adjusted earnings per share from 2005 to 2006, we also present on a supplemental basis 2005 adjusted earnings per share including pro forma stock option expense as if had we begun to record stock option expenses during 2005.  We believe that this presentation is useful to investors as it assists period-to-period comparability by presenting our expenses on a similar basis.
Non-GAAP financial measures are not presented in accordance with a body of comprehensive accounting principles and should not be considered a substitute for any GAAP measure.  The measures we use result largely from our management's determination as to whether the facts and circumstances surrounding certain transactions and events are indicative of the ordinary course of the ongoing operation of our business.  As a result, non-GAAP financial measures as presented by us may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
Our management uses non-GAAP financial measures as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Accordingly, these measures should be considered together with the corresponding financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.  In addition, our management reviews, and encourages investors to review, our balance sheet and statement of cash flows in order to make a complete evaluation and assessment of our financial performance.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
      
Exhibits.
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
4
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
5

Exhibit 99.1
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS FOURTH-QUARTER AND FULL-YEAR 2006 RESULTS
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Feb. 28, 2007  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE:HSP), a leading global hospital products company, today reported results for the fourth quarter and full year ended Dec. 31, 2006.
Fourth Quarter
:
Net sales in the fourth quarter increased 9.3 percent to $706.5 million. Core net sales*, which exclude sales to Abbott and the impact of foreign exchange, also grew 9.3 percent for the quarter.
                 
Adjusted* fourth-quarter diluted earnings per share were $0.43 versus $0.32 last year. Fourth-quarter 2006 adjusted* diluted earnings per share include $0.10 for the previously announced upfront payment to STADA for an R&D collaboration and $0.04 of stock option expense.
                 
GAAP fourth-quarter 2006 diluted earnings per share were $0.30 versus $0.16 for the same period in 2005.
                 
Full Year:
Net sales increased 2.4 percent to $2.69 billion versus $2.63 billion in 2005. Core net sales*, which exclude sales of Berlex imaging agents, sales to Abbott and the impact of foreign exchange, grew 5.4 percent.
                 
Adjusted* full-year 2006 diluted earnings per share were $1.94 versus $1.91 last year. Full-year 2006 adjusted* diluted earnings per share include $0.17 of stock option expense and $0.10 for the upfront payment to STADA.
                 
GAAP full-year 2006 diluted earnings per share were $1.48 versus $1.46 in 2005.
                 
Hospira, Inc.
275 North Field Drive
Lake Forest, IL 60045
www.hospira.com
"Our strong fourth-quarter results capped off a year of great progress and strategic achievements for Hospira," said Christopher B. Begley, chief executive officer. "During 2006, we not only completed our transition from Abbott, but also made important investments to competitively position Hospira for continued success. The most significant of these was the agreement to acquire Mayne Pharma Limited, which we completed earlier this month. Looking ahead, much of our focus in 2007 will be on successfully integrating the two companies and building on the momentum we've created to drive greater global growth."
Fourth-quarter Financial Highlights
The following table highlights net sales, net income and diluted earnings per share results for the quarter ended Dec. 31, 2006:
 
The primary components of the year-over-year increase in net sales for the fourth quarter are as follows:
                 
Favorable volume and mix  7.7 percentage points,
                 
Favorable pricing in the U.S.  1.0 percentage point, and
                 
Favorable foreign currency translation  0.5 percentage point.
2
A schedule detailing sales by product line for the fourth quarter and full year of 2006 and 2005 is attached to this press release.
Significant Events in the Fourth Quarter
Completed the acquisition of BresaGen Limited, an Australia-based biotechnology company, providing Hospira's biogenerics program with expertise and core competencies in protein and peptide manufacturing and cell development.
                 
Established an alliance with Germany-based STADA Arzneimittel AG and STADA-initiated BIOCEUTICALS Arzneimittel AG for the development, manufacture and distribution of a biosimilar version of the biopharmaceutical erythropoietin, positioning Hospira to participate in the early stages of the large, emerging biogenerics market.
                 
Launched the generic anti-nausea drug ondansetron in vial format immediately following the patent expiration of the branded version in late 2006. The company subsequently launched the generic in two additional delivery formats, including its new, proprietary iSecure prefilled disposable syringe.
                 
Introduced the Symbiq infusion system, an advanced medication management system that combines ease of use, reliability and next-generation technology.
                 
Expanded Hospira's board to nine directors, eight of whom are independent, with the election of Roger W. Hale, retired chairman and chief executive officer of LG&E Energy Corporation.
                 
3
Additional
Fourth-quarter Information
In conjunction with the previous table, the following summarizes the financial results for the quarter ended Dec. 31, 2006:
 
Results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include the effects of non-recurring transition expenses, costs related to the company's manufacturing optimization initiatives, the write-off of in-process research and development (R&D) relating to the BresaGen acquisition, and other items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
4
The improvement in adjusted* gross margin was due in part to improved volume and mix, and favorable pricing.
The increase in adjusted* R&D expense in part reflects a $21.7 million upfront payment to STADA for a biogenerics R&D collaboration.
The increase in adjusted* Selling, General and Administrative (S,G&A) expense was driven mainly by the inclusion of stock option expense in 2006 and higher, ongoing, incremental costs associated with being a stand-alone public company, particularly related to operating the company's independent information technology system and its international business. These factors were partially offset by lower investment spending.
The increase in adjusted* operating margin was attributable to the increase in adjusted* gross margin, which more than offset the higher R&D and S,G&A expense.
5
HOSPIRA REPORTS FOURTH-QUARTER AND FULL-YEAR 2006 RESULTS
Full-year 2006 Results
The following table highlights net sales, net income and diluted earnings per share results for the full year ended Dec. 31, 2006:
 
Net sales for the year were favorably affected by foreign currency translation of $8.2 million. Excluding the benefit from foreign currency translation, net sales increased 2.0 percent over 2005. Core net sales* grew 5.4 percent in 2006.
Both the GAAP and adjusted* earnings per share in 2006 include $0.17 of stock option expense.
Cash Flow
Cash flow from operations for 2006 was $424.2 million, down from $571.1 million in 2005. The decrease in cash flow relates primarily to higher inventory levels as the company built safety stocks to support its manufacturing optimization initiatives.
6
Capital expenditures were $235.0 million for 2006, compared with $256.1 million in 2005. The decline in spending to build out the company's independent infrastructure more than offset the capital spending related to its manufacturing optimization initiatives.
2007 Projections
Hospira projects that net sales for the 2007 year will be in the $3.40 billion to $3.48 billion range. Net sales excluding Mayne Pharma sales are projected to grow between 3 and 5 percent.
Adjusted* diluted earnings per share for 2007 are projected to be in the range of $2.11 to $2.16. The adjusted* earnings-per-share projection excludes:
a projected $35 million to $45 million of pre-tax expense relating to the company's previously announced manufacturing optimization initiatives;
                 
a projected $80 million to $90 million of pre-tax expense relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma;
                 
purchase accounting charges resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition; and
                 
amortization of intangibles related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition.
                 
7
The projected purchase accounting charges and amortization of intangibles will be determined based upon valuation of the assets and liabilities of Mayne Pharma, currently in process. The company will project earnings per share in accordance with GAAP when this valuation is completed.
The company projects that cash flow from operations in 2007 will be in the $500 million to $550 million range, with capital expenditures estimated in the $230 million to $260 million range. The company expects depreciation and amortization, excluding amortization related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, to range between $185 million and $195 million.
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules attached to this release. For more information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, please see Hospira's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
8
Webcast
A conference call for investors and media will be held at 8 a.m. Central Time on Wednesday, Feb. 28, 2007. A live webcast of the conference call will be available at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper computer setup for receiving the webcast. A replay will be available on the Hospira Web site for 30 days following the call.
About Hospira
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness
 by developing, manufacturing and marketing products that help improve the productivity, safety and efficacy of patient care. In February 2007,
Hospira
acquired Mayne Pharma Limited to become the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals. With 70 years of service to the hospital industry, Hospira's portfolio includes one of the industry's broadest lines of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, which help address the high cost of proprietary pharmaceuticals; and integrated solutions for medication management and infusion therapy. Headquartered north of Chicago in Lake Forest, Ill., Hospira has approximately 15,000 employees and 18 manufacturing facilities worldwide. Hospira's news releases and other information can be found at www.hospira.com.
9
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the financial impact of the acquisition of Mayne Pharma and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.
Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2005, and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2006, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference.
Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
A  Includes costs of $14,009 related to the announced closures of the Donegal, Ireland; Ashland, OH; Montreal, Canada; and North Chicago, IL facilities as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; a reduction of the obligation associated with the sale of the Salt Lake City, UT manufacturing plant to ICU Medical ($5,725); non-recurring transition costs of $130; and Mayne Pharma integration costs of $114.
B  Non-recurring transition costs.
C  Acquired in-process research and development related to the acquisition of BresaGen.
D  Includes integration charges of $1,820 related to the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, integration charges of $95 related to the acquisition of BresaGen, and non-recurring transition costs of $3,533.
E  Includes the impact of increasing the overall effective tax rate from 25.5% to 26.0%.
F  Includes impairment of $13,074 related to the Ashland, OH and Montreal, Canada manufacturing facilities; $6,338 related to the Donegal, Ireland manufacturing plant closure; non-recurring transition costs of $5,519; and costs related to the sale of the Salt Lake City, UT facility to ICU Medical of $350.
G  Includes the impact of decreasing the overall effective tax rate from 25.5% to 24.0%, and ($361) tax impact of earnings repatriation related to The American Jobs Creation Act.
 
 
 
A  Includes costs of $64,251 related to the announced closures of the Donegal, Ireland; Ashland, OH; Montreal, Canada; and North Chicago, IL facilities as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; a reduction of the obligation
associated with the sale of the Salt Lake City, UT manufacturing plant to ICU Medical ($6,825); a gain on the sale of the Donegal, Ireland facility ($7,851); integration costs associated with the acquisition of Mayne Pharma of$114;
and non-recurring transition costs of $4,536.
B  Non-recurring transition costs.
C  Acquired in-process research and development related to the acquisition of BresaGen.
D  Includes integration charges of $1,820 related to the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, integration charges of $95 related to the acquisition of BresaGen, and non-recurring transition costs of $26,677.
E  Includes an impairment charge of $2,429 and other charges of $13,754 related to the sale of the Salt Lake City, UT manufacturing plant to ICU Medical; $8,616 related to the closure of the Donegal, Ireland facility
as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; impairment charges of $13,074 related to the Montreal, Canada and Ashland, Ohio manufacturing facilities; and non-recurring transition costs of $10,849.
F  Includes $9,139 tax impact of earnings repatriation related to The American Jobs Creations Act.
 
 
 
Had the Company recorded stock option expense during 2005, adjusted diluted EPS would have increased 48.3 percent over the quarter ended December 31, 2005, and increased 7.2 percent for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005.  A reconciliation follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


