FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20080228081226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 28, 2008, we issued a press release announcing our 2007 fourth quarter and full-year results of operations.  Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Item 2.02, including the press release incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of our results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, statements regarding the financial impact of the acquisition of Mayne Pharma Limited ("Mayne Pharma") and other statements regarding our goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the Quarters ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
We present "non-GAAP financial measures" in the press release, including:
 
     
adjusted cost of products sold;
     
adjusted gross profit;
     
adjusted research and development expense;
     
adjusted selling, general and administrative expense;
     
adjusted income from operations;
     
adjusted interest expense;
     
adjusted other income (net);
     
adjusted income tax expense;
     
adjusted net income;
     
adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share; and
     
statistics using one or more of such adjusted measures.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items from the most comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States ("GAAP").  Each of these measures is presented together with the most comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP.  The excluded items are:
 
Manufacturing Optimization. 
These charges and expenses relate to the sale of our Salt Lake City, Utah manufacturing facility and the closure, or pending closures, of our Ashland, Ohio; Donegal, Ireland; and Montreal, Canada facilities and our departure from the North Chicago, Illinois manufacturing facility, which were announced in 2005 and 2006.   These charges and expenses include restructuring charges and expenses relating to the relocation of production from the affected facilities to other facilities.  Partially offsetting these charges and expenses are gains on the sale of the Donegal and Montreal facilities, and reductions of the obligations to the purchaser of the Salt Lake City facility recorded in subsequent periods.
 
All of these facilities were transferred to us in connection with our 2004 spin-off from Abbott Laboratories, and our management determined that these facilities would not be used in our operations in future periods to reduce our future ongoing operating costs and improve the efficiency of our manufacturing operations. Accordingly, we do not believe that the charges and expenses relating to the closure or disposal of these facilities, and the transfer of production to other facilities, are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business performance and normal operations.  We expect to incur expenses for these initiatives through 2009.  As the product relocation expenses and
 
certain restructuring charges are incurred in cash, excluding these items has the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures.
 
We incurred these charges and expenses, net of the gains and reductions of obligations described above, on a pre-tax basis in the amount of $4.1 million and $8.3 million in the three months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 and in the amount of $36.0 million and $49.6 million in the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, which are recorded in cost of products sold.
 
Purchase Accounting Charges.
   On February 2, 2007, we acquired Mayne Pharma Limited.  For the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, we recorded a $53.1 million non-cash inventories step-up charge in cost of products sold.  During the three months ended March 31, 2007, we also incurred a non-cash charge of $84.8 million of acquired in-process research and development.  During the three months ended December 31, 2007 we purchased certain clinical studies related to a compound that will be used to file for expanded medical indications. The cost for these clinical studies was $3.2 million and was recorded as acquired in-process research and development as the studies have no alternative future uses. During the three months ended December 31, 2006, we acquired BresaGen Limited. In connection with this acquisition, we incurred a $10.0 million non-cash charge relating to the write-off of acquired in-process research and development. As these types of charges are incurred in connection with, and in the period of, the completion of acquisitions, and the amount of these charges depends upon the allocation of the purchase price in accordance with applicable accounting rules, the timing and amount of these charges are unpredictable.  These charges have materially affected our reported financial results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, but are not necessarily reflective of our ongoing business performance.  Exclusion of these charges from the adjusted financial measures results in economic costs to us not being reflected in our adjusted net income and earnings per share.
 
Acquisition and Integration-Related Expenses.  
During the three months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 we incurred $12.3 million and $1.9 million, respectively, of expenses relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma into our operations.  During the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 we incurred $44.9 million and $1.9 million, respectively of expenses relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma into our operations. These are recorded as cost of products sold, research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense as detailed in the schedules to the press release.  During the three months ended March 31, 2007, we also incurred $7.9 million of other acquisition-related charges, including foreign exchange losses relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition (recorded in other income, net) and fees incurred in connection with the bridge loan to finance the acquisition (recorded in interest expense).  During the three months ended December 31, 2007, we received a refund of $1.4 million for fees incurred in connection with the bridge loan to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition (recorded as an offset to interest expense). During the two-year period after the closing of the acquisition, we estimate that we will incur approximately $60 million to $75 million of aggregate cash expenses related to the integration and other acquisition-related expenses.  We do not believe that these expenses are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business operations, as they were necessitated by a significant acquisition and will be incurred over a finite period.  Excluding these expenses will have the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures.
 
Amortization of Mayne Pharma Intangible Assets. 
Based on our purchase price allocation relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, we recorded $518.2 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet, which will be amortized over their useful lives, resulting in significant non-cash expenses.During the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2007, we recorded $12.5 million and $47.5 million, respectively, of amortization expense resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition in cost of products sold.
 
 
The amount of amortization expense can vary significantly among companies in our industry depending on the frequency, size and nature of acquisitions. While recording amortization is intended to represent the decrease in value of these intangible assets over time, the amount of recorded amortization may not necessarily represent our operating performance during the periods recorded because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating the fair value and useful lives of intangible assets at the time of the acquisition.  In order to assist comparability to our prior results and to the results of other companies in our industry with different acquisition histories, we have excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets in connection with the Mayne Pharma acquisition from our adjusted financial measures.  We have not previously excluded amortization expense in calculating our adjusted measures.  Prior to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, amortization has not been material to prior periods.  Exclusion of amortization relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition effectively results in the recording of acquired intangible assets without recording any expense relating to the use of these assets in our business.
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Facility Closure Costs. 
In the three months ended December 31, 2007, as a result of changes in sales projections, management made a decision to limit future research and development investments related to a previous acquisition of brain-function monitoring devices. As a result of this decision and future projections, during the three months ended December 31, 2007, we recorded an impairment charge of $7.5 million, which is reported in cost of products sold, and expect to record certain closure costs in 2008. Management makes strategic decisions on the allocation of resources that may impair the carrying value of long-lived assets. We believe that this charge is not necessarily indicative of our ongoing normal operations as such decisions and charges are infrequent and affect the comparability of our results. Excluding this item has the effect of excluding a non-cash charge from the adjusted financial measures.
 
Non-Recurring Transition Expenses. 
These expenses related to our transition to an independent public company as a result of our 2004 spin-off from Abbott.  We finished incurring these expenses in 2006.  These expenses primarily were for establishing new facilities, building out independent information systems, and product re-registration and re-labeling. We believe that these expenses were not necessarily indicative of our ongoing business performance as these expenses were necessitated by our spin-off. Excluding these expenses had the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures in periods through 2006.  On a pre-tax basis, we incurred $4.2 million and $35.0 million of these expenses in the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2006, respectively.  We incurred none of these expenses in 2007.
 
The schedules included in the press release that reconcile the adjusted financial measures to the financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP indicate the amount of such net expenses excluded from cost of products sold, research and development expense, selling, general and administrative expense, interest expense and other income, net to arrive at the corresponding adjusted financial measure.
 
Adjustments have been made to income tax expense in the appropriate period to take into account any tax effect of each excluded item.
 
All adjusted measures are reconciled to the most comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP in the press release.  We believe that presenting measures excluding the items described above, along with measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, provide investors with more information to assess our operating performance and prospects.  We also believe that excluding these items assists comparability with past performance.  Our management uses these adjusted measures as supplemental measures in assessing its own performancefor example, these measures are used in establishing our annual and long-term operating plans, presented to our board of directors in its review of our financial performance and considered in establishing targets under employee incentive plans. Since these measures allow investors to assess our performance on a similar basis as our management assesses our performance, we believe that investors have more information to assess the performance of management in executing its goals and strategies.
 
Non-GAAP financial measures are not presented in accordance with a body of comprehensive accounting principles and should not be considered a substitute for any GAAP measure.  The measures we use result largely from our management's determination as to whether the facts and circumstances surrounding certain transactions and events are indicative of the ordinary course of the ongoing operation of our business.  As a result, non-GAAP financial measures as presented by us may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
Our management uses non-GAAP financial measures as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Accordingly, these measures should be considered together with the corresponding financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.  In addition, our management reviews, and encourages investors to review, our balance sheets and statements of cash flows in order to make a complete evaluation and assessment of our financial performance.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)      Exhibits.
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
Immediate Release
 
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS FOURTH-QUARTER AND FULL-YEAR 2007 RESULTS
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Feb. 28, 2008  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a leading global
specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery
company, today reported results for the fourth quarter and full year ended Dec. 31, 2007.
 
Fourth Quarter:
 
                 
Net sales increased 33.9 percent to $946.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2007, compared to $706.5 million in the fourth quarter last year. Net sales excluding Mayne Pharma sales grew 8.4 percent.
 
                 
Adjusted* fourth-quarter 2007 diluted earnings per share were $0.63 versus $0.43 in 2006. GAAP fourth-quarter 2007 diluted earnings per share were $0.47 versus $0.30 for the same period last year.
 
Full Year:
 
                 
Net sales increased 27.8 percent to $3.44 billion versus $2.69 billion in 2006. Net sales excluding Mayne Pharma sales grew 4.1 percent.
 
                 
Adjusted* full-year 2007 diluted earnings per share were $2.19 versus $1.94 last year. GAAP full-year 2007 diluted earnings per share were $0.85 versus $1.48 in 2006.
 
"In 2007, Hospira delivered another strong year of revenue and profit growth, and we are energized as we begin 2008," said Christopher B. Begley, chairman and chief executive officer. "We are advancing our global performance and long-term goals with an increased focus on innovating our products and business to meet healthcare needs worldwide."
 
 
 
Significant Events in 2007
 
                 
Completed the Mayne Pharma acquisition and made significant progress integrating the two organizations. Hospira attained its acquisition-related operational and financial milestones, including reducing its acquisition-related debt by $400 million, primarily funded by the $551 million in cash flow generated from operations in 2007.
 
                 
Launched four new generic injectables in selected countries from Hospira's research and development (R&D) pipeline, and introduced 22 generic compounds already in the company's portfolio into additional countries around the world.
 
                 
Received approval from the European Commission to market Hospira's first biosimilar, Retacrit (epoetin zeta), in Europe for the treatment of anemia associated with chronic renal failure and chemotherapy.
 
                 
Introduced Hospira MedNet, a scalable and upgradeable patient safety platform, in Australia, its first market outside North America.
 
                 
Broadened the U.S. launch, late in the year, of the Symbiq infusion system
, an advanced medication management system that combines ease of use, reliability and next-generation technology
.
Fourth-Quarter Financial Highlights
 
The following table highlights net sales, net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) results for the quarter ended Dec. 31:
 
 
The primary components of the year-over-year increase in net sales for the fourth quarter are as follows:
 
                 
Mayne Pharma acquisition  25.5 percentage points;
                 
Favorable volume/mix in the legacy Hospira business  6.1 percentage points;
                 
Favorable foreign currency translation  1.7 percentage points; and
                 
Favorable pricing in the U.S.  0.4 percentage point.
 
A schedule detailing net sales by product line for the three- and 12-month periods ended Dec. 31, 2007 and 2006, is attached to this press release.
 
 
In conjunction with the previous table, the following summarizes selected financial results for the fourth quarter of 2007 compared to the same period in 2006:
 
 
Results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
 
The year-over-year improvementin adjusted* gross profit as a percentage of net sales, or adjusted* gross margin, was primarily driven by a better sales mix of Hospira legacy products.
 
The decrease in adjusted* R&D expense was due to the inclusion of a $21.7 million upfront payment in the fourth quarter of 2006 to STADA Arzneimittel AG for a biogenerics R&D collaboration, which was partially offset by the inclusion of Mayne Pharma's R&D expense in 2007.
 
 
The inclusion of the Mayne Pharma results accounted for a portion of the increase in adjusted* Selling, General and Administrative (S,G&A) expense. In addition, the timing of expenses and increased selling expenses contributed to the adjusted* S,G&A results.
 
The increase in adjusted* income from operations as a percentage of net sales, or adjusted* operating margin, was driven by the higher adjusted* gross margin and reduced adjusted* R&D spending as a percentage of net sales. The increase was partially offset by higher adjusted* S,G&A results as a percentage of net sales.
 
Full-year 2007 Financial Highlights
 
The following table highlights net sales, net income and diluted earnings per share results for the full year ended Dec. 31:
 
 
Results under GAAP include items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
 
Cash Flow
 
Cash flow from operations for the full-year 2007 was $551.1 million, up from $424.2 million in 2006.
 
Capital expenditures were $210.5 million for the full-year 2007, compared to $235.0 million for the same period in 2006. The decline is due to lower expenditures in 2007 related to the company's manufacturing optimization initiatives and to information technology requirements as the company completed the build-out of its independent system in 2006.
 
2008 Projections
 
Hospira expects net sales growth for 2008 to be approximately 6 to 8 percent.
 
The company projects that adjusted* diluted earnings per share for 2008 will be in the range of $2.45 to $2.55. The reconciliation between the projected adjusted* diluted earnings per share and GAAP diluted earnings per share follows:
 
 
The company projects that cash flow from operations in 2008 will be in the $575 million to $625 million range. The company also expects that depreciation and amortization, excluding amortization of intangibles related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, will be between $185 million and $195 million. Capital expenditures are projected to be between $190 million and $210 million.
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules attached to this release. For more information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, please see Hospira's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
Webcast
 
Hospira will hold a conference call for investors and media at 8 a.m. Central Time on Thursday, Feb. 28, 2008. A live webcast of the conference call will be available at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper computer setup for receiving the webcast. A replay will be available on the Hospira Web site for 30 days following the call.
 
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness. As the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals, Hospira offers one of the broadest portfolios of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management solutions. Through its products, Hospira helps improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has more than 14,000 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, statements regarding the financial impact of the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.
Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is incorporated by reference.
Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  Includes intangible assets amortization of $12,515 related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition; charges of $4,137 related to the planned closures of the Donegal, Ireland; Ashland, OH; Montreal, Canada; and North Chicago, IL facilities as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; Mayne Pharma integration charges of $927; and $7,508 related to the impairment of the intangible asset for brain-function monitoring devices.
B  Acquisition integration charges.
C  Acquired in-process research and development related to a product acquisition.
D  Other acquisition-related (charge) refund: refund of bridge loan fees incurred as a result of the Mayne Pharma acquisition expensed upon refinancing of loan during the first quarter.
E  Reflects the tax effect of the above adjustments.
F  Includes charges of $14,009 related to the planned closures of the Donegal, Ireland; Ashland, OH; Montreal, Canada; and North Chicago, IL facilities as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; a reduction of the obligation associated with the sale of the Salt Lake City, UT manufacturing plant to ICU Medical ($5,725); non-recurring transition charges of $130 as a result of the spin-off from Abbott Laboratories; and Mayne Pharma integration charges of $114.
G  Non-recurring transition charges as a result of the spin-off from Abbott Laboratories, integration and other acquisition-related charges.
H  Acquired in-process research and development related to the acquisition of BresaGen.
 
nm = Percent change is not meaningful.
 
 
 
A  Includes inventories step-up charge of $53,113 and intangible assets amortization of $47,455 related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition; charges of $37,571 related to the planned closures of the Donegal, Ireland; Ashland, OH; Montreal, Canada; and North Chicago, IL facilities as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; a reduction of the obligation associated with the 2005 sale of the Salt Lake City, UT manufacturing plant to ICU Medical ($1,579); Mayne Pharma integration charges of $7,100; and $7,508 related to the impairment of the intangible asset for brain-function monitoring devices.
B  Acquisition integration charges.
C  Acquired in-process research and development related to the acquisition of Mayne Pharma of $84,800 and $3,187 related to a product acquisition.
D  Other acquisition-related charge: $2,265 of bridge loan fees incurred as a result of the Mayne Pharma acquisition expensed upon refinancing of loan during the first quarter net of a refund of $1,425 received in the fourth quarter.
E  Other acquisition-related charge: foreign exchange losses related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition.
F  Reflects the tax effect of the above adjustments, except for the non-tax deductible write-off of acquired in-process research and development related to certain acquisitions.
G  Includes charges of $64,251 related to the planned closures of the Donegal, Ireland; Ashland, OH; Montreal, Canada; and North Chicago, IL facilities as part of Hospira's manufacturing optimization initiatives; a reduction of the obligation associated with the sale of the Salt Lake City, UT manufacturing plant to ICU Medical ($6,825); a gain on the sale of the Donegal, Ireland facility ($7,851); Mayne Pharma integration charges of $114; and non-recurring transition charges of $4,536 as a result of the spin-off from Abbott Laboratories.
H  Non-recurring transition charges as a result of the spin-off from Abbott Laboratories, integration and other acquisition-related charges.
I   Acquired in-process research and development related to the acquisition of BresaGen.
 
nm = Percent change is not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
 
nm = Percent change is not meaningful.


