FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20080514164638.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
On May 13, 2008, Barbara L. Bowles was elected to Hospira's board of directors as a Class II director, with a term expiring at the 2009 annual meeting of shareholders.  Ms. Bowles will serve on the board's audit committee.  The press release announcing the election of Ms. Bowles to the board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
 
 
On May 13, 2008, Hospira held its annual meeting of shareholders.  Irving W. Bailey, II, Ronald A. Matricaria, and Jacque J. Sokolov, M.D. were elected to Hospira's board of directors.   The appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Hospira's auditors for 2008 was ratified.  The voting results on each proposal are as follows:
 
 
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned  hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., May 13, 2008  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company, announced today that Barbara L. Bowles, CFA, has been elected to the company's board of directors. Bowles brings strong investment management and finance expertise from leadership positions held at major multinational consumer goods companies and equity investment advisory firms. The addition of Bowles expands Hospira's board to nine directors, of whom eight are independent.
 
"Barbara will be an extraordinary addition to the Hospira board," said Christopher B. Begley, chairman and chief executive officer. "Her broad and deep financial knowledge and corporate policy experience will enhance our current board membership and will be extremely helpful in furthering Hospira's longer-term growth goals."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hospira, Inc.
275 North Field Drive
Lake Forest, IL  60045
www.hospira.com
 
 
Bowles, 60, recently retired as vice chair of Profit Investment Management, an investment management firm.  Previously, she served as chairman, chief executive officer and chief investment officer of The Kenwood Group, Inc.  an equity investment advisory corporation that she founded in 1989  which was acquired by Profit in January 2006.  From 1984 to 1989 she served as corporate vice president of Kraft, Inc., and headed its investor relations department.  Earlier in her career, Bowles held equity analyst and trust investment management positions at First National Bank of Chicago (now Chase Bank).
 
Bowles serves as a director of Black & Decker Corporation, Wisconsin Energy Corporation, Children's Memorial Hospital (Chicago), the Chicago Urban League and Hyde Park Bank.  She also is a trustee of Fisk University and the Museum of Science and Industry (Chicago), and serves on the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business Advisory Council.  In 2003, she was honored with the "Distinguished Alumni Award" from the African American MBA Association of the University of Chicago.
 
Bowles is currently pursuing her long-time goal of establishing and funding the Landers-Bowles Family Foundation, which will be primarily focused on charity related to education.
 
A native of Nashville, Tenn., Bowles holds a master's of business administration degree in finance from the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, and a bachelor's degree in mathematics, with honors, from Fisk University.  She has been a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) since 1977.
 
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness. As the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals, Hospira offers one of the broadest portfolios of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management solutions. Through its products, Hospira helps improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has more than 14,000 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
###
 
 
3


