FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20090729074319.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
                                   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
                                   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 29, 2009, we issued a press release announcing our 2009 second quarter results of operations. Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Immediate Release
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS SECOND-QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., July 29, 2009  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a leading global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company, today reported results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009. Net sales for the quarter were $957 million, and adjusted* diluted earnings per share were $0.73. (Adjusted* measures exclude certain specified items as described later in this press release and the attached schedules.)
 
"Hospira delivered a very good second quarter, marked by strong sales and earnings, and significant progress toward our Project Fuel initiatives," said Christopher B. Begley, chairman and chief executive officer. "Based on our results for the first half of the year and our expectations for the remainder of 2009, we have increased our full-year adjusted earnings guidance. We remain committed to improving shareholder value through sustainable top- and bottom-line growth."
 
Hospira, Inc.
275 North Field Drive
Lake Forest, IL 60045
www.hospira.com
Second-Quarter 2009 Results
 
The following table highlights selected financial results for the second quarter of 2009 compared to the same period in 2008:
 
 
Results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include items
detailed in the schedules attached to this press release, including
impairment and other asset charges of $0.33 to second-quarter 2009 GAAP diluted earnings per share related to
the company's
Project Fuel initiatives.
 
Net sales increased 6.1 percent to $957 million in the second quarter of 2009, compared to $902 million in the second quarter of 2008. Driving the growth were the results for Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals
(SIP) and Other Pharma. SIP results benefited in part from a favorable comparison to the second quarter of 2008, which was impacted by lower-than-average wholesaler buying patterns
. Partially offsetting the favorable SIP and Other Pharma results was a decline in Medication Management Systems (MMS), due to a difficult comparison to the second quarter of 2008, in which MMS generated record quarterly results.
Adjusted* income from operations increased 16.1 percent to $177 million in the second quarter of 2009, compared to $152 million in the second quarter of 2008. Driving the majority of the increase w
ere
higher sales volumes; improvements in
selling, general and administrative (S
G&A
) expenses
as a result of Project Fuel initiatives; and lower
research and development (
R&D
)
spend
ing
related to the timing of expenditures. Partially offsetting these factors was the impact of foreign exchange
.
 
Cash Flow
 
Cash
f
low from
o
perations for the first six months of 2009 was $236 million, compared to the $183 million generated for the same period in 2008.
 
Capital expenditures decreased to $78 million for the first six months of 2009, compared to $87 million for the same period in 2008, due to the continued impact of the company's tighter capital-spending controls implemented in the second half of 2008.
 
2009 Projections
 
Hospira continues to expect net sales for the year to increase approximately 4 to 6 percent on a constant-currency basis. Including the impact of foreign exchange, the company expects net sales to be flat to slightly up.
The company now expects full-year 2009 adjusted* diluted earnings per share to range between $2.70 and $2.75 per share. The reconciliation between the projected 2009 adjusted* diluted earnings per share and GAAP diluted earnings per share follows:
 
 
The company continues to project that cash flow from operations in 2009 will be in the $565 million to $615 million range. Depreciation and amortization is expected to be between $210 million and $220 million. Capital expenditures are projected to be between $155 million and $175 million.
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Adjusted Financial Measures
 
Non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules attached to this release.
Webcast
 
Hospira will hold a conference call for investors and media at 8 a.m. Central time on Wednesday, July 29, 2009. A live webcast of the conference call will be available
on Hospira's Web site
at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper computer setup for receiving the webcast. A replay will be available on the Hospira Web site for 30 days following the call.
 
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness. As the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals, Hospira offers one of the broadest portfolios of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management solutions. Through its products, Hospira helps improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has approximately 14,000 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond Hospira's control, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K
and subsequent Form 10-Qs
, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
###
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
Statistics (as a % of net sales, except for income tax rate):
 
 
 
(1)
    
Adjusted financial measures exclude certain specified items as described and reconciled to comparable GAAP financial measures in the Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures schedule.
(2)
    
Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold. Adjusted gross profit excludes certain specified items, as indicated in the previous footnote.
 
 
Statistics (as a % of net sales, except for income tax rate):
 
 
(1)
    
Adjusted financial measures exclude certain specified items as described and reconciled to comparable GAAP financial measures in the Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures schedule.
(2)
    
Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold. Adjusted gross profit excludes certain specified items, as indicated in the previous footnote.
 
 
The Non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (including adjusted gross profit, adjusted income from operations, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted Earnings Per Share) adjust for certain specified items. Management believes that Non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a more complete analysis and greater transparency into Hospira's ongoing results of operations, particularly in comparing underlying results from period to period. Management uses these Non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance. All Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Hospira's Non-GAAP financial measures may be different from Non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.
 
Three months ended June 30, 2009 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
GAAP results for the three months ended June 30, 2009 include:
 
Three months ended June 30, 2008 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
GAAP results for the three months ended June 30, 2008 include:
 
(1) Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold.
 
The Non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (including adjusted gross profit, adjusted income from operations, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted Earnings Per Share) adjust for certain specified items. Management believes that Non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a more complete analysis and greater transparency into Hospira's ongoing results of operations, particularly in comparing underlying results from period to period. Management uses these Non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance. All Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Hospira's Non-GAAP financial measures may be different from Non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.
 
Six months ended June 30, 2009 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
GAAP results for the six months ended June 30, 2009 include:
 
Six months ended June 30, 2008 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
GAAP results for the six months ended June 30, 2008 include:
 
(1) Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold.
 
 
(1) The Non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release include comparisons at constant currency rates (reflecting comparative local currency balances at prior period foreign exchange rates), which we define as current period net sales excluding the impact of the change in foreign exchange rates less prior period reported net sales divided by prior period reported net sales. This financial measure provides information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates have not changed between the prior and the current period. Management believes the use of this financial measure aids in the understanding of our change in net sales without the impact of foreign currency. All Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 


