FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20091027075533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02               Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 27, 2009, Hospira, Inc. issued a press release announcing its 2009 third quarter results of operations.  Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned  hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Oct. 27, 2009  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a leading global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company, today reported results for the third quarter ended Sept. 30, 2009. Net sales for the quarter were $1.0 billion, and adjusted* diluted earnings per share were $0.90. (Adjusted* measures exclude certain specified items as described later in this press release and the attached schedules.)
 
"Hospira delivered strong results in the third quarter, aided by the launch of the generic oncolytic oxaliplatin and additional progress toward our Project Fuel initiatives," said Christopher B. Begley, chairman and chief executive officer. "We continued to position Hospira for future success in this milestone quarter, during which we surpassed the billion dollar revenue mark for the first time and generated strong double-digit earnings per share growth.  We remain confident in our projections for full-year sales and are increasing our earnings per share guidance."
 
 
Third-Quarter 2009 Results
The following table highlights selected financial results for the third quarter of 2009 compared to the same period in 2008:
 
 
Results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include items
detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
 
Net sales increased 8.9 percent to $1.0 billion in the third quarter of 2009, compared to $926 million in the third quarter of 2008.  The growth was driven by an increase in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals, primarily a result of the third-quarter launch of oxaliplatin in solution form in the United States.
 
Adjusted* income from operations increased 28.3 percent to $207 million in the third quarter of 2009, compared to $162 million in the third quarter of 2008. Driving the majority of the increase were higher sales volumes and increased manufacturing efficiency. Partially offsetting these factors was the impact of certain product recall-related costs as well as the impact of foreign exchange.
Cash Flow
Cash flow from operations for the first nine months of 2009 was $541 million, compared to $329 million generated for the same period in 2008.
 
Capital expenditures decreased to $119 million for the first nine months of 2009, compared to $127 million for the same period in 2008, due to the impact of the company's tighter capital-spending controls implemented in the second half of 2008.
 
2009 Projections
Hospira continues to expect net sales for the year to increase approximately 5 to 7 percent on a constant-currency basis. Including the impact of foreign exchange, the company expects net sales to be slightly up.
 
During the third quarter, Hospira recognized an income tax benefit on the expiration of statutes of limitation on certain unrecognized tax benefits. The tax benefit was partially offset by the tax effect of the U.S. launch of oxaliplatin. Based on these factors, the company is adjusting the guidance for its 2009 effective tax rate to 20 to 21 percent from the prior guidance of 21 to 22 percent.
As a result, the company now expects full-year 2009 adjusted* diluted earnings per share to be between $2.85 and $2.90 per share. The reconciliation between the projected 2009 adjusted* diluted earnings per share and GAAP diluted earnings per share follows:
 
 
The company now projects that cash flow from operations in 2009 will be in the $700 million to $750 million range. Depreciation and amortization is now expected to be between $225 million and $235 million. Capital expenditures are projected to be between $155 million and $175 million.
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Adjusted Financial Measures
 
Non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules attached to this release.
Webcast
 
Hospira will hold a conference call for investors and media at 8 a.m. Central time on Tuesday, Oct. 27, 2009. A live webcast of the conference call will be available
on Hospira's Web site
at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper setup for receiving the webcast. A replay will be available on the Hospira Web site for 30 days following the call.
 
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness. As the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals, Hospira offers one of the broadest portfolios of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management solutions. Through its products, Hospira helps improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has approximately 14,000 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond Hospira's control, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K
and subsequent Form 10-Qs
, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
 
 
 
 
Statistics (as a % of net sales, except for income tax rate):
 
 
(1) Adjusted financial measures exclude certain specified items as described and reconciled to comparable GAAP financial measures in the Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures schedule.
(2) Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold. Adjusted gross profit excludes certain specified items, as indicated in the previous footnote.
 
 
 
Statistics (as a % of net sales, except for income tax rate):
 
 
(1) Adjusted financial measures exclude certain specified items as described and reconciled to comparable GAAP financial measures in the Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures schedule.
(2) Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold. Adjusted gross profit excludes certain specified items, as indicated in the previous footnote.
 
 
The Non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (including adjusted gross profit, adjusted income from operations, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted Earnings Per Share) adjust for certain specified items. Management believes that Non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a more complete analysis and greater transparency into Hospira's ongoing results of operations, particularly in comparing underlying results from period to period. Management uses these Non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance. All Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Hospira's Non-GAAP financial measures may be different from Non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.
 
Three months ended September 30, 2009 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
GAAP results for the three months ended September 30, 2009 include:
A  Project Fuel charges: $7.8 million reported in Cost of products sold, $10.5 million reported in Restructuring and impairment, $1.3 million reported in Research and development and $7.8 million reported in Selling, general and administrative. These charges relate to the Project Fuel initiatives and include costs for severance and other employee benefits, process optimization implementation, other asset charges, exit costs and charges associated with certain non-strategic businesses and underlying assets committed for disposal and the related inventory, property and equipment, allocated goodwill and intangible assets.
B  Facilities Optimization charges: $1.5 million reported in Cost of products sold and $3.3 million reported in Restructuring and impairment. These charges relate to facilities optimization from the closure or departure from certain manufacturing and research and development ("R&D") facilities and include costs for severance and other employee benefits, accelerated depreciation and relocation of production and R&D operations.
C  Amortization of Mayne Pharma Limited ("Mayne Pharma") intangible assets resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition is reported in Cost of products sold.
 
Three months ended September 30, 2008 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
GAAP results for the three months ended September 30, 2008 include:
A  Facilities Optimization charges: $3.7 million reported in Cost of products sold and $4.5 million reported in Restructuring and impairment. These charges relate to facilities optimization from the closure or departure from certain manufacturing and R&D facilities and include costs for severance and other employee benefits, accelerated depreciation and relocation of production and R&D operations.
B  Amortization of Mayne Pharma intangible assets is reported in Cost of products sold.
C  Integration-related charges: $2.8 million reported in Cost of products sold, $0.2 million reported in Research and development and $2.4 million reported in Selling, general and administrative. These charges relate to the integration of Mayne Pharma and other acquisitions into our operations and include costs for closure of facilities, termination of lease agreements, severance and other employee benefit costs.
 
(1) Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold.
 
 
The Non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (including adjusted gross profit, adjusted income from operations, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted Earnings Per Share) adjust for certain specified items. Management believes that Non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a more complete analysis and greater transparency into Hospira's ongoing results of operations, particularly in comparing underlying results from period to period. Management uses these Non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance. All Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Hospira's Non-GAAP financial measures may be different from Non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2009 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
GAAP results for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 include:
A  Project Fuel charges: $12.6 million reported in Cost of products sold, $67.9 million reported in Restructuring and impairment, $2.6 million reported in Research and development and $22.4 million reported in Selling, general and administrative. These charges relate to the Project Fuel initiatives and include costs for severance and other employee benefits, process optimization implementation, other asset charges, exit costs and charges associated with certain non-strategic businesses and underlying assets committed for disposal and the related inventory, property and equipment, allocated goodwill and intangible assets.
B  Facilities Optimization charges: $8.9 million reported in Cost of products sold and $11.2 million reported in Restructuring and impairment. These charges relate to facilities optimization from the closure or departure from certain manufacturing and research and development ("R&D") facilities and include costs for severance and other employee benefits, accelerated depreciation and relocation of production and R&D operations.
C  Amortization of Mayne Pharma Limited ("Mayne Pharma") intangible assets resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition is reported in Cost of products sold.
D  Impairment of marketable equity securities is reported in Other expense (income), net.
E  Resolution of IRS tax audit benefit of $91.9 million reported in Income tax expense (benefit). This discrete income tax benefit is related to the completion and effective settlement of Hospira's 2004 and 2005 U.S. tax return audits.
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2008 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
GAAP results for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 include:
A  Facilities Optimization charges: $11.5 million reported in Cost of products sold, $13.8 million reported in Restructuring and impairment and $0.6 million reported in Research and development. These charges relate to facilities optimization from the closure or departure from certain manufacturing and R&D facilities and include costs for severance and other employee benefits, accelerated depreciation and relocation of production and R&D operations.
B  Amortization of Mayne Pharma intangible assets is reported in Cost of products sold.
C  Integration-related charges: $5.8 million reported in Cost of products sold, $1.0 million reported in Research and development and $16.8 million reported in Selling, general and administrative. These charges relate to the integration of Mayne Pharma and other acquisitions into our operations and include costs for closure of facilities, termination of lease agreements, severance and other employee benefit costs.
 
(1) Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) The Non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release include comparisons at constant currency rates (reflecting comparative local currency balances at prior period foreign exchange rates), which we define as current period net sales excluding the impact of the change in foreign exchange rates less prior period reported net sales divided by prior period reported net sales. This financial measure provides information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates have not changed between the prior and the current period. Management believes the use of this financial measure aids in the understanding of our change in net sales without the impact of foreign currency. All Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 


