FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20090217085008.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
                                   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
                                   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 17, 2009, we issued a press release announcing our 2008 fourth quarter and full-year results of operations.  Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Item 2.02, including the press release incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K, and subsequent Forms 10-Q, which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
We present "non-GAAP financial measures" in the press release, including:
 
 
These non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items from the most comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States ("GAAP"). Each of these measures is presented together with the most comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. The excluded items are:
 
Facilities Optimization Charges. 
These charges and expenses relate to the sale, closure, or pending closures, of our Ashland, Ohio; Donegal, Ireland; Montreal, Canada; Morgan Hill, California; and Salt Lake City, Utah, facilities and our departure from the North Chicago, Illinois leased manufacturing facility, which were announced in 2005, 2006, and 2008. In addition, in 2007, as a result of changes in sales projections, management made a decision to limit, and transfer, R&D facility operations related to a non-strategic device product. These charges and expenses include restructuring charges and expenses relating to the relocation of production and R&D operations from the affected facilities to other facilities. Partially offsetting these charges and expenses is a gain of $2.5 million on the sale of the Montreal, Canada facility recorded in the three months ended September 30, 2008.
 
Management determined that these facilities would not be used in our operations in future periods to reduce our future ongoing operating costs and improve the efficiency of our manufacturing operations. Further, management makes strategic decisions on the allocation of resources to improve the efficiency of our R&D facility operations. We do not believe that the charges and expenses relating to the closure or disposal of these facilities, and the transfer of production and R&D operations to other facilities, are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business performance and normal operations. We expect to incur expenses for these initiatives through 2011. As the product relocation
 
expenses and certain restructuring charges are incurred in cash, excluding these items has the effect of excluding significant cash expenditures from the adjusted financial measures.
 
We incurred these charges and expenses, on a pre-tax basis in the amount of $9.5 million and $4.1 million in the three months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 and in the amount of $35.4 million and $36.0 million in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, which are recorded in cost of products sold and R&D as detailed in the schedules to the press release.
 
Purchase Accounting Charges.
  On February 2, 2007, we acquired Mayne Pharma Limited ("Mayne Pharma") and in 2008 we acquired a medical device technology developer. In connection with these acquisitions, for the years ended December 31, 2007, we recorded a $53.1 million non-cash inventories step-up charge in cost of products sold.  During the three months ended March 31, 2007, and the three months ended June 30, 2008, we also incurred non-cash charges of acquired in-process research and development of $84.8 million and $0.5 million, respectively.  During the three months ended December 31, 2007 we purchased certain clinical studies related to a compound that will be used to file for expanded medical indications. The cost for these clinical studies was $3.2 million and was recorded as acquired in-process research and development as the studies have no alternative future uses. As these types of charges are incurred in connection with, and in the period of, the completion of acquisitions, and the amount of these charges depends upon the allocation of the purchase price in accordance with applicable accounting rules, the timing and amount of these charges are unpredictable. These charges have materially affected our reported financial results, but are not necessarily reflective of our ongoing business performance. Exclusion of these charges from the adjusted financial measures results in economic costs to us not being reflected in our adjusted net income and earnings per share.
 
Acquisition and Integration-Related Expenses. 
During the three months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 we incurred $7.0 million and $12.2 million, respectively, of expenses relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma and other acquisitions into our operations. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 we incurred $30.6 million and $44.8 million, respectively, of expenses relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma and other acquisitions into our operations. These are recorded in cost of products sold, R&D and SG&A as detailed in the schedules to the press release. During the three months ended March 31, 2007, we also incurred $7.9 million of other acquisition-related charges, including foreign exchange losses relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition (recorded in other income, net) and fees incurred in connection with the bridge loan to finance the acquisition (recorded in interest expense). During the three months ended December 31, 2007, we received a refund of $1.4 million for fees incurred in connection with the bridge loan to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition (recorded as an offset to interest expense). During the two-year period after the closing of the Mayne Pharma acquisition, we incurred $70.9 million of aggregate cash expenses related to the integration and other acquisition-related expenses. We do not believe that these expenses are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business operations, as they were necessitated by acquisitions and will be incurred over a finite period. Exclusion of these charges from the adjusted financial measures results in economic costs to us not being reflected in our adjusted net income and earnings per share.
 
Amortization of Mayne Pharma Intangible Assets.
  Based on our purchase price allocation relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, we recorded $518.2 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet, which will be amortized over their estimated useful lives, resulting in significant non-cash expenses. During the three months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we recorded $16.0 million and $12.6 million, respectively, of amortization expense resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition in cost of products sold. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we recorded $62.8 million and $47.6 million, respectively, of amortization expense resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition in cost of products sold.
 
The amount of amortization expense can vary significantly among companies in our industry depending on the frequency, size and nature of acquisitions. While recording amortization is intended to represent the decrease in value of these intangible assets over time, the amount of recorded amortization may not necessarily represent our operating performance during the periods recorded because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating the fair value and useful lives of intangible assets at the time of the acquisition. In order to assist comparability to our prior results and to the results of other companies in our industry with different acquisition histories, we have excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets in connection with the Mayne Pharma acquisition from our adjusted financial measures. We have not excluded amortization expense in calculating our adjusted measures prior to the Mayne Pharma acquisition.  Prior to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, amortization has not been material to prior
 
 
periods. Exclusion of amortization relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition effectively results in the recording of acquired intangible assets without recording any expense relating to the use of these assets in our business.
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Facility Closure Costs. 
In the three months ended December 31, 2007, as a result of changes in sales projections, management made a decision to limit future research and development investments related to a previous acquisition of a non-strategic device product. As a result of this decision, during the three months ended December 31, 2007, we recorded an impairment charge of $7.5 million, which is reported in cost of products sold. Management makes strategic decisions on the allocation of resources that may impair the carrying value of long-lived assets. We believe that this charge is not necessarily indicative of our ongoing normal operations as such decisions and charges are infrequent and affect the comparability of our results. Excluding this item has the effect of excluding a non-cash charge from the adjusted financial measures.
 
Net Sales Comparisons at Constant Currency Rates
.
 
Our presentation of net sales by segment and product line includes comparisons at constant currency rates (reflecting comparative local currency balances and prior period foreign exchange rates), which we define as current period net sales excluding the impact of the change in foreign exchange rates less prior period reported net sales divided by prior period reported net sales. This measure provides information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates have not changed between the prior and the current period. We believe use of this measure aids in the understanding of our change in net sales without the impact of foreign currency.
 
The schedules included in the press release that reconcile the adjusted financial measures to the financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP indicate the amount of such net expenses excluded from cost of products sold, R&D, acquired in-process research and development, SG&A, interest expense and other expense (income), net to arrive at the corresponding adjusted financial measure.
 
Adjustments have been made to income tax expense in the appropriate period to take into account any tax effect of each excluded item.
 
All adjusted measures in the press release are reconciled to the most comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules. We believe that presenting measures excluding the items described above, along with measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, provide investors with more information to assess our operating performance and prospects. We also believe that excluding these items assists comparability with past performance. Our management uses these adjusted measures as supplemental measures in assessing its own performancefor example, these measures are used in establishing our annual and long-term operating plans, presented to our board of directors in its review of our financial performance and considered in establishing targets under employee incentive plans. Since these measures allow investors to assess our performance on a similar basis as our management assesses our performance, we believe that investors have more information to assess the performance of management in executing its goals and strategies.
 
Non-GAAP financial measures are not presented in accordance with a body of comprehensive accounting principles and should not be considered a substitute for any GAAP measure. The measures we use result largely from our management's determination as to whether the facts and circumstances surrounding certain transactions and events are indicative of the ordinary course of the ongoing operation of our business. As a result, non-GAAP financial measures as presented by us may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
Our management uses non-GAAP financial measures as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Accordingly, these measures should be considered together with the corresponding financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, our management reviews, and encourages investors to review, our balance sheets and statements of cash flows in order to make a complete evaluation and assessment of our financial performance.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)
                
Exhibits.
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS FOURTH-QUARTER AND FULL-YEAR 2008 RESULTS
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Feb. 17, 2009  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a leading global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company, today reported results for the fourth quarter and full year ended Dec. 31, 2008. For the fourth quarter of 2008, net sales were $914 million, and adjusted* diluted earnings per share were $0.78. For the full year of 2008, net sales were $3.6 billion, and adjusted* diluted earnings per share were $2.53. (Adjusted* measures exclude certain specified items as described later in this press release and the attached schedules.)
 
"Hospira delivered another positive year of performance in 2008, generating solid revenue and strong profit growth, further advancing key areas of our business and successfully completing the integration of the Mayne Pharma acquisition," said Christopher B. Begley, chairman and chief executive officer. "Looking forward, as a diversified healthcare company primarily serving the acute-care market, Hospira is well positioned in 2009. Hospira's underlying businesses remain solid, and we expect another year of growth guided by our focus on execution and operational optimization."
 
Fourth-Quarter 2008 Results
 
The following table
highlights selected financial results for the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the same period in 2007:
 
 
Results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
 
Net sales decreased 3.4 percent to $914 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to $946 million in the fourth quarter of 2007.  The decline was primarily driven by three factors: unfavorable foreign currency translation; unusually high U.S. wholesaler purchasing patterns for Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals in the fourth quarter of 2007; and decreased demand in Other Pharma from some contract manufacturing customers.
 
Medication Management Systems (MMS) reported solid sales growth based on continued demand for its newest general infusion system, Symbiq
.
 
Adjusted* operating income increased 22.5 percent to $188 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to $154 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. Contributing to the increase was favorable volume/mix, improved manufacturing efficiency and the impact of Selling, General & Administrative (SG&A) cost-containment measures.
 
Full-Year 2008 Results
 
The following table
highlights selected financial results for the full year 2008 compared to the same period in 2007:
 
 
Net sales increased 5.6 percent to $3.6 billion for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008, compared to $3.4 billion for the prior year. The increase was primarily a result of the impact of new group purchasing organization (GPO) awards; strong demand for the company's MMS product lines; and favorable foreign currency translation.
 
Adjusted* operating income increased 11.6 percent to $647 million for the full year of 2008, compared to $580 million for the full year of 2007. The increase is primarily a result of favorable volume/mix, improved manufacturing efficiencies and the impact of foreign exchange.
 
Cash Flow
 
Cash flow from operations for the full-year 2008 was $584 million, an increase compared to the $551 million generated in 2007.
 
Capital expenditures were $164 million for the full year, compared to $211 million in 2007. The decline is partly due to lower spending in 2008 than in 2007 related to the company's facilities optimization initiatives, as well as to capital-spending controls the company effected in the second half of 2008.
 
2009 Projections
 
Hospira expects net sales growth for full-year 2009 to be approximately 4 to 6 percent on a constant-currency basis. Including the impact of foreign exchange, the company expects net sales to be relatively flat. Adjusted* diluted earnings per share for 2009 are expected to be in the range of $2.62 to $2.72.
 
The reconciliation between the projected 2009 adjusted* diluted earnings per share and GAAP diluted earnings per share follows:
 
 
The company projects that cash flow from operations in 2009 will be in the $565 million to $615 million range. Depreciation and amortization is expected to be between $210 million and $220 million. Capital expenditures are projected to be
between $155 million and $175 million.
 
"Our 2009 guidance aligns with our core strategies to improve margins and cash flow and invest for growth," said Begley. "We have a robust global generic drug pipeline and attractive growth opportunities in generic injectables. With our expanded GPO contracts, we expect to attract additional customers to our broad portfolio of products. We also expect continued momentum with MMS as we advance our technologically enhanced offerings. Through our streamlined, focused management and optimization initiatives, we are well positioned to advance our growth opportunities and drive sustainable long-term growth."
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules attached to this release. For more information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, please see Hospira's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
Webcast
 
Hospira will hold a conference call for investors and media at 8 a.m. Central time on Tuesday, Feb. 17, 2009. A live webcast of the conference call will be available at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper computer setup for receiving the webcast. A replay will be available on the Hospira Web site for 30 days following the call.
 
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness
. As the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals, Hospira offers one of the broadest portfolios of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management solutions. Through its products, Hospira helps improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has approximately 14,000 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.
Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is incorporated by reference.
Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
 
Contacts:
 
 
Media
Tareta Adams
(224) 212-2535
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nm = Percent change is not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
nm = Percent change is not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
Specialty Injectables include generic injectables and proprietary specialty injectables. Other Pharmaceuticals include large volume IV solutions, nutritionals and contract manufacturing services (including former "Sales to Abbott"). Medication Management Systems include infusion pumps, related software, services and administration sets. Other Devices include gravity administration sets, critical care products, and other device products.
 
Net sales for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, include twelve and eleven months, respectively, of Mayne Pharma net sales.
 
 
 
 
 


