FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20090309142757.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
     
 
 
 
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
              
 
On March 3, 2009, Heino von Prondzynski was elected to Hospira's board of directors as a Class III director with a term expiring at the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders.  Mr. v. Prondzynski will serve on the board's compensation and science and technology committees. The press release announcing the election of Mr. v. Prondzynski to the board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
              
 
Exhibits
(d)
              
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
HOSPIRA EXPANDS BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., March 9, 2009  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a leading global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company, announced today that Heino von Prondzynski has been elected to the company's board of directors. Von Prondzynski brings strong executive management and diverse global experience from leadership positions held at multinational healthcare companies. The addition of von Prondzynski expands Hospira's board to 10 directors, of whom nine are independent.
 
"Heino has an impressive track record of achievement in the healthcare industry and significant experience in delivering global growth and expansion," said Christopher B. Begley, chairman and chief executive officer. "His interest in talent development and passion for driving product innovation also make him an excellent and complementary addition to the Hospira board."
Hospira, Inc.
275 North Field Drive
Lake Forest, IL 60045
www.hospira.com
59, served as chief executive officer of Roche Diagnostics and as a member of the executive committee of F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd. from early 2000 to 2005, retiring from Roche at the end of 2006. While at Roche, he brought Roche Diagnostics, which included diabetes, near- patient testing, centralized diagnostics and applied science to global market leadership and record industry-standard profitability ratios. He also drove significant growth through an expansion of the molecular diagnostics portfolio and entrance into the blood-screening market. From 1996 to 2000, von Prondzynski held several executive positions, including president of its vaccine business, at Chiron Corporation, a multinational firm that develops biopharmaceuticals, vaccines and blood-testing products. Earlier in his career, von Prondzynski held sales and marketing and general management positions at Bayer A.G.
Von Prondzynski,
 
ElectronicsN.V. (Royal Electronics Inc.), Qiagen N.V., BB Medtech A.G. and Epigenomics A.G.
Von Prondzynski is on the boards of
Koninklijke
Philips
Philips
 
Born in Germany, now living in Switzerland, von Prondzynski studied mathematics, geography and history at Westflische Wilhelms University of Mnster in Germany.
About Hospira
 
. As the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals, Hospira offers one of the broadest portfolios of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management solutions. Through its products, Hospira helps improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has more than 14,000 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness
 
 
###
 
3


