FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20090917075435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously announced, Hospira, Inc. (the "Company") is hosting an investor day on September 17, 2009 in Chicago.  The sessions will provide information about, among other things, the Company's financial progress and strategy.  Management will be updating the Company's fiscal 2009 guidance at the meeting, including its earnings-per-share guidance.  Copies of the presentation slides from the Company's Chief Financial Officer, which include the updated projections, are included as Exhibit 99.1.
 
A webcast of the meeting will begin at 8 a.m. Central time and may be accessed, along with the slide presentations, on the Investor Relations section of Hospira's Web site at www.hospirainvestor.com.  The presentations are expected to conclude at approximately 3 p.m.  Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes before the start time to ensure proper computer setup for accessing the webcast.  An audio replay of the call will be available on the Company's Web site approximately 24 hours after the conclusion of the event for 30 days following the event.
 
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 


