FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20090428084550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
                                   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
                                   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 28, 2009, we issued a press release announcing our 2009 first quarter results of operations. Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Item 2.02, including the press release incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond Hospira's control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K which is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
We present "non-GAAP financial measures" in the press release, including:
 
                 
adjusted gross profit;
                 
adjusted income from operations;
                 
adjusted net income;
                 
adjusted diluted earnings per share;
                 
net sales comparisons at constant currency rates; and
                 
statistics using one or more of such adjusted financial measures.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items from the most comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States ("GAAP"). Each of these measures is presented together with the most comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. The excluded items are:
 
Project Fuel Restructuring and Optimization Charges
.  In March 2009, Hospira announced details of a multi-stage restructuring and optimization plan ("Project Fuel") which will occur over the next two years. Project Fuel includes the following activities: optimizing the product portfolio, evaluating non-strategic assets, and streamlining the organizational structure. These charges include employee related costs, including costs for severance and other assistance, process optimization implementation costs and other costs. In addition, non-cash charges for various potential asset write-downs may be incurred. Hospira expects to incur aggregate charges through 2011 related to these actions in the range of $140 million to $160 million on a pre-tax basis.
 
We do not believe that these charges are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business operations, and will be incurred over a finite period. Exclusion of these charges from the adjusted financial measures results in economic costs to us not being reflected in our adjusted financial measures.
 
We incurred Project Fuel charges, on a pre-tax basis in the amount of $10.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2009, which are reported in Restructuring, Research and development ("R&D") and Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") as indicated in the schedules to the press release.
 
Facilities Restructuring and Optimization Charges. 
These charges relate to the closure or pending closure of our Ashland, Ohio; Montreal, Canada; and Morgan Hill, California facilities and our departure from the North Chicago, Illinois leased manufacturing facility. These charges include employee related costs, accelerated depreciation resulting from decreased useful lives of the building and certain equipment and costs relating to the relocation of production and R&D operations from the affected facilities to other facilities.
 
Management determined that these facilities would not be used in our operations in future periods to reduce our future ongoing operating costs and improve the efficiency of our manufacturing operations. Further, management makes strategic decisions on the allocation of resources to improve the efficiency of our R&D facility operations.
 
We do not believe that the charges relating to the closure or disposal of these facilities, and the transfer of production and R&D operations to other facilities, are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business performance and normal operations. We expect to incur charges for these initiatives through 2011. Exclusion of these charges from the adjusted financial measures results in economic costs to us not being reflected in our adjusted financial measures.
 
We incurred facilities restructuring and optimization charges on a pre-tax basis in the amount of $11.7 million and $7.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, which are reported in Cost of products sold, Restructuring and R&D as indicated in the schedules to the press release.
 
Amortization of Mayne Pharma Intangible Assets.
   Based on our purchase price allocation relating to the Mayne Pharma Limited ("Mayne Pharma")
acquisition on February 2, 2007, we recorded $518.2 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet, which will be amortized over their estimated useful lives, resulting in significant non-cash amortization expense. During the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, we reported $13.0 million and $15.7 million, respectively, of amortization expense resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition in Cost of products sold.
 
The amount of amortization expense can vary significantly among companies in our industry depending on the frequency, size and nature of acquisitions. While recording amortization is intended to represent the decrease in value of these intangible assets over time, the amount of recorded amortization may not necessarily represent our operating performance during the periods recorded because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating the fair value and useful lives of intangible assets at the time of the acquisition. In order to assist comparability to our prior results and to the results of other companies in our industry with different acquisition histories, we have excluded the amortization of acquired intangible assets in connection with the Mayne Pharma acquisition from our adjusted financial measures. We had not excluded amortization expense in calculating our adjusted measures prior to the Mayne Pharma acquisition. Prior to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, amortization had not been material to prior periods. Amortization expense incurred on less significant intangible asset purchases, both before and after the Mayne Pharma acquisition, are not excluded from adjusted financial measures. Exclusion of amortization relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition effectively results in the recording of acquired intangible assets without recording any expense relating to the use of these assets in our business.
 
Resolution of IRS tax audit benefit
.  During the three months ended March 31, 2009, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") audit of Hospira's 2004 and 2005 tax returns was completed and the years were effectively settled. The outcome of the audit settlement is a reduction in the gross unrecognized tax benefits for both the audit years settled and resultant impact on tax years 2006 through 2008, for which $91.9 million is recognized as a discrete income tax benefit during the three months ended March 31, 2009 and reported in Income tax (benefit) expense.
 
We do not believe that this discrete income tax benefit is necessarily indicative of our ongoing business operations. Exclusion of this discrete income tax benefit from the adjusted financial measures results in economic benefit to us not being reflected in our adjusted financial measures.
 
Integration-Related Charges.  
During the three months ended March 31, 2008, we incurred $10.0 million of charges relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma and other acquisitions into our operations. These charges are reported in Cost of products sold, R&D and SG&A as indicated in the schedules to the press release. These charges include costs related to the closure of facilities, termination of lease agreements and employee related benefit agreements with the remainder of costs for capital projects.
 
We do not believe that these charges are necessarily indicative of our ongoing business operations, as they were necessitated by acquisitions and will be incurred over a finite period. Exclusion of these charges from the adjusted financial measures results in economic costs to us not being reflected in our adjusted financial measures.
 
Adjustments have been made to Income tax (benefit) expense in the appropriate period to take into account any tax effect of each excluded item noted above, except the resolution of the IRS tax audit benefit.
 
Net Sales Comparisons at Constant Currency Rates
. 
 
Our presentation of net sales by segment and product line includes comparisons at constant currency rates (reflecting comparative local currency balances and prior period foreign exchange rates), which we define as current period net sales excluding the impact of the change in foreign exchange rates less prior period reported net sales divided by prior period reported net sales. This measure provides information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates have not changed between the prior and the current period. We believe use of this measure aids in the understanding of our change in net sales without the impact of foreign currency.
 
The schedules included in the press release that reconcile the adjusted financial measures to the financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP indicate the amount of such net expenses excluded from Cost of products sold, Restructuring, R&D, SG&A and Income tax (benefit) expense to arrive at the corresponding adjusted financial measures.
 
All adjusted measures in the press release are reconciled to the most comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules. We believe that presenting measures excluding the items described above, along with measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, provide investors with more information to assess our operating performance and prospects. We also believe that excluding these items assists comparability with past performance. Our management uses these adjusted measures as supplemental measures in assessing its own performancefor example, these measures are used in establishing our annual and long-term operating plans, presented to our board of directors in its review of our financial performance and considered in establishing targets under employee incentive plans. Since these measures allow investors to assess our performance on a similar basis as our management assesses our performance, we believe that investors have more information to assess the performance of management in executing its goals and strategies.
 
Non-GAAP financial measures are not presented in accordance with a body of comprehensive accounting principles and should not be considered a substitute for any GAAP measure. The measures we use result largely from our management's determination as to whether the facts and circumstances surrounding certain transactions and events are indicative of the ordinary course of the ongoing operation of our business. As a result, non-GAAP financial measures as presented by us may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
Our management uses non-GAAP financial measures as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Accordingly, these measures should be considered together with the corresponding financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, our management reviews, and encourages investors to review, our balance sheets and statements of cash flows in order to make a complete evaluation and assessment of our financial performance.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)
                  
Exhibits.
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS FIRST-QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., April 28, 2009  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a leading global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company, today reported results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009. Net sales for the quarter were $860 million, and adjusted* diluted earnings per share were $0.60. (Adjusted* measures exclude certain specified items as described later in this press release and the attached schedules.)
 
"
Hospira delivered on its commitments in the first quarter, generating solid sales and earnings growth in a period marked by continued economic uncertainty," said Christopher B. Begley, chairman and chief executive officer. "Looking forward, we believe the results of our strategic investments and our focus on execution position us well to deliver our financial commitments for 2009. In addition, we are driving operational excellence through our optimization initiatives under Project Fuel, which will create long-term, sustainable growth and increased shareholder value."
 
Hospira, Inc.
275 North Field Drive
Lake Forest, IL 60045
www.hospira.com
 
 
First-Quarter 2009 Results
 
The following table
highlights selected financial results for the first quarter of 2009 compared to the same period in 2008:
 
 
Results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release, including a $0.57 benefit to first-quarter 2009 GAAP diluted earnings per share from the settlement of a U.S. Internal Revenue Service audit.
 
Net sales decreased 3.3 percent to $860 million in the first quarter of 2009, compared to $889 million in the first quarter of 2008. Growth in Other Pharma in the Americas segment and solid overall performance in Medication Management Systems (MMS), mainly a function of continued penetration of Symbiq
, were offset by unfavorable foreign currency translation and continued pricing pressure in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals (SIP) in the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) segment.
 
Adjusted* operating income increased 3.2 percent to $150 million in the first quarter of 2009, compared to $145 million in the first quarter of 2008. Driving the majority of the increase was improved manufacturing efficiency, with a contribution from favorable volume/mix.
 
Cash Flow
 
Cash flow from operations for the first quarter of 2009 was $89 million, compared to the $74 million generated in the same period in 2008.
 
Capital expenditures decreased to $34 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $43 million in the first quarter of 2008, due to the continued impact of capital-spending controls the company put into effect in the second half of 2008.
 
2009 Projections
 
Hospira continues to expect net sales for the year to increase approximately 4 to 6 percent on a constant-currency basis. Including the impact of foreign exchange, the company expects net sales to be flat.
 
Given the continued uncertainty surrounding the approval timing of piperacillin tazobactam, a key generic injectable pharmaceutical projected to launch during the year, Hospira has elected to remove sales of the drug from its 2009 projections. Offsetting this impact, the company now expects to receive a benefit from a lower estimated effective tax rate for 2009, as well as anticipated savings from the company's optimization efforts under its Project Fuel initiative. Hospira therefore projects adjusted* diluted earnings per share for full-year 2009 to range between $2.67 to $2.72 per share.
 
The reconciliation between the projected 2009 adjusted* diluted earnings per share and GAAP diluted earnings per share follows:
 
 
Projections for cash flow from operations, depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures remain unchanged. The company continues to project that cash flow from operations in 2009 will be in the $565 million to $615 million range. Depreciation and amortization is expected to be between $210 million and $220 million. Capital expenditures are projected to be
between $155 million and $175 million.
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules attached to this release. For more information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, please see Hospira's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
Webcast
 
Hospira will hold a conference call for investors and media at 8 a.m. Central time on Tuesday, April 28, 2009. A live webcast of the conference call will be available at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper computer setup for receiving the webcast. A replay will be available on the Hospira Web site for 30 days following the call.
 
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness
. As the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals, Hospira offers one of the broadest portfolios of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management solutions. Through its products, Hospira helps improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has approximately 14,000 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond Hospira's control, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.
Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is incorporated by reference.
Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
 
 
Statistics (as a % of net sales, except for income tax rate):
 
 
(1) The Non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (gross profit, income from operations, net income, and diluted Earnings Per Share) adjust for items that are unusual or nonrecurring. Unusual or nonrecurring items can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact Hospira's reported results for a period. Management believes that Non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a complete analysis of Hospira's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance over time. Management uses these Non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance. Refer to Hospira's filing on Form 8-K of today's date for additional information.
(2) Net sales less Cost of products sold.
 
 
 
Three months ended March 31, 2009 adjustments and Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
GAAP results for the three months ended March 31, 2009:
 
Three months ended March 31, 2008 adjustments and Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
GAAP results for the three months ended March 31, 2008:
 
(1) The Non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (gross profit, income from operations, net income, and diluted Earnings Per Share) adjust for items that are unusual or nonrecurring. Unusual or nonrecurring items can be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact Hospira's reported results for a period. Management believes that Non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a complete analysis of Hospira's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance over time. Management uses these Non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning, to monitor business unit performance, and in evaluating management performance. Refer to Hospira's filing on Form 8-K of today's date for additional information.
(2) Net sales less Cost of products sold.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Included in the reported Income before income taxes above, are the following charges:
 
 


