FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20100427080459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 27, 2010, Hospira, Inc. issued a press release announcing its 2010 first quarter results of operations. Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
In the press release, Hospira uses various non-GAAP financial measures including, among others, net sales at constant currency, adjusted gross profit, adjusted income from operations, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP measures adjust for certain specified items that are described in the press release and attached schedules. Hospira's management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a more complete analysis and greater transparency into Hospira's ongoing results of operations, particularly in comparing underlying results from period to period. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning to monitor business unit performance and in evaluating management performance. All non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)     Exhibits.
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS FIRST-QUARTER 2010 RESULTS
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., April 27, 2010  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a leading global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company, today reported results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2010. Net sales for the quarter were $1.0 billion, and adjusted* diluted earnings per share were $0.94. (Adjusted* measures exclude certain specified items as described later in this press release and the attached schedules.)
 
"Hospira started out the year with very strong sales and profitability. Our positive performance was driven by continued momentum in our Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals business, as well as by additional progress on our Project Fuel optimization initiatives," said Christopher B. Begley, chairman and chief executive officer. "Based on our first-quarter performance and the expected benefit to sales from acquiring Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals' generic injectable business, we have increased our full-year guidance. We remain dedicated to delivering on our commitments to our customers and patients through focused execution and improving shareholder value through sustainable top- and bottom-line growth."
 
 
First-Quarter 2010 Results
 
The following table highlights selected financial results for the first quarter of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009:
 
 
Results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release, including a $0.57 benefit to first-quarter 2009 GAAP diluted earnings per share from the settlement of a U.S. Internal Revenue Service audit.
 
Net sales increased 17.2 percent to $1.0 billion in the first quarter of 2010, compared to $860 million in the first quarter of 2009. Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals drove the majority of the growth, primarily a result of continued strong U.S. sales of the generic oncolytic oxaliplatin and Precedex, Hospira's proprietary sedation agent, as well as several products launched in the last year.
 
Adjusted* income from operations increased 60.0 percent to $240 million in the first quarter of 2010, compared to $150 million in the first quarter of 2009. Driving the majority of the increase were higher net sales, more favorable product mix and improved manufacturing efficiency from the company's Project Fuel optimization initiatives.
 
The effective tax rate on an adjusted basis in the quarter was 27.0 percent, up from the first-quarter 2009 rate of 21.5 percent. The increase is primarily related to the expiration of certain U.S. tax provisions in the first quarter of 2010. A shift of earnings to higher tax jurisdictions relative to the first-quarter 2009 earnings mix also contributed to the increase.
 
Cash Flow
 
Cash flow from operations for the first quarter of 2010 resulted in an outflow of $6 million compared to an inflow of $89 million in the same period in 2009. The decrease primarily reflects the timing of chargeback payments associated with U.S. sales of oxaliplatin.
 
Capital expenditures were $41 million for the first quarter of 2010, compared to $34 million in the first quarter of 2009, mainly a result of Project Fuel-related spending.
 
2010 Projections
 
Hospira now expects net sales to increase approximately 3 to 5 percent on a constant-currency basis. Including the impact of foreign exchange, the company expects net sales growth to be 4 to 6 percent.
 
Hospira is also increasing its adjusted* diluted earnings per share projection for full-year 2010, which now is expected to range between $3.35 and $3.45 per share.
 
The reconciliation between the projected 2010 adjusted* diluted earnings per share and GAAP diluted earnings per share follows:
 
 
The estimated charges are shown net of tax of $53 million, which is calculated for the specified components stated above based on the statutory tax rate in the various tax jurisdictions in which the items are expected to occur.
 
The company is increasing its projection for cash flow from operations, which is now expected to range between $625 million and $675 million. Depreciation and amortization are now projected to be in a range of $250 million to $260 million, reflecting the impact of the Orchid Pharma acquisition. The projected range for capital expenditures remains unchanged at $195 million to $215 million.
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules attached to this release. For more information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, please see Hospira's Current Report on Form 8-K furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
Webcast/Complementary Material
 
Hospira will hold a conference call for investors and media at 8 a.m. Central time on Tuesday, April 27, 2010. A live webcast of the conference call will be available on Hospira's Web site at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper setup for receiving the webcast. In addition, complementary information will be available on the presentations page of the Investor Relations Web site at the beginning of the conference call. A replay will be available on the Hospira Web site for 30 days following the call.
 
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness. As the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals, Hospira offers one of the broadest portfolios of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management solutions. Through its products, Hospira helps improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has approximately 13,500 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, legal, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 
Statistics (as a % of net sales, except for income tax rate):
 
 
(1) Adjusted financial measures exclude certain specified items as described and reconciled to comparable GAAP financial measures in the Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures contained in this press release.
(2) Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold. Adjusted gross profit excludes certain specified items, as indicated in the previous footnote.
 
 
 
Three months ended March 31, 2010 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
GAAP results for the three months ended March 31, 2010 include:
(A)
               
Project Fuel and related charges: $3.7 million reported in Cost of products sold, $(8.6) million reported in Restructuring, impairment and (gain) on disposition of assets, net, $0.2 million reported in Research and development and $3.3 million reported in Selling, general and administrative. Project Fuel initiatives include costs for process optimization implementation, severance and other employee benefits, exit costs, and other asset charges. These charges are offset by a $11.4 million gain reported in Restructuring, impairment and (gain) on disposition of assets, net related to the disposal of the non-strategic net assets associated with the Wasserburg, Germany, facility.
(B)
                 
Facilities Optimization charges: $2.0 million reported in Cost of products sold and $1.0 million reported in Restructuring, impairment and (gain) on disposition of assets, net. These charges relate to facilities optimization from the closure or departure from certain manufacturing and research and development ("R&D") facilities and include costs for severance and other employee benefits, accelerated depreciation and relocation of production and R&D operations.
(C)
                 
Amortization of Mayne Pharma Limited ("Mayne Pharma") and Orchid Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals Ltd. ("Orchid Pharma") intangible assets resulting from the Mayne Pharma and Orchid Pharma acquisitions are reported in Cost of products sold.
(D)
                
Acquisition and integration-related charges: $1.0 million reported in Research and development and $11.0 million reported in Selling, general and administrative. These charges include acquisition and integration costs related to the acquisition of the generic injectable pharmaceutical businesses of Orchid Pharma.
 
Three months ended March 31, 2009 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
GAAP results for the three months ended March 31, 2009 include:
(A)
               
Project Fuel and related charges: $4.7 million reported in Restructuring, impairment and (gain) on disposition of assets, net, $0.4 million reported in Research and development and $5.4 million reported in Selling, general and administrative. Project Fuel initiatives include costs for severance and other employee benefits, process optimization implementation, exit costs, and other asset charges.
(B)
                 
Facilities Optimization charges: $7.0 million reported in Cost of products sold and $4.7 million reported in Restructuring, impairment and (gain) on disposition of assets, net. These charges relate to facilities optimization from the closure or departure from certain manufacturing and R&D facilities and include costs for severance and other employee benefits, accelerated depreciation and relocation of production and R&D operations.
(C)
                 
Amortization of Mayne Pharma intangible assets resulting from the Mayne Pharma acquisition is reported in Cost of products sold.
(D)
                
Resolution of IRS tax audit benefit of $91.9 million reported in Income tax expense (benefit). This discrete income tax benefit is related to the completion and effective settlement of U.S. tax return audits.
 
(1)
                   
Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold.
(2)
                   
Specified items are shown net of tax of $14.8 million and $103.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, based on the statutory tax rate in the various tax jurisdictions in which the items occurred.
(3)
                   
The Non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (including adjusted gross profit, adjusted income from operations, adjusted net income and adjusted diluted Earnings Per Share) adjust for certain specified items. All Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Refer to Hospira's filing on Form 8-K filed on April 27, 2010 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
         
The Non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release include comparisons at constant currency rates (reflecting comparative local currency balances at prior period foreign exchange rates), which we define as current period net sales excluding the impact of the change in foreign exchange rates less prior period reported net sales divided by prior period reported net sales. This financial measure provides information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates have not changed between the prior and the current period. Management believes the use of this financial measure aids in the understanding of our change in net sales without the impact of foreign currency. All Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 


