FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20100204081744.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02               Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 4, 2010, Hospira, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2009.  Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In the press release, Hospira uses various non-GAAP financial measures including, among others, net sales at constant currency, adjusted gross profit, adjusted income from operations, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share.  These non-GAAP measures adjust for certain specified items that are described in the press release and attached schedules.  Hospira's management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a more complete analysis and greater transparency into Hospira's ongoing results of operations, particularly in comparing underlying results from period to period.  Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning to monitor business unit performance and in evaluating management performance.  All non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
HOSPIRA REPORTS FOURTH-QUARTER AND FULL-YEAR 2009 RESULTS
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Feb. 4, 2010  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a leading global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company, today reported results for the fourth quarter and full year ended Dec. 31, 2009. For the fourth quarter of 2009, net sales were $1.1 billion, and adjusted* diluted earnings per share were $0.87. For the full year of 2009, net sales were $3.9 billion, and adjusted* diluted earnings per share were $3.11. (Adjusted* measures exclude certain specified items as described later in this press release and the attached schedules.)
 
"Driven by
double-digit revenue and adjusted earnings growth, the fourth quarter concluded a year of transformation for Hospira. In addition to our strong financial performance, we made significant progress on many fronts, including augmenting our biogenerics program, launching a generic version of a blockbuster oncology drug, and advancing Project Fuel, our corporate-wide optimization initiative
," said Christopher B. Begley, chairman and chief executive officer. "Looking forward, we expect 2010 to be another good year of growth for Hospira. Backed by our commitment to strong execution and focus on sustained operational improvement, we continue to position Hospira for sustainable, long-term growth and increased shareholder value."
Fourth-Quarter 2009 Results
 
The following table highlights selected financial results for the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the same period in 2008:
 
 
Results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
 
Net sales increased 15.5 percent to $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2009, compared to $914 million in the fourth quarter of 2008.  The growth was driven mainly by an increase in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals, primarily a result of the third-quarter 2009 launch of the generic chemotherapy agent oxaliplatin in solution form in the United States and strength in our proprietary sedation agent, Precedex
.
 
Adjusted* income from operations increased 8.5 percent to $204 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, compared to $188 million in the fourth quarter of 2008.  Driving the majority of the increase were higher net sales, more favorable product mix and improvements resulting from the company's Project Fuel optimization initiatives.
Full-Year 2009 Results
 
The following table highlights selected financial results for the full-year 2009 compared to the same period in 2008:
 
 
Net sales increased 6.9 percent to $3.9 billion for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009, compared to $3.6 billion for the prior year. The growth was driven mainly by Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals, with strong growth from the U.S. launch of oxaliplatin and strength in Precedex.
 
Adjusted* income from operations increased 14.0 percent to $738 million for the full year of 2009, compared to $647 million for the full year of 2008. Higher net sales volume and increased manufacturing efficiency, including the impact of Project Fuel optimization initiatives, were the major drivers of the full-year operating income performance.
Partially offsetting these factors were the impact of costs associated with certain product corrective actions, as well as foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
 
Cash Flow
 
Cash flow from operations for the full-year 2009 was $945 million, compared to the  $584 million generated in 2008. The increase reflects stronger income from operations and favorable changes in working capital, which were primarily associated with the timing of the payment of rebate and chargeback accruals related to 2009 sales of oxaliplatin.
 
Capital expenditures were $159 million for the full year, compared to $164 million in 2008.  The decline was partly due to lower spending in 2009 than in 2008 related to the company's facilities optimization initiatives.
 
2010 Projections
 
Hospira expects net sales growth for full-year 2010 to be approximately 6 to 8 percent on a constant-currency basis, excluding the projected year-over-year impact of oxaliplatin sales and business disposals. Including the impact of these items and foreign exchange, the company expects net sales to be flat to slightly up. Adjusted* diluted earnings per share for 2010 are expected to be in the range of $3.25 to $3.35.
 
The reconciliation between the projected 2010 adjusted* diluted earnings per share and GAAP diluted earnings per share follows:
 
The estimated charges are shown net of tax of $51 million, which is calculated for the individual components of the provided ranges based on the statutory tax rate in the various tax jurisdictions in which the adjustments are expected to occur.
 
The company projects that cash flow from operations in 2010 will be in the $600 million to $650 million range. The year-over-year decrease in cash flow from operations includes the projected effect of timing related to rebate and chargeback payments associated with 2009 sales of oxaliplatin. Depreciation and amortization is expected to be between $235 million and $245 million. Capital expenditures are projected to be between $195 million and $215 million, primarily related to Information Technology projects associated with the company's Project Fuel initiatives.
 
"The significant momentum we generated in 2009 has paved the way for continued progress in 2010,"said Begley. "With our robust product pipeline, anticipated advancements in both Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals and Medication Management Systems, combined with our focus on operational optimization through Project Fuel, Hospira is on track for another good year."
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules attached to this release.  For more information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, please see Hospira's Current Report on Form 8-K furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
Webcast/Complementary Material
 
Hospira will hold a conference call for investors and media at 8 a.m. Central time on Thursday, Feb. 4, 2010. A live webcast of the conference call will be available on Hospira's Web site at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper setup for receiving the webcast. In addition, complementary information will be available on the presentations page of the Investor Relations Web site at the beginning of the conference call. A replay will be available on the Hospira Web site for 30 days following the call.
 
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness. As the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals, Hospira offers one of the broadest portfolios of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management solutions. Through its products, Hospira helps improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has approximately 13,500 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, legal, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
 
 
Statistics (as a % of net sales, except for income tax rate):
 
 
 
 
 
Statistics (as a % of net sales, except for income tax rate):
 
 
 
 
Three months ended December 31, 2009 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
 
Three months ended December 31, 2008 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended December 31, 2009 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
Year ended December 31, 2008 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
 
(1)
  
Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold.
(2)
  
Adjusted Net Income is shown net of tax of $129.5 million and $128.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, based on the statutory tax rate in the various tax jurisdictions in which the adjustments occurred.
(3)
  
The Non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release (including adjusted gross profit, adjusted income from operations, adjusted net income and adjusted diluted Earnings Per Share) adjust for certain specified items. All Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Refer to Hospira's filing on Form 8-K filed on February 4, 2010 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
   
The Non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release include comparisons at constant currency rates (reflecting comparative local currency balances at prior period foreign exchange rates), which we define as current period net sales excluding the impact of the change in foreign exchange rates less prior period reported net sales divided by prior period reported net sales. This financial measure provides information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates have not changed between the prior and the current period. Management believes the use of this financial measure aids in the understanding of our change in net sales without the impact of foreign currency. All Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


