FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20101026074412.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02               Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 26, 2010, Hospira, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter 2010.  Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In the press release, Hospira uses various non-GAAP financial measures including, among others, net sales at constant currency, adjusted gross profit, adjusted income from operations, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share.  These non-GAAP measures adjust for certain specified items that are described in the press release and attached schedules.  Hospira's management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a more complete analysis and greater transparency into Hospira's ongoing results of operations, particularly in comparing underlying results from period to period.  Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning to monitor business unit performance and in evaluating management performance.  All non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Oct. 26, 2010  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a leading global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company, today reported results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2010. Net sales for the quarter were $949 million, and adjusted* diluted earnings per share were $0.74. (Adjusted* measures exclude certain specified items as described later in this press release and the attached schedules.)
 
"Hospira delivered a solid third quarter, despite difficult year-over-year comparisons from the temporary discontinuation of U.S. oxaliplatin sales and the impact of several divestitures," said Christopher B. Begley, chairman and chief executive officer. "During the quarter, we gained momentum on several of our existing and newly launched specialty pharmaceuticals; we saw continued contributions from Project Fuel, our companywide optimization initiative; and we made good progress on our quality-improvement efforts. We believe the efforts and advancements we are making this year position Hospira for another good year and continued growth going forward."
 
 
Third-Quarter 2010 Results
 
The following table highlights selected financial results for the third quarter of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009:
 
 
Results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
 
Net sales decreased 5.8 percent to $949 million in the third quarter of 2010, compared to $1.0 billion in the third quarter of 2009. Strong sales in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals, resulting from the U.S. sales of Precedex, meropenem, vancomycin and heparin, were more than offset by the temporary discontinuation of U.S. sales of oxaliplatin pursuant to a litigation settlement and the decline in Medication Management Systems, primarily a result of the company's voluntary hold on shipments of its Symbiq Infusion System to new customers.
 
Adjusted* income from operations decreased 8.6 percent to $189 million in the third quarter of 2010, compared to $207 million in the third quarter of 2009.  Improved manufacturing efficiency from the company's Project Fuel optimization initiatives was more than offset by lower sales volume and associated margins primarily due to the temporary exit from the U.S. oxaliplatin market, charges associated with certain quality and product-related matters, and higher research and development expenses related to new product development programs, including clinical trials.
 
The effective tax rate on an adjusted basis* in the quarter was 23.8 percent, up from the third-quarter 2009 rate of 19.0 percent. The increase is primarily related to a shift in earnings mix to higher tax jurisdictions relative to the third quarter of 2009.
 
Cash Flow
 
Cash flow from operations for the first nine months of 2010 was $235 million, compared to the $541 million generated for the same period in 2009. The decrease primarily reflects the timing of chargeback and rebate payments associated with prior U.S. sales of oxaliplatin, increased inventories, as well as higher U.S. income tax and quality-initiative payments.
 
Capital expenditures were $142 million for the first nine months of 2010, compared to $119 million for the first nine months of 2009. The increase is primarily associated with investments associated with manufacturing-optimization and information technology-related enhancement initiatives.
 
2010 Projections
 
Due to delays in customer purchasing decisions in Medication Management Systems as well as the expectation of lower-than-anticipated sales growth in Other Pharma, the company now projects net sales growth of approximately 2 to 3 percent on a constant-currency basis.  On a reported basis, the company expects net sales growth of 3 to 4 percent.
 
Hospira has narrowed its adjusted* diluted earnings per share projection to the upper range of the previous projection.  The company now expects adjusted* diluted earnings per share for full-year 2010 to be between $3.40 and $3.45.
 
The reconciliation between the projected 2010 adjusted* diluted earnings per share and GAAP diluted earnings per share follows:
 
 
The adjusting items are shown net of tax in aggregate of $95 million, which is calculated for the specified adjustments stated above, based on the statutory tax rate in the various tax jurisdictions in which the items are expected to occur.
 
 
The company is maintaining guidance for cash flow from operations to range between $525 million and $575 million. The projected range for depreciation and amortization remains unchanged at $250 million to $260 million, as does the projected range for capital expenditures, at $195 million to $215 million.
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Adjusted measures used in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules attached to this release.  For more information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, please see Hospira's Current Report on Form 8-K furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
Webcast/Complementary Material
Hospira will hold a conference call for investors and media at 8 a.m. Central time on Tuesday, Oct. 26, 2010. A live webcast of the conference call will be available on Hospira's Web site at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper setup for receiving the webcast. In addition, complementary information will be available on the presentations page of the Investor Relations Web site at the beginning of the conference call. A replay will be available on the Web site for 30 days following the call.
 
About Hospira
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness. As the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals, Hospira offers one of the broadest portfolios of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management solutions. Through its products, Hospira helps improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has approximately 13,500 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory, legal, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
Contacts:
 
 
 
Statistics (as a % of net sales, except for income tax rate):
 
 
 
nm - Percentage change is not meaningful.
 
 
Statistics (as a % of net sales, except for income tax rate):
 
 
 
Three months ended September 30, 2010 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
 
 
Three months ended September 30, 2009 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2010 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
 
 
Nine months ended September 30, 2009 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


