FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20100401164838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01
              
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On March 30, 2010, Hospira, Inc., through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Hospira Healthcare India Private Limited ("Hospira"), entered into an amendment to its Business Transfer Agreement, dated December 15, 2009, by and among Hospira, Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. ("Orchid"), and Mr. K. Raghavendra Rao (the "Business Transfer Agreement") to acquire from Orchid its generic injectable finished-dosage form pharmaceuticals business. The amendment evidenced certain agreements among the parties in connection with the closing of the transaction. The foregoing summary description of the amendment to the Business Transfer Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such amendment, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the acquisition is attached as Exhibit 99.l, and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Item 9.01
              
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned  hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT
[***] Indicates that text has been omitted which is the subject of a confidential
treatment request.  This text has been separately filed with the SEC.
EXECUTION COPY
 
This Amendment No. 1 (this "") is made and entered into as of March 30, 2010 by and between Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd., a company incorporated under the Act (""), and Hospira Healthcare India Private Limited, a company incorporated under the Act (""), for the purpose of amending that certain Business Transfer Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2009, by and among Orchid, Mr. K. Raghavendra Rao and Hospira (the "").  Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Agreement.
Amendment
Orchid
Hospira
Agreement
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises made by the Parties hereto and for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, intending to be legally bound, the Parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.
                                      
Amendments to Agreement
.
 
A.
                                 
Section 2.2.3 of the Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
[***]
 
 
 
 
 
B.
                                   
Section 3.1 of the Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
The cash consideration for the Transferred Assets of the Business, exclusive of all applicable Transfer Taxes resulting from the transfer of the Transferred Assets of the Business, is USD 392,500,000 (United States Dollar Three Hundred Ninety Two Million Five Hundred Thousand) (the "Cash Consideration"), subject to adjustment in accordance with Clause 3.2. At the Closing, the Purchaser shall assume the Assumed Liabilities. The Cash Consideration as adjusted pursuant to Clause 3.2, Clause 6.15, Clause 8.10 and Clause 11.7, and the Assumed Liabilities are collectively referred to herein as the "Purchase Price."
 
C.
                                   
Section 3.3 of the Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
The Seller and the Purchaser shall sign and submit all necessary forms to report the transactions contemplated by this Agreement for federal, national, regional, state, local, county, city, municipal, town, village, district, foreign or other income Tax purposes consistent with the allocation of the Cash Consideration delivered by the Purchaser to the Seller, which allocation
 
 
CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT
[***] Indicates that text has been omitted which is the subject of a confidential
treatment request.  This text has been separately filed with the SEC.
 
shall be delivered by the Purchaser no later than 45 (forty-five) calendar days after the Closing Date, any allocation schedule set forth in an Ancillary Agreement and any adjustments to such amounts or allocation schedules following the Closing (including as required by Clause 3.2) and shall not take a position for Tax purposes inconsistent therewith. The Parties shall treat the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in all filings with Governmental Authorities for all Tax purposes (including consumption Taxes) consistent with the amount of the Cash Consideration to be paid to the Seller in accordance with Clause 7.2.2, any allocation schedule set forth in an Ancillary Agreement and this Clause 3.3.
 
D.
                                  
Schedule 1.1(c) of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with to this Amendment.
Exhibit A
 
E.
                                    
Schedule 9.11.4 of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with to this Amendment.
Exhibit B
 
F.
                                    
Schedule 9.11.6 of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with to this Amendment.
Exhibit C
 
2.
                                      
General
.  Except as amended by this Amendment, the terms and conditions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
 
3.
                                      
Governing Law
.  The internal laws of India (without giving effect to any choice or conflict of law provision or rule (whether of India or any other jurisdiction) that would cause the application of laws of any other jurisdiction) govern all matters arising out of or relating to this Amendment and its Exhibits and all of the transactions it contemplates, including its validity, interpretation, construction, performance and enforcement and any disputes or controversies arising therefrom or related thereto.
 
4.
                                      
Entire Agreement
.  This Amendment, the Agreement and the exhibits, schedules and addendums hereto and thereto, constitute the entire agreement of the Parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede all previous written or oral negotiations, commitments and writings.
 
5.
                                      
Execution in Counterparts
.  This Amendment may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument, and any Party may execute this Amendment by signing any one or more of such originals or counterparts.  The delivery of signed counterparts by facsimile transmission or electronic mail in "portable document format" (".pdf") shall be as effective as signing and delivering the counterpart in person.
 
 
CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT
[***] Indicates that text has been omitted which is the subject of a confidential
treatment request.  This text has been separately filed with the SEC.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the Parties have executed this Amendment as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
 
CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT
[***] Indicates that text has been omitted which is the subject of a confidential
treatment request.  This text has been separately filed with the SEC.
 
 
 
CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT
[***] Indicates that text has been omitted which is the subject of a confidential
treatment request.  This text has been separately filed with the SEC.
 
 
 
CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT
[***] Indicates that text has been omitted which is the subject of a confidential
treatment request.  This text has been separately filed with the SEC.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
HOSPIRA COMPLETES ACQUISITION OF ORCHID'S GENERIC INJECTABLE PHARMACEUTICALS BUSINESS
 
Gains New Manufacturing Capabilities and Expands Global Reach 
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., March 30, 2010  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), the world leader in generic injectable pharmaceuticals, today announced it has completed the acquisition of the generic injectable pharmaceuticals business of Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (BSE: 524372, NSE: ORCHIDCHEM), a leading Indian pharmaceuticals company, for approximately $400 million.
 
"We are excited to acquire new capabilities that will create opportunities for commercial growth, position us strongly in a key antibiotics product area, expand our global footprint and enhance our ability to provide lower-cost, high-quality products to patients," said Terry Kearney, chief operating officer, Hospira. "We're also excited to welcome a talented base of 450 employees, including newly appointed managing director, Hospira India, Dr. C.B. Rao, who joins us with a wealth of diversified industrial and management experience, and will provide continuity of leadership for the Orchid team joining Hospira."
 
Rao will report directly to Kearney.
 
"Integration of Orchid's injectables formulations business with Hospira, the global leader in generic injectables, represents a strong strategic fit. Our team is committed to leveraging our world-class infrastructure, high-technology product range and organizational competencies to drive even greater business growth and strengthen Hospira's leadership position," said Rao.
 
Hospira, Inc.
275 North Field Drive
Lake Forest, IL 60045
www.hospira.com
 
 
 
The acquisition includes Orchid's beta-lactam antibiotic formulations manufacturing complex (comprising cephalosporin, penicillin and carbapenem facilities) and pharmaceutical research and development (R&D) facility at Irungattukottai, Chennai, as well as its generic injectable dosage-form product portfolio and pipeline. Beta-lactam antibiotics represent a class of drugs with a wide spectrum of antibacterial activity, and Orchid is one of the top-five generic beta-lactam antibiotics manufacturers globally.
 
In addition, the companies signed a long-term agreement for Orchid to supply active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) for the acquired generic injectable pharmaceuticals business.
 
Hospira and Orchid are committed to supporting the various alliances and distribution arrangements of the acquired business. To help facilitate the transition process, the two companies have entered into transitional services agreements for approximately 15 months.
 
Hospira expects to provide more specific information on the financial impact of the transaction when it reports first-quarter 2010 results on April 27.
 
Orchid/Hospira Partnership
 
In 2005, Mayne Pharma Ltd. (now part of Hospira) and Orchid entered into a strategic commercialization and development agreement.  Subsequent agreements have added to the scope of the relationship, and the acquisition gives Hospira the manufacturing/R&D capabilities, product application ownership and full commercialization rights to these products, as well as access to new product licenses and distribution partnerships.  The long-term API agreement with Orchid will also ensure continuity of supply.
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness
. As the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals, Hospira offers one of the broadest portfolios of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management solutions. Through its products, Hospira helps improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., USA, and has approximately 13,500 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
 
About Orchid
 
Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is a leading pharmaceutical company headquartered in Chennai, India, involved in the development, manufacture and marketing of diverse bulk actives, formulations and nutraceuticals. With exports spanning more than 75 countries, Orchid is the largest manufacturer-exporter of cephalosporin bulk actives in India and is ranked amongst the Top 5-cephalosporin producers in the world. Orchid's world-class manufacturing infrastructure includes multiple USFDA compliant API and dosage form facilities at Chennai and Aurangabad in India. Orchid has dedicated state-of-the-art GLP compliant R&D centres for API research, drug discovery and pharmaceutical research at Chennai, India. Orchid has ISO 9001:2000, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications. Orchid is listed on the National Stock Exchange (NSE), Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the Madras Stock Exchange (MSE) in India. Additional information is available at the company's website at www.orchidpharma.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, legal, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
Hospira Contacts
 
Media
Dan Rosenberg
(224) 212-3366
 
Financial Community
Karen King
(224) 212-2711


