FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20110817165112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02
                                            
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On August 17, 2011, William G. Dempsey was elected to Hospira's board of directors as a Class III director with a term expiring at the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders.  Mr. Dempsey will serve on the board's audit and science, technology and quality committees.  The press release announcing the election of Mr. Dempsey to the board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.  Mr. Dempsey will receive the standard non-employee director compensation for serving on the board.  For a description of that compensation, please see Hospira's 2011 Proxy Statement, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 28, 2011.
 
Item 9.01
              
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
                                     
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned  hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Aug. 17, 2011  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a  leading global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company, today announced that William G. Dempsey has been elected to the company's board of directors. Dempsey brings strong executive management and diverse global experience from leadership positions held in the healthcare industry. The addition of Dempsey expands Hospira's board to 11 directors, nine of whom are independent.
 
"Bill understands how to successfully grow a large, multinational healthcare business," said Christopher B. Begley, executive chairman. "His impressive track record of results-oriented leadership and operational experience in the healthcare field makes him an excellent fit for the Hospira board."
 
John C. Staley, Hospira's lead director, added, "We are excited to welcome Bill to Hospira's board of directors. His broad and deep knowledge of global healthcare markets enhances our current board membership and supports Hospira's goals for international expansion."
 
Dempsey, 59, spent more than two decades at Abbott Laboratories, most recently serving as executive vice president, Global Pharmaceuticals, where he was responsible for the company's $14 billion global pharmaceutical business, representing more than 33,000 employees. In this position, from which he retired in 2007, he drove the business to 15 percent growth in revenues and profitability in the face of major new generic competition. He also led an initiative that doubled research and development productivity over three years, and negotiated and integrated the successful $3.7 billion acquisition of the cardiovascular company, Kos Pharmaceuticals.
 
Hospira, Inc.
275 North Field Drive
Lake Forest, IL 60045
www.hospira.com
From 2003 to 2006, Dempsey was Abbott's senior vice president, Pharmaceutical Operations, responsible for Abbott's $8 billion U.S. pharmaceuticals business. In this role, Dempsey consistently delivered strong sales growth and successfully launched the blockbuster rheumatoid arthritis drug Humira.
 
Previously, Dempsey was Abbott's senior vice president, International Operations, where he served from 1999 to 2003, managing all of Abbott's pharmaceutical, hospital and nutritional businesses outside the United States. During his tenure, he grew the business from approximately $3 billion in sales to $5 billion in sales.
 
In prior roles at Abbott, Dempsey served as senior vice president, Chemical and Agricultural Products, and vice president, Hospital Products Business Sector, among other positions. Before working at Abbott, Dempsey served in various roles at Sciaky Brothers Inc. and Crane Company.
 
Dempsey currently serves on the boards of Landauer, Inc. and Nordion, Inc. A native of Chicago, Ill., he holds a Bachelor of Science degree from DePaul University.
 
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness
. As the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals, Hospira offers one of the broadest portfolios of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management solutions. Through its products, Hospira helps improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has approximately 14,000 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.


