FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20111209170657.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02
              
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On December 7, 2011, the board of directors of Hospira, Inc. (the "Company") announced that on December 7, Christopher B. Begley informed them that he was retiring as executive chairman of the board and as a director on January 3, 2012.  At that time, Mr. John C. Staley, the Company's lead director, will become the non-executive chair of the board.  With Mr. Begley's retirement, the Company's board will consist of ten directors. The press release announcing these matters is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
 
In addition to the standard director compensation that all non-employee directors receive, Mr. Staley will receive additional annual fees of $155,000.  This additional amount will be paid as $110,000 in restricted shares and $45,000 in cash.  For a description of the standard non-employee director compensation, please see the Company's 2011 Proxy Statement, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 28, 2011.
 
Item 9.01
              
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)
               
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned  hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Dec. 7, 2011  The board of directors of Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), the world's leading provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies, today announced that Christopher B. Begley, 59, will retire as executive chairman effective Jan. 3, 2012. At that time, John C. (Jack) Staley, 70, a founding director of the company's board and currently its lead director, will be appointed non-executive chairman.
 
These moves are part of the board's disciplined succession process, which included the appointment of F. Michael Ball as the company's chief executive officer (CEO), succeeding Mr. Begley earlier this year. In his role as executive chairman, Mr. Begley helped ensure continuity of leadership and a seamless transition of his CEO responsibilities.
 
"On behalf of the board and Hospira's 14,000 employees, I want to thank Chris for his leadership, unparalleled dedication and countless contributions to Hospira," said Mr. Staley. "As the company's founding CEO, Chris oversaw Hospira's 2004 spin-off from Abbott Laboratories, drove the development of the company's business strategies and guiding principles, and established strong fundamentals for its future growth."
 
Added Mr. Ball, "I'd like to express my personal gratitude to Chris for his tremendous support and wise counsel during the transition and for his pioneering efforts in building a company that makes a real difference in healthcare today  a company uniquely positioned to increase patient and caregiver safety, while reducing unsustainably high costs. Looking ahead, I'm excited to partner with Jack, the board and our dedicated Hospira team as we continue to
drive quality enhancements throughout the organization
, capitalize on our exceptional growth potential and deliver value to our customers and shareholders."
 
 
 
Commenting on his retirement, Mr. Begley said, "Launching Hospira as an independent company has been the most rewarding experience of my three decades in healthcare, and I will greatly miss working with Hospira's talented and committed employees to advance wellness for our stakeholders around the globe. Under Mike's leadership as CEO and Jack's direction as chairman, I'm more confident than ever in the company's bright future and ability to achieve new levels of growth and success."
 
With Mr. Begley's retirement and Mr. Staley's appointment, the Hospira board will have 10 directors, all of whom are independent with the exception of Mr. Ball.
 
About John C. Staley
 
Mr. Staley has been a Hospira director since the company's inception in 2004 and its lead independent director since May 2011, bringing deep and diverse leadership experience and a proven track record of success. He is a member of the Governance and Public Policy Committee, and Science, Technology and Quality Committee, as well as the former chair of the Audit Committee, of which he is an ex-officio member. Mr. Staley is also a member and former chairman of the board of trustees of DePaul University; a director of eLoyalty Corporation, a management consulting firm; and a director of Nicor, Inc., a holding company whose main subsidiary is Nicor Gas, a natural gas distribution company. Mr. Staley also serves on the board of Nicor Gas. He is a retired managing partner of the Ernst & Young LLP's Lake Michigan Area, a position he held from 1985 until his retirement in June 2001. Mr. Staley earned a bachelor's degree in accounting from Holy Cross College and a law degree from DePaul University. He also completed Harvard Business School's Advanced Management Program.
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is the world's leading provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies. Through its broad, integrated portfolio, Hospira is uniquely positioned to Advance Wellness by improving patient and caregiver safety while reducing healthcare costs. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has approximately 14,000 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory, legal, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
Contacts:
 
 


