FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20110727075932.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02
                                            
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 27, 2011, Hospira, Inc. ("Hospira") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter 2011.  Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In the press release, Hospira uses various non-GAAP financial measures including, among others, net sales at constant currency, adjusted gross profit, adjusted income from operations, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share.  These non-GAAP measures adjust for certain specified items that are described in the press release and attached schedules.  Hospira's management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a more complete analysis and greater transparency into Hospira's ongoing results of operations, particularly in comparing underlying results from period to period.  Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning to monitor business unit performance and in evaluating management performance.  All non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Item 9.01
                                            
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned  hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., July 27, 2011  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), a leading global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company, today reported results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2011. Net sales for the quarter were $1.1 billion, and adjusted* diluted earnings per share were $0.94. (Adjusted* measures exclude certain specified items as described later in this press release and the attached schedules.)
 
"Hospira delivered strong second-quarter performance, driven primarily by positive results for the oncolytic docetaxel in the United States," said F. Michael Ball, chief executive officer.  "We continued to advance the business and make progress on our quality and product supply improvement initiatives. In part due to the quarter's results, we are increasing our sales projections for the year, and remain focused on driving value for our customers, patients and shareholders."
 
 
Second-Quarter 2011 Results
 
The following table highlights selected financial results for the second quarter of 2011 compared to the same period in 2010:
 
 
Results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
 
Net sales increased 9.9 percent to $1.1 billion in the second quarter of 2011, compared to $968 million in the second quarter of 2010. Driving the quarter's performance was strong sales in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals, primarily driven by U.S. sales of the oncolytic docetaxel, as well as by contribution from several other newer compounds.
 
Adjusted* income from operations decreased 0.5 percent to $212 million in the second quarter of 2011, compared to $213 million in the second quarter of 2010. The decrease is primarily due to a difficult year-over-year comparison driven by strong margin contribution from U.S. sales of oncolytic oxaliplatin in the second quarter of 2010, as well as the 2011 impact of the joint-venture arrangement related to the production of docetaxel, which tempered the margin contribution of U.S. docetaxel sales.
 
The effective tax rate on an adjusted basis* in the quarter was 23.0 percent, a slight decrease from the second-quarter 2010 rate of 23.8 percent.
 
Cash Flow
 
Cash flow from operations for the first six months of 2011 was $253 million, compared to the $144 million generated for the same period in 2010. The increase primarily reflects the timing of rebate and chargeback payments, partially offset by higher inventory levels.
 
Capital expenditures were $139 million for the first six months of 2011, compared to $79 million for the first six months of 2010. The increase is related to the company's capacity expansion and information technology (IT) initiatives.
 
During the second quarter, Hospira entered into accelerated share repurchase (ASR) agreements under its $1 billion share repurchase authorization. Under the agreements, which the company completed in July 2011, the company repurchased 3.7 million shares of common stock for a total of $200 million.
 
2011 Projections
 
Hospira is now projecting full-year net sales growth of approximately 7 to 9 percent on a constant-currency basis, with foreign exchange now expected to contribute an additional 2 percent.
 
The company anticipates that the projected higher sales growth will be offset by lower than originally anticipated gross margin performance. As a result, Hospira is maintaining its adjusted* diluted earnings per share projection for full-year 2011, which is expected to range between $3.90 and $4.00 per share, representing year-over-year growth of 18 to 21 percent.
 
The reconciliation between the projected 2011 adjusted* diluted earnings per share and GAAP diluted earnings per share follows:
 
 
The adjusting items are shown net of tax in aggregate of $32 million, which is calculated for the specified adjustments stated above, based on the statutory tax rate in the various tax jurisdictions in which the items are expected to occur.
 
The company is maintaining its guidance for cash flow from operations, depreciation and amortization and capital expenditures. Cash flow from operations is projected to range between $650 million and $700 million. Depreciation and amortization is projected to range between $230 million to $250 million, and capital expenditures are projected to range between $375 million and $400 million.
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Adjusted measures used in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules attached to this release. For more information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, please see Hospira's Current Report on Form 8-K furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
Webcast / Complementary Material
 
Hospira will hold a conference call for investors and media at 8 a.m. Central time on Wednesday, July 27, 2011. A simultaneous webcast of the conference call will be available on Hospira's website at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper setup for receiving the webcast. In addition, complementary information will be available on the presentations page of the Investor Relations website at the beginning of the conference call. A replay will be available on the website for 30 days following the call.
 
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company dedicated to Advancing Wellness. As the world leader in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals, Hospira offers one of the broadest portfolios of generic acute-care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management solutions. Through its products, Hospira helps improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has approximately 14,000 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations, projections of certain charges and expenses, cash flow and other statements regarding Hospira's goals and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory, legal, technological and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
Statistics (as a % of net sales, except for income tax rate):
 
 
(1)
 Adjusted financial measures exclude certain specified items as described and reconciled to comparable GAAP financial measures in the Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures contained in this press release.
(2)
 Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold. Adjusted gross profit excludes certain specified items, as indicated in the previous footnote.
nm - Percentage change is not meaningful.
 
 
Statistics (as a % of net sales, except for income tax rate):
 
 
(1)
   Adjusted financial measures exclude certain specified items as described and reconciled to comparable GAAP financial measures in the Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures contained in this press release.
(2)
   Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold. Adjusted gross profit excludes certain specified items, as indicated in the previous footnote.
nm - Percentage change is not meaningful.
 
Three months ended June 30, 2011 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
GAAP results for the three months ended June 30, 2011 include:
(A)
    Amortization and impairment of certain intangible assets: $20.0 million reported in Cost of products sold and $1.5 million reported in Restructuring, impairment and (gain) on disposition of assets, net resulting from acquisitions including Mayne Pharma Limited ("Mayne Pharma"), Javelin  Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Javelin Pharma") and a generic injectable business by Hospira Healthcare India Private Limited ("Hospira India").
 
Three months ended June 30, 2010 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Six months ended June 30, 2011 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
 
Six months ended June 30, 2010 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
 The Non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release include comparisons at constant currency rates (reflecting comparative local currency balances at prior period foreign exchange rates), which we define as current period net sales excluding the impact of the change in foreign exchange rates less prior period reported net sales divided by prior period reported net sales. This financial measure provides information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates have not changed between the prior and the current period. Management believes the use of this financial measure aids in the understanding of our change in net sales without the impact of foreign currency. All Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 


