FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20120214080333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02               Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 14, 2012, Hospira, Inc. ("Hospira") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2011.  Such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In the press release, Hospira uses various non-GAAP financial measures including, among others, net sales at constant currency, adjusted gross profit, adjusted income from operations, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share.  These non-GAAP measures adjust for certain specified items that are described in the press release and attached schedules.  Hospira's management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures can facilitate a more complete analysis and greater transparency into Hospira's ongoing results of operations, particularly in comparing underlying results from period to period.  Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally in financial planning to monitor business unit performance and in evaluating management performance.  All non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Feb. 14, 2012  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP),
the world's leading provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies, today reported results for the fourth quarter and full year ended Dec. 31, 2011. For the fourth quarter of 2011, net sales were $1.0 billion, and adjusted* diluted earnings per share were $0.51. For full-year 2011, net sales were $4.1 billion, and adjusted* diluted earnings per share were $3.04. (Adjusted* measures exclude certain specified items as described later in this press release and the attached schedules.)
 
"While 2011 was a challenging year as a result of our quality transformation efforts, we met our revised financial expectations, generating over $4 billion in sales, and advanced our remediation efforts," said F. Michael Ball, chief executive officer. "We made significant progress on many fronts during the year, including the launch in the United States of two important oncolytic products and an anti-infective drug, as well as initiating the Phase III U.S. clinical program for our biosimilar erythropoietin. We remain firmly committed to reinforcing our foundation and instilling a culture of high quality throughout the organization, actions we believe will create a strong competitive advantage for Hospira and position us for sustainable, long-term growth and increased shareholder value."
 
 
Fourth-Quarter 2011 Results
The following table highlights selected financial results for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to the same period in 2010:
 
 
Results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) include items as detailed in the schedules attached to this press release.
 
Net sales increased 2.2 percent to $1.0 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011, compared to $992 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Continued strong net sales of the oncolytic docetaxel in the United States, as well as several other Specialty Injectable Pharmaceutical products, contributed to the increase. Partially
offsetting the growth was the continued impact on net sales of certain quality actions the company undertook to improve the global status of its regulatory compliance, including responding to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) observations and warning letter related to the company's manufacturing facility in Rocky Mount, N.C.
 
Adjusted* income from operations decreased 21.8 percent to $111 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, compared to $142 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. The decrease primarily reflects the impact of charges and costs associated with certain quality actions and inventory losses.
 
Full-Year 2011 Results
The following table highlights selected financial results for the full-year 2011 compared to the same period in 2010:
 
 
Net sales increased 3.6 percent to $4.1 billion for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011.
Strong net sales of Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals were offset by the impact of the pharmaceutical quality-improvement actions and device-quality issues.
 
Adjusted* income from operations decreased 14.7 percent to $669 million for the full year of 2011, compared to $784 million for the full year of 2010. The decline was a result of
certain quality actions and inventory losses, as well as a difficult year-over-year margin contribution comparison, driven by strong margin contribution from U.S. net sales of the oncolytic oxaliplatin in 2010, which were only partially offset by U.S. sales of docetaxel in 2011 due to the joint-venture arrangement related to the production of docetaxel.
 
Cash Flow
Cash flow from operations for the full-year 2011 was $434 million, compared to the $315 million in 2010. The increase is a result of lower investments in working capital, offset by lower net income in 2011. Working capital in 2010 was largely affected by the timing of receivable collections and chargeback payments related to U.S. sales of oxaliplatin. In addition, in 2010 the company made a discretionary contribution to the company's U.S. pension plan.
 
Capital expenditures were $291 million for the full year, compared to $209 million in 2010, with the majority of additional expenditure in 2011 related to the company's capacity expansion initiatives in Vizag, India.
 
2012 Projections
Hospira expects net sales change for full-year 2012 to be in a range of negative 1 percent to positive 2 percent on a constant-currency basis. The company expects foreign exchange to detract from results by a negative
1 percent, based on current exchange rates.
 
Adjusted* diluted earnings per share for 2012 are expected to be in the range of $2.00 to $2.30. The decline relative to the adjusted* diluted earnings per share for 2011 is mainly due to the expected full-year impact of the company's quality-improvement actions as well as increased research and development (R&D) spending in support of the company's global portfolio expansion initiatives. The mid to upper end of the 2012 adjusted* diluted earnings per share projection assumes a gradual improvement in productivity levels at the company's Rocky Mount facility in the second half of the year, as a result of progress related to the company's quality transformation initiatives.
 
The reconciliation between the projected 2012 adjusted* diluted earnings per share and GAAP diluted earnings per share follows:
 
 
The adjusting items are shown net of tax in aggregate of $86 million, which is calculated for the specified adjustments stated above, based on the statutory tax rates in the various tax jurisdictions in which the items are expected to occur.
 
The company projects that cash flow from operations in 2012 will be between $575 million and $625 million. Depreciation and amortization is expected to be between $240 million and $260 million. Capital expenditures are projected to range between $350 million and $400 million.
 
"While resolving the quality-related issues entails challenges in 2012, we believe that the quality-improvement process will make Hospira an even stronger, more competitive global company," said Ball. "We will also continue investing in Hospira's growth opportunities in 2012.  Reinforcing Hospira's foundation and driving growth will best position Hospira to serve the needs of our customers and patients, and deliver strong value to our shareholders."
 
*Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Adjusted measures used in this press release are reconciled to the most comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP in the schedules attached to this release.For more information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, please see Hospira's Current Report on Form 8-K furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
 
Webcast/Complementary Material
Hospira will hold a conference call for investors and media at 8 a.m. Central time on Tuesday, Feb. 14, 2012. A live webcast of the conference call will be available on Hospira's website at www.hospirainvestor.com. Listeners should log on approximately 10 minutes in advance to ensure proper setup for receiving the webcast. In addition, complementary information will be available on the presentations page of the Investor Relations website at the beginning of the conference call. A replay will be available on the Hospira website for 30 days following the call.
 
About Hospira
Hospira, Inc. is the world's leading provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies. Through its broad, integrated portfolio, Hospira is uniquely positioned to Advance Wellness by improving patient and caregiver safety while reducing healthcare costs. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has approximately 15,000 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections of certain measures of Hospira's results of operations; projections of certain charges, expenses, and cash flow; and other statements regarding Hospira's goals, plans and strategy. Hospira cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including adequate and sustained progress on the company's quality initiatives, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory, legal, technological, manufacturing supply, quality and other factors that may affect Hospira's operations and may cause actual results to be materially different from expectations include the risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Hospira's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are incorporated by reference. Hospira undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
 
 
Contacts:
 
 
 
Statistics (as a % of net sales, except for income tax rate):
 
 
(1)
 Adjusted financial measures exclude certain specified items as described and reconciled to comparable GAAP financial measures in the Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures contained in this press release.
(2)
 Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold. Adjusted gross profit excludes certain specified items, as indicated in the previous footnote.
nm - Percentage change is not meaningful.
 
 
Statistics (as a % of net sales, except for income tax rate):
 
 
(1)
 Adjusted financial measures exclude certain specified items as described and reconciled to comparable GAAP financial measures in the Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures contained in this press release.
(2)
 Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold. Adjusted gross profit excludes certain specified items, as indicated in the previous footnote.
nm - Percentage change is not meaningful.
 
Three months ended December 31, 2011 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
 
Three months ended December 31, 2010 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended December 31, 2011 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
 
Year ended December 31, 2010 Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
     
The Non-GAAP financial measures contained in this press release include comparisons at constant currency rates (reflecting comparative local currency balances at prior period foreign exchange rates), which we define as current period net sales excluding the impact of the change in foreign exchange rates less prior period reported net sales divided by prior period reported net sales. This financial measure provides information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates have not changed between the prior and the current period. Management believes the use of this financial measure aids in the understanding of our change in net sales without the impact of foreign currency. All Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP measures and should not be considered in isolation from, or a replacement for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 


