FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20120131170024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On January 27, 2012, Ron Squarer left Hospira, Inc. (the "Company") as its Senior Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer to pursue other opportunities.
 
 
On January 30, 2012, the Company announced that Richard Davies will join the Company as its Senior Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer, effective February 2, 2012. The press release announcing this appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., Jan. 30, 2012  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), the world's leading provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies, today announced that Richard Davies has been named senior vice president and chief commercial officer. In this role, he will be responsible for developing and executing Hospira's global commercial strategies and delivering profitable revenue growth across the company's product portfolio. Mr. Davies will join Hospira Feb. 2 and serve as a member of Hospira's senior leadership team, reporting to F. Michael Ball, chief executive officer.
 
"From catalyzing growth in well-established products to architecting bold new strategies for emerging markets, Richard has a track record of unparalleled success in the healthcare industry," said Mr. Ball. "He is an accomplished and dynamic global commercial executive, and we expect to leverage his deep expertise to advance our leadership positions worldwide by executing customer-centric strategies and an aggressive portfolio expansion initiative."
 
Mr. Davies, 50, brings to Hospira more than 20 years of diverse strategic and operational experience gained through a variety of commercial management positions and across a range of products and technologies. Most recently, he served as vice president and general manager, Japan, Asia Pacific and Latin America, for Amgen, where he was responsible for establishing Amgen's business in the region as well as supporting its strategy development for emerging markets overall. During his eight years at Amgen, he led the company's commercial organizations in Central/Eastern Europe and Australia, and also served as vice president of U.S. sales for the immunology franchise. Prior to joining Amgen, Mr. Davies spent 13 years at Eli Lilly and Company in increasing roles of commercial responsibility, including general country management.
 
 
 
 
Born and educated in the United Kingdom, Mr. Davies earned his bachelor's degree in applied chemistry from the University of Portsmouth and his master of business administration degree from the University of Warwick.
 
About Hospira
Hospira, Inc. is the world's leading provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies. Through its broad, integrated portfolio, Hospira is uniquely positioned to Advance Wellness by improving patient and caregiver safety while reducing healthcare costs. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has approximately 14,000 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
 
 
 


