FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20120413123715.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02   Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On April 9, 2012, Mr. John B. Elliot was appointed as senior vice president, operations, of Hospira, Inc. (the "Company"), effective April 16, 2012. The Company's appointment of Mr. Elliot was announced in a press release, dated April 11, 2012, attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Mr. Elliot,age 60, previously served as a consultant with Pharma Associates, Ltd.  He also served as the President and Chairman of Cherokee Pharmaceuticals LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of PRWT Services, Inc. from 2007 to 2010.  Mr. Elliot also served as the Senior Vice President, Primary Supply and Antibiotics at GlaxoSmithKline from 2002 to 2007.
 
Mr. Elliot's base salary will be $450,000, and he will be eligible for an annual incentive award targeted at 70% of base salary. Mr. Elliot will also receive a restricted stock grant valued at $350,000 on June 29, 2012, with the number of restricted shares based on the Company's stock price on that date, and with such restricted stock vesting on December 31, 2013.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
99.1
                                                  
Press Release, dated April 11, 2012
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., April 11, 2012  , the world's leading provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies, today announced that John B. Elliot has been named senior vice president, Operations, effective April 16. In this role, Mr. Elliot will have overall responsibility for Hospira's global operations organization and serve as a member of Hospira's senior leadership team. He will report directly to F. Michael Ball, chief executive officer.
Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP)
 
"John is a seasoned global leader with more than 35 years of broad manufacturing experience across production, logistics and supply, and specific expertise in injectable pharmaceuticals," said Mr. Ball. "With his proven track record in driving improvements in quality, service and operational effectiveness, we're confident John will have an immediate, positive impact as we continue our efforts to deliver high-quality, cost-effective products to customers and ultimately establish our manufacturing operations as a strategic, competitive advantage."
 
Mr. Elliot, 60, has most recently advised some of the world's largest pharmaceutical companies in his role as an operations consultant. He previously served as president and chairman at Cherokee Pharmaceuticals, LLC (subsequently acquired by Merck & Co.), a U.S.-based active ingredients manufacturing company, where he led the organization from start-up to become a significant competitor in the contract manufacturing marketplace. Prior to Cherokee, Mr. Elliot spent 26 years with GlaxoSmithKline plc (formerly SmithKline Beecham), most recently serving as senior vice president. During his tenure, he held various roles of progressive responsibility in the operations organization and was credited for inculcating a high-performance culture across his plant network.
 
 
 
Under Mr. Elliot's leadership, Hospira will advance its plant remediation strategies and create additional manufacturing capacity, including the construction of a new 1.1 million square-foot, state-of-the-art facility in India. Mr. Elliot joins an operations leadership team that has recently been strengthened by the addition of top industry talent, including the appointment of in February.
Zena G. Kaufman as Hospira's new senior vice president of Quality
 
Born and educated in Scotland, Mr. Elliot earned his bachelor's degree, with honors, in chemical engineering from Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh.
 
About Hospira
 
Hospira, Inc. is the world's leading provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies. Through its broad, integrated portfolio, Hospira is uniquely positioned to Advance Wellness by improving patient and caregiver safety while reducing healthcare costs. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has approximately 15,000 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
 


