FILE:HSP/HSP-8K-20120731155518.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On July 25, 2012, Dennis M. Fenton was elected to Hospira's board of directors as a Class III director with a term expiring at the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders.  Dr. Fenton will serve on the board's audit committee and science, technology and quality committee.  The press release announcing the election of Dr. Fenton to the board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.  Dr. Fenton will receive the standard non-employee director compensation for serving on the board.  For a description of that compensation, please see Hospira's 2012 Proxy Statement, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 23, 2012.
 
 
(d)
                          
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned  hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
LAKE FOREST, Ill., July 31, 2012  Hospira, Inc. (NYSE: HSP), the world's leading provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies, today announced that Dennis M. Fenton, Ph.D.,  has been elected to the company's board of directors. Dr. Fenton, a recognized manufacturing and biologics expert, has more than 30 years of healthcare industry experience. The addition of Dr. Fenton expands Hospira's board to 11 directors, 10 of whom are independent.
 
"We are excited to welcome Dennis to Hospira's board of directors," said John C. Staley, chairman of the board. "His impressive track record of results-oriented leadership and pioneering contributions to biological manufacturing and operations quality make him an excellent fit."
 
F. Michael Ball, chief executive officer, added, "Dennis brings unparalleled experience in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology space, with differentiated expertise that spans manufacturing and quality overall, and biologics in particular. His appointment supports Hospira's commitment to establish manufacturing as a competitive advantage."
 
Dr. Fenton, 60, spent more than two decades at Amgen, where he served as one of the company's longest-tenured employees and its executive vice president of Operations until his retirement in 2008. Prior to Amgen, Dr. Fenton served as a senior research scientist at Pfizer.
 
Dr. Fenton is a member of the Society for Industrial Microbiology, held previous memberships in the American Chemical Society, the American Society for Microbiology and the Parenteral Drug Association, and was a director of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) and National Health Foundation. He currently serves on the boards of Dendreon Corporation, Napo Pharmaceuticals, Genelux Corporation, Xenoport and Kythera Biopharmaceuticals; and is a trustee of the Keck Graduate Institute and Rutgers University. A native of New York, Dr. Fenton holds a Bachelor of Science degree in biology from Manhattan College and a doctorate in microbiology from Rutgers University.
 
About Hospira
Hospira, Inc. is the world's leading provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies. Through its broad, integrated portfolio, Hospira is uniquely positioned to Advance Wellness by improving patient and caregiver safety while reducing healthcare costs. The company is headquartered in Lake Forest, Ill., and has approximately 15,000 employees. Learn more at www.hospira.com.
 
 


