FILE:SAI/SAI-8K-20070614141101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan was initially adopted by our Board of Directors in November 2005 and approved by our stockholders in September 2006. In March 2007, our Board of Directors recommended that the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, along with certain proposed amendments to the Plan (the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan as proposed to be amended, the "Plan"), be submitted to our stockholders for their approval. In order that we may be able to continue to deduct certain items of compensation paid to certain of our executive officers for federal income tax purposes, certain terms and provisions of the Plan under which we provide "performance-based compensation" were also submitted for stockholder approval. At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on June 8, 2007, our stockholders approved the material terms of and amendments to the Plan.
The Plan provides for the grant to our employees, directors, and consultants of stock options, stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), stock awards (including restricted stock, restricted stock units, deferred stock, performance shares and other similar types of awards, including other awards under which recipients are not required to pay any purchase or exercise price, such as phantom stock rights) and cash awards designed to comply with certain federal tax rules. All equity awards granted under the Plan will be granted with respect to shares of our common stock and/or class A preferred stock.
Among other things, the Plan was amended by:
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing description of the amendments to the Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the description of the Plan set forth under the caption "Proposal IV-Approval of Material Terms of and Certain Amendments to our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan" in the Company's 2007 Proxy Statement, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 1, 2007 and by the full text of the Plan filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report, both of which are incorporated into this Current Report by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
The purpose of this 2006 Equity Incentive Plan is to enhance the long-term stockholder value of SAIC, Inc. and its affiliated companies by offering opportunities to eligible individuals to participate in the growth in value of the equity of SAIC, Inc.
 
2.1 .
Definitions
This Plan uses the following defined terms:
(a) "" means the Board or the Committee, or any officer or Employee of the Company to whom the Board or the Committee delegates authority to administer this Plan.
Administrator
(b) "" means a "parent" or "subsidiary" (as each is defined in Section 424 of the Code) of the Company and any other entity that the Board or Committee designates as an "Affiliate" for purposes of this Plan.
Affiliate
(c) "" means any and all laws of whatever jurisdiction, within or without the United States, and the rules of any stock exchange or quotation system on which Shares are listed or quoted, applicable to the taking or refraining from taking of any action under this Plan, including the administration of this Plan and the issuance or transfer of Awards or Award Shares.
Applicable Law
(d) "" means a Stock Award, SAR, Cash Award, or Option granted in accordance with the terms of this Plan.
Award
(e) "" means the document, which may be in paper or electronic form, evidencing the grant of an Award and its terms and conditions.
Award Agreement
(f) "" means Shares covered by an outstanding Award or purchased under an Award.
Award Shares
(g) "" means: (i) a person to whom an Award has been granted, including a holder of a Substitute Award or (ii) a person to whom an Award has been transferred in accordance with all applicable requirements of Sections 6.5, 7(h), 8.1(c), 8.2(d) and 17.
Awardee
(h) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(i) "" means the right to receive cash as described in Section 8.3.
Cash Award
(j) "" means employment related dishonesty, fraud, misconduct or disclosure or misuse of confidential information, or other employment related conduct that is likely to cause significant injury to the Company, an Affiliate, or any of their respective employees, officers or directors (including, without limitation, commission of a felony or similar offense), in each case as determined by the Administrator. "Cause" shall not require that a civil judgment or criminal conviction has been entered against or guilty plea shall have been made by the Awardee regarding any of the matters referred to in the previous sentence. Accordingly, the Administrator shall be entitled to determine "Cause" based on the Administrator's good faith belief. If the Awardee is criminally charged with a felony or similar offense that shall be a sufficient, but not a necessary, basis for such belief.
Cause
(k) "" means any transaction or event that the Board specifies as a Change in Control under Section 10.4.
Change in Control
(l) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
(m) "" means a committee or subcommittee of the Board of Directors of the Company composed of one or more Company Directors appointed in accordance with the Company's charter documents and Section 4. As referenced in Section 4.1(a), from time to time throughout this Plan, the term "Committee" is used to refer to both the Board and the Committee.
Committee
(n) "" means SAIC, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
(o) "" means a member of the Board.
Company Director
(p) "" means an individual who, or an employee of any entity that, provides bona fide services to the Company or an Affiliate not in connection with the offer or sale of securities in a capital-raising transaction, but who is not an Employee.
Consultant
(q) "" means a member of the Board of Directors of the Company or an Affiliate.
Director
(r) "" means any transaction or event that the Board or the Committee specifies as a Divestiture under Section 10.6.
Divestiture
(s) "" means October 16, 2006.
Effective Date
(t) "" means a regular employee of the Company or an Affiliate, including an officer or Director, who is treated as an employee in the personnel records of the Company or an Affiliate, but not individuals who are classified by the Company or an Affiliate as: (i) leased from or otherwise employed by a third party, (ii) independent contractors, or (iii) intermittent or temporary workers. The Company's or an Affiliate's classification of an individual as an "Employee" (or as not an "Employee") for purposes of this Plan shall not be altered retroactively even if that classification is changed retroactively for another purpose as a result of an audit, litigation or otherwise. An Awardee shall not cease to be an Employee due to transfers between locations of the Company, or between the Company and an Affiliate, or to any successor to the Company or an Affiliate that assumes the Awardee's Options under Section 10. Neither service as a Director nor receipt of a director's fee shall be sufficient to make a Director an "Employee."
Employee
(u) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
(v) "" means, if the Company has any class of any equity security registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, an individual who is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act or who is a "covered employee" under Section 162(m) of the Code, in either case because of the individual's relationship with the Company or an Affiliate. If the Company does not have any class of any equity security registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, "Executive" means any (i) Director, (ii) officer elected or appointed by the Board, or (iii) beneficial owner of more than 10% of any class of the Company's equity securities.
Executive
(w) "" means, with respect to an Award, the date stated in the Award Agreement as the expiration date of the Award or, if no such date is stated in the Award Agreement, then the last day of the exercise period for the Award, disregarding the effect of an Awardee's Termination or any other event that would shorten that period.
Expiration Date
(x) "" means the value of a share of the stock of Company as determined under Section 18.2.
Fair Market Value
(y) "" means any transaction or event described in Section 10.3.
Fundamental Transaction
(z) "" means (i) a material diminution in responsibility or compensation, or (ii) requiring Awardee to work in a location (other than normal business travel) which is more than 50 miles from Awardee's place of employment before the change.
Good Reason
(aa) "" means the date the Administrator approves the grant of an Award. However, if the Administrator specifies that an Award's Grant Date is a future date or the date on which a condition is satisfied, the Grant Date for such Award is that future date or the date that the condition is satisfied.
Grant Date
(bb) "" means an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Code and designated as an Incentive Stock Option in the Award Agreement for that Option.
Incentive Stock Option
(cc) "" means termination by the Company or an Affiliate, as applicable, without Cause or termination by the Awardee for Good Reason.
Involuntary Termination
(dd) "" means any Option other than an Incentive Stock Option
Nonstatutory Option
(ee) "" shall mean a performance condition (i) that is established (A) at the time an Award is granted or (B) no later than the earlier of (1) 90 days after the beginning of the period of service to which it relates, or (2) before the elapse of 25% of the period of service to which it relates, (ii) that is uncertain of achievement at the time it is established, and (iii) the achievement of which is determinable by a third party with knowledge of the relevant facts. Measures that may be used in Objectively Determinable Performance Conditions are: net revenue dollars; revenue growth; earnings per share; return on assets; return on equity; net order dollars; net profit dollars; net profit growth; operating cash flow; operating income; number of contract bookings; number of contract awards; profits before tax; return on investment capital; days working capital; objective customer satisfaction indicators, efficiency measures and individual performance goals; and other similar objectives, each with respect to the Company and/or an Affiliate or individual business unit.
Objectively Determinable Performance Condition
(ff) "" means an officer of the Company as defined in Rule 16a-1 adopted under the Exchange Act.
Officer
(gg) "" means a right to purchase Shares of the Company granted under this Plan.
Option
(hh) "" means the price payable under an Option for Shares, not including any amount payable in respect of withholding or other taxes.
Option Price
(ii) "" means Shares covered by an outstanding Option or purchased under an Option.
Option Shares
(jj) "" means this 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended.
Plan
(kk) "" mean the Science Application International Corporation 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, 1998 Stock Option Plan and 1984 Bonus Compensation Plan.
Prior Plans
(ll) "" means the price payable under a Stock Award for Shares, not including any amount payable in respect of withholding or other taxes.
Purchase Price
(mm) "" means a "qualified domestic relations order" as defined in, and otherwise meeting the requirements of, Section 414(p) of the Code, except that reference to a "plan" in that definition shall be to this Plan.
Qualified Domestic Relations Order
(nn) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.2(d).
Restricted Stock Award
(oo) "" means Rule 16b-3 adopted under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
Rule 16b-3
(pp) "" or "" means a right to receive cash and/or Shares based on a change in the Fair Market Value of a specific number of Shares pursuant to an Award Agreement, as described in Section 8.1.
SAR
Stock Appreciation Right
(qq) "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
(rr) "" means a share of the Class A Preferred Stock or Common Stock of the Company, as determined by the Board or Committee, or other securities substituted for the Class A Preferred Stock or Common Stock under Section 10.
Share
(ss) "" means an offer by the Company to sell or issue shares subject to certain restrictions pursuant to the Award Agreement as described in Section 8.2 or, as determined by the Board or Committee, a
Stock Award
notional account representing the right to be paid an amount based on Shares. Types of Awards which may be granted as Stock Awards include such awards as are commonly known as restricted stock, deferred stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, phantom stock or similar types of awards as determined by the Administrator.
(tt) "" means a Substitute Option, Substitute SAR or Substitute Stock Award granted in accordance with the terms of this Plan.
Substitute Award
(uu) "" means an Option granted in substitution for, or upon the conversion of, an option granted by another entity to purchase equity securities in the granting entity.
Substitute Option
(vv) "" means a SAR granted in substitution for, or upon the conversion of, a stock appreciation right granted by another entity with respect to equity securities in the granting entity.
Substitute SAR
(ww) "" means a Stock Award granted in substitution for, or upon the conversion of, a stock award granted by another entity to purchase equity securities in the granting entity.
Substitute Stock Award
(xx) "" is any person who, directly or by attribution under Section 424(d) of the Code, owns stock possessing more than ten percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of any Affiliate on the Grant Date.
Ten Percent Stockholder
(yy) "" means that the Awardee has ceased to be, with or without any cause or reason, an Employee, Director or Consultant. However, unless so determined by the Administrator, or otherwise provided in this Plan, "Termination" shall not include a change in status from an Employee, Consultant or Director to another such status. An event that causes an Affiliate to cease being an Affiliate shall be treated as the "Termination" of that Affiliate's Employees, Directors, and Consultants.
Termination
2.2 . Any reference to a "Section," without more, is to a Section of this Plan. Captions and titles are used for convenience in this Plan and shall not, by themselves, determine the meaning of this Plan. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular includes the plural and vice versa. Any reference to a statute is also a reference to the applicable rules and regulations adopted under that statute. Any reference to a statute, rule or regulation, or to a section of a statute, rule or regulation, is a reference to that statute, rule, regulation, or section as amended from time to time, both before and after the Effective Date and including any successor provisions.
Rules of Interpretation
3.1 . The Shares issuable under this Plan shall be authorized but unissued or reacquired Shares, including Shares repurchased by the Company on the open market. The number of Shares initially available for issuance over the term of this Plan shall be 75,000,000 (subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 10.2). Except as required by Applicable Law, Shares subject to an outstanding Award shall not reduce the number of Shares available for issuance under this Plan until the earlier of the date such Shares are vested pursuant to the terms of the applicable Award or the actual date of delivery of the Shares to the Awardee. Those Shares (i) that are issued under the Plan that are forfeited or repurchased by the Company at the original purchase price or less or that are issuable upon exercise of awards granted under the Plan that expire or become unexercisable for any reason after their Grant Date without having been exercised in full, (ii) that are withheld from an Option or Stock Award pursuant to a Company-approved "net exercise" provision, including (without limitation) pursuant to Section 6.4(b), (iii) that are retained upon exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right pursuant to Section 8.1(b), or (iv) that are not delivered to or are Award Shares surrendered by a holder in consideration for applicable tax withholding will continue to be available for issuance under this Plan. The repurchase of Shares by the Company shall not increase the maximum number of Shares that may be issued under this Plan to the extent the Company repurchases Shares that were originally acquired or purchased with other previously owned Shares. The maximum number of Shares shall be cumulatively increased on February 1, 2007, after the Effective Date and each February 1 thereafter for nine more years, by the least of: (i) a number of Shares determined by the Committee; (ii) 30,000,000 Shares (subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 10.2), or (iii) 5% of the Company's outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the preceding January 31 (measured on an as-converted basis with respect to outstanding shares of Class A Preferred Stock).
Number of Award Shares
3.2 . Award Shares may be: (a) Shares that have never been issued, (b) Shares that have been issued but are no longer outstanding, or (c) Shares that are outstanding and are acquired to discharge the Company's obligation to deliver Award Shares.
Source of Shares
3.3 .
Term of this Plan
(a) This Plan shall become effective on the Effective Date (with any amendments to the Plan being effective on and after the date thereof), and Awards may be granted under this Plan on and after, the Effective Date. Upon effectiveness of this Plan, no additional awards will be made under the Prior Plans.
(b) Subject to the provisions of Section 14, Awards may be granted under this Plan until October 15, 2016.
4.1 .
General
(a) The Board shall have ultimate responsibility for administering this Plan. To the extent permitted by Applicable Law, the Board may delegate certain of its responsibilities to a Committee. In addition, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, the Board or the Committee may further delegate its responsibilities to any Employee of the Company or any Affiliate. Where this Plan specifies that an action must be taken or a determination made by the Committee, only the Board or the Committee may take that action or make that determination; that Section 5.2 includes reference to actions that only the Committee may perform. Where this Plan references the "Administrator," the action may be taken or determination made by the Board, the Committee, or other administrator to whom the Board or Committee has delegated specified powers, including those powers set forth in Section 4.2. However, only the Board or a Committee consisting solely of independent directors as defined in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines may approve grants of Awards to Executives, and an Administrator other than the Board or the Committee may grant Awards only within the guidelines established by the Board or Committee. Moreover, all actions and determinations by any Administrator are subject to the provisions of this Plan.
provided
(b) So long as the Company has registered and outstanding a class of equity securities under Section 12 of the Exchange Act and to the extent necessary or helpful to comply with Applicable Law with respect to officers subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act and/or others, a Committee shall consist of two or more Company Directors who are "Non-Employee Directors" as defined in Rule 16b-3 and who are "outside directors" as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code.
4.2 . Subject to the other provisions of this Plan, the Board or the Committee shall have the authority to:
Authority of the Board or the Committee
(a) grant Awards, including Substitute Awards;
(b) determine the Fair Market Value of Shares;
(c) determine the Option Price and the Purchase Price of Awards;
(d) select the Awardees;
(e) determine the times Awards are granted;
(f) determine the number of Shares subject to each Award;
(g) determine the type of Shares subject to each Award;
(h) determine the methods of payment that may be used to purchase Award Shares;
(i) determine the methods of payment that may be used to satisfy withholding tax obligations;
(j) determine the other terms of each Award, including but not limited to the time or times at which Awards may be exercised, whether and under what conditions an Award is assignable, whether an Option is a Nonstatutory Option or an Incentive Stock Option and automatic cancellation of the Award if certain objective requirements determined by the Administration are not met;
(k) modify or amend any Award;
(l) authorize any person to sign any Award Agreement or other document related to this Plan on behalf of the Company;
(m) determine the form of any Award Agreement or other document related to this Plan, and whether that document, including signatures, may be in electronic form;
(n) interpret this Plan and any Award Agreement or document related to this Plan;
(o) correct any defect, remedy any omission, or reconcile any inconsistency in this Plan, any Award Agreement or any other document related to this Plan;
(p) adopt, amend, and revoke rules and regulations under this Plan, including rules and regulations relating to sub-plans and Plan addenda;
(q) adopt, amend, and revoke special rules and procedures which may be inconsistent with the terms of this Plan, set forth (if the Administrator so chooses) in sub-plans regarding (for example) the operation and administration of this Plan and the terms of Awards, if and to the extent necessary or useful to accommodate non-U.S. Applicable Laws and practices as they apply to Awards and Award Shares held by, or granted or issued to, persons working or resident outside of the United States or employed by Affiliates incorporated outside the United States;
(r) determine whether a transaction or event should be treated as a Change in Control, a Divestiture or neither;
(s) determine the effect of a Fundamental Transaction and, if the Board determines that a transaction or event should be treated as a Change in Control or a Divestiture, then the effect of that Change in Control or Divestiture;
(t) appoint such additional administrators as are necessary to perform various administrative acts and determine the duties of such administrators; and
(u) make all other determinations the Administrator deems necessary or advisable for the administration of this Plan.
4.3 . Subject to the provisions of this Section 4.3, on all matters for which this Plan confers the authority, right or power on the Board, the Committee, or other Administrator to make decisions, that body may make those decisions in its sole and absolute discretion. Those decisions will be final, binding and conclusive. In making its decisions, the Board, Committee or other Administrator need not treat all persons eligible to receive Awards, all Awardees, all Awards or all Award Shares the same way. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, and except as provided in Section 14.3, the discretion of the Board, Committee or other Administrator is subject to the specific provisions and specific limitations of this Plan, as well as all rights conferred on specific Awardees by Award Agreements and other agreements.
Scope of Discretion
 
5.1 . Awards (including Substitute Awards) may be granted to, and only to, Employees, Directors and Consultants, including to prospective Employees, Directors and Consultants conditioned on the beginning of their service for the Company or an Affiliate. However, Incentive Stock Options may only be granted to Employees, as provided in Section 7(g).
Eligible Individuals
5.2 .
Section 162(m) Limitation
(a) . Subject to the provisions of this Section 5.2, for so long as the Company is a "publicly held corporation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code: (i) no Employee may be granted within any fiscal year of the Company under this Plan Options to purchase, and SARs to receive compensation calculated with reference to, more than an aggregate of 3,000,000 Shares, subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 10 and considered without regard to any number of Stock Awards or the dollar amount of any Cash Awards that may have been granted or awarded to
Options and SARs
such Employee during the applicable fiscal year, and (ii) with respect to any Option or SAR that is granted with the intent of having it qualify as "qualified performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m), Options and SARs may be granted to an Executive only by the Committee (and, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 4.1(a), not by the Board). If an Option or SAR is cancelled without being exercised, that cancelled Option or SAR shall continue to be counted against the limit on Awards that may be granted to any individual under this Section 5.2(a).
(b) . Subject to the provisions of this Section 5.2, so long as the Company is a "publicly held corporation" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m): (i) no Employee may be granted one or more Stock Awards within any single fiscal year of the Company to purchase more than 2,000,000 Shares, subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 10 and considered without regard to any number of Option or SAR Shares or the dollar amount of any Cash Awards that may have been granted or awarded to such Employee during the applicable fiscal year, and (ii) no Employee may be granted one or more Cash Awards within a single fiscal year of the Company having an aggregate amount of more than $5,000,000, considered without regard to any number of Options, SARs or Stock Awards that may have been granted or awarded to such Employee during the applicable fiscal year. With respect to any Stock Award or Cash Award that is granted with the intent of having it qualify as "qualified performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m), such Awards may be granted to an Executive only by the Committee (and, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 4.1(a), not by the Board).
Cash Awards and Other Stock Awards
(c) Any Cash Award or Stock Award intended as "qualified performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code must be awarded, vest or become exercisable contingent on the achievement of one or more Objectively Determinable Performance Conditions. The Committee shall have the discretion to determine the time and manner of compliance with Section 162(m) of the Code.
(d) Nothing in this Section 5.2 shall prevent the Committee from making any type of Award authorized for grant under this Plan outside of this Plan. In addition, nothing in this Section 5.2 shall prevent the Committee from granting Awards under this Plan that are not intended to qualify as "qualified performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m).
(e) Notwithstanding satisfaction, achievement or completion of any Objectively Determinable Performance Conditions, that may be specified at
the time of grant of an Award to a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the number of Awards, Shares, or other benefits granted, issued, retainable and/or vested under an Award on account of satisfaction of such Objectively Determinable Performance Condition(s) may be reduced by the Committee on the basis of such further considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine.
 
Options will be evidenced by an Award Agreement. In addition, the following rules apply to all Options:
6.1 . No Option may have an Option Price less than the Fair Market Value of the underlying Share on the Grant Date.
Price
6.2 . No Option shall be exercisable after its Expiration Date. No Option may have an Expiration Date that is more than ten years after its Grant Date. Additional provisions regarding the term of Incentive Stock Options are provided in Sections 7(a) and 7(e).
Term
6.3 . Options shall be exercisable: (a) on the Grant Date, or (b) in accordance with a schedule related to the Grant Date, the date the Awardee's directorship, employment or consultancy begins, or a different date specified in the Award Agreement. Additional provisions regarding the vesting of Incentive Stock Options are provided in Section 7(c). No Option granted to an individual who is subject to the overtime pay provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act may be exercised before the expiration of six months after the Grant Date.
Vesting
6.4 .
Form and Method of Payment
(a) In accordance with Section 4.2, the Administrator shall have the authority to determine the acceptable form and method of payment for exercising an Option. Acceptable forms of payment that the Administrator may permit with respect to the exercise of Options include:
(i) cash, check or wire transfer, denominated in U.S. dollars except as specified by the Administrator for non-U.S. Employees or non-U.S. sub-plans;
(ii) other shares of stock of the Company, or the designation of other shares of stock of the Company, which have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender greater than or equal to the Option Price of the Shares as to which the Option is being exercised;
(iii) provided that a public market exists for the Common Stock, consideration received by the Company under a procedure under which a licensed broker-dealer advances funds on behalf of an Awardee or sells shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Option Shares on behalf of an Awardee (a "Cashless Exercise Procedure"), provided that if the Company extends or arranges for the extension of credit to an Awardee under any Cashless Exercise Procedure, no Officer or Director may participate in that Cashless Exercise Procedure;
(iv) cancellation of any debt owed by the Company or any Affiliate to the Awardee by the Company (including, without limitation, waiver of compensation due or accrued for services previously rendered to the Company);
(v) payment pursuant to any "cashless net exercise" procedures approved by the Committee; provided that the difference between the full number of Shares covered by the exercised portion of the Award and the number of Shares actually delivered shall be restored to the amount of Shares reserved for issuance under Section 3.1; and
(vi) any combination of the methods of payment permitted by any paragraph of this Section 6.4(a).
The Committee may also permit any other form or method of payment for Option Shares permitted by Applicable Law. In making its determination as to the type of consideration to accept, the Administrator shall consider if acceptance of such consideration may be reasonably expected to benefit the Company and the Administrator may, in its sole discretion, refuse to accept a particular form of consideration at the time of any Option exercise.
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing Section 6.4(a), the Committee may require the delivery in Shares for the value of the net appreciation of the Shares at the time of exercise over the exercise price. The difference between the full number of Shares covered by the exercised portion of the Award and the number of Shares actually delivered shall be restored to the amount of Shares reserved for issuance under Section 3.1.
6.5 . Except as otherwise determined by the Administrator and subject to Section 17, no Option shall be assignable or otherwise transferable by the Awardee. Incentive Stock Options may only be assigned in compliance with Section 7(h).
Nonassignability of Options
6.6 . The Committee may cause the Company to grant Substitute Options in connection with the acquisition by the Company or an Affiliate of
Substitute Options
equity securities of any entity (including by merger, tender offer, or other similar transaction) or of all or a portion of the assets of any entity. Any such substitution shall be effective on the effective date of the acquisition. Substitute Options may be Nonstatutory Options or Incentive Stock Options. Unless and to the extent specified otherwise by the Committee, Substitute Options shall have the same terms and conditions as the options they replace, except that (subject to the provisions of Section 10) Substitute Options shall be Options to purchase Shares rather than equity securities of the granting entity, shall have an Option Price determined by the Committee and shall be on terms that, as determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion, properly reflect the substitution.
6.7 . Subject to Section 14.3, the Committee may cancel and regrant or otherwise adjust the exercise price of Options previously granted under the Plan without the approval of the Company's stockholders, provided that the Committee may not reprice, reduce the exercise price of or make similar adjustments with the effect of lowering the exercise price of Options previously granted under the Plan without the approval of the Company's stockholders other than in connection with a change in the Company's capitalization pursuant to Section 10 of the Plan.
Certain Adjustments to Exercise Prices
 
The following rules apply only to Incentive Stock Options and only to the extent these rules are more restrictive than the rules that would otherwise apply under this Plan. With the consent of the Awardee, or where this Plan provides that an action may be taken notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, the Administrator may deviate from the requirements of this Section, notwithstanding that any Incentive Stock Option modified by the Administrator will thereafter be treated as a Nonstatutory Option.
(a) The Expiration Date of an Incentive Stock Option shall not be later than ten years from its Grant Date, with the result that no Incentive Stock Option may be exercised after the expiration of ten years from its Grant Date.
(b) No Incentive Stock Option may be granted after October 15, 2016.
(c) Options intended to be incentive stock options under Section 422 of the Code that are granted to any single Awardee under all incentive stock option plans of the Company and its Affiliates, including incentive stock options granted under this Plan, may not vest at a rate of more than $100,000 in Fair Market Value of stock (measured on the grant dates of the options) during any calendar year. For this purpose, an option vests with respect to a given share of stock the first time its holder may purchase that share, notwithstanding any right of the Company to repurchase that share.
Unless the administrator of that option plan specifies otherwise in the related agreement governing the option, this vesting limitation shall be applied by, to the extent necessary to satisfy this $100,000 rule, treating certain stock options that were intended to be incentive stock options under Section 422 of the Code as Nonstatutory Options. The stock options or portions of stock options to be reclassified as Nonstatutory Options are those with the highest option prices, whether granted under this Plan or any other equity compensation plan of the Company or any Affiliate that permits that treatment. This Section 7(c) shall not cause an Incentive Stock Option to vest before its original vesting date or cause an Incentive Stock Option that has already vested to cease to be vested.
(d) In order for an Incentive Stock Option to be exercised for any form of payment other than those described in Section 6.4(a), that right must be stated at the time of grant in the Award Agreement relating to that Incentive Stock Option; provided that Section 6.4(b) shall apply to all Options from the Grant Date thereof.
(e) Any Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder, must have an Expiration Date that is not later than five years from its Grant Date, with the result that no such Option may be exercised after the expiration of five years from the Grant Date.
(f) The Option Price of an Incentive Stock Option shall never be less than the Fair Market Value of the Shares at the Grant Date. The Option Price for the Shares covered by an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder shall never be less than 110% of the Fair Market Value of the Shares at the Grant Date.
(g) Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Employees. If an Awardee changes status from an Employee to a Consultant, that Awardee's Incentive Stock Options become Nonstatutory Options if not exercised within the time period described in Section 7(i) (determined by treating that change in status as a Termination solely for purposes of this Section 7(g)).
(h) No rights under an Incentive Stock Option may be transferred by the Awardee, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. During the life of the Awardee, an Incentive Stock Option may be exercised only by the Awardee. The Company's compliance with a Qualified Domestic Relations Order, or the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option by a guardian or conservator appointed to act for the Awardee, shall not violate this Section 7(h).
(i) An Incentive Stock Option shall be treated as a Nonstatutory Option if it remains exercisable after, and is not exercised within, the three-month period beginning with the Awardee's Termination for any reason other than the Awardee's death or disability (as defined in Section 22(e) of the Code). In the case of Termination due to death, an Incentive Stock Option shall continue to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option if it remains exercisable after, and is not exercised within, the three month period after the Awardee's Termination provided it is exercised before the Expiration Date. In the case of Termination due to disability, an Incentive Stock Option shall be treated as a Nonstatutory Option if it remains exercisable after, and is not exercised within, one year after the Awardee's Termination.
(j) An Incentive Stock Option may only be modified by the Committee.
 
8.1 . The following rules apply to SARs:
Stock Appreciation Rights
(a) . SARs may be granted either alone, in addition to, or in tandem with other Awards granted under this Plan. The Administrator may grant SARs to eligible participants subject to terms and conditions not inconsistent with this Plan and determined by the Administrator. The specific terms and conditions applicable to the Awardee shall be provided for in the Award Agreement. SARs shall be exercisable, in whole or in part, at such times as the Administrator shall specify in the Award Agreement. The grant or vesting of a SAR may be made contingent on the achievement of Objectively Determinable Performance Conditions.
General
(b) . Upon the exercise of an SAR, in whole or in part, an Awardee shall be entitled to a payment in an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of a fixed number of Shares covered by the exercised portion of the SAR on the date of exercise, over the Fair Market Value of the Shares covered by the exercised portion of the SAR on the Grant Date. The amount due to the Awardee upon the exercise of a SAR shall be paid in cash, Shares or a combination thereof as, and over the period or periods specified, in the Award Agreement. An Award Agreement may place limits on the amount that may be paid over any specified period or periods upon the exercise of a SAR, on an aggregate basis or as to any Awardee. Subject to Section 9.2, a SAR shall be considered exercised when the Company receives written notice of exercise in accordance with the terms of the Award Agreement from the person entitled to exercise the SAR. If a SAR has been granted in tandem with an Option, upon the exercise of the SAR, the number of Shares that may be purchased pursuant to the Option shall be reduced by the number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised.
Exercise of SARs
(c) . Except as determined by the Administrator and subject to Section 17, no SAR shall be assignable or otherwise transferable by the Awardee.
Nonassignability of SARs
(d) . The Committee may cause the Company to grant Substitute SARs in connection with the acquisition by the Company or an Affiliate of equity securities of any entity (including by merger, tender offer, or other similar transaction) or of all or a portion of the assets of any entity. Any such substitution shall be effective on the effective date of the acquisition. Unless and to the extent specified otherwise by the Committee, Substitute SARs shall have the same terms and conditions as the SARs they replace, except that (subject to the provisions of Section 10) Substitute SARs shall be exercisable for Shares rather than equity securities of the granting entity and shall be on terms that, as determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion, properly reflects the substitution.
Substitute SARs
(e) . Subject to Section 14.3, the Committee may cancel and regrant or otherwise adjust the exercise price of SARs previously granted under the Plan without the approval of the Company's stockholders, provided that the Committee may not reprice, reduce the exercise price of or make similar adjustments with the effect of lowering the exercise price of SARs previously granted under the Plan without the approval of the Company's stockholders other than in connection with a change in the Company's capitalization pursuant to Section 10 of the Plan.
Certain Adjustments to Exercise Prices
8.2 . The following rules apply to all Stock Awards:
Stock Awards
(a) . The specific terms and conditions of a Stock Award applicable to the Awardee may be provided for in the Award Agreement. The Award Agreement shall state the number of Shares that the Awardee shall be entitled to receive or purchase, the terms and conditions on which the Shares shall vest (Stock Awards may be made in fully vested Shares when appropriate in the discretion of the Administrator), the price to be paid, whether Shares are to be delivered at the time of grant or at some deferred date specified in the Award Agreement, whether the Award is payable solely in Shares, cash or either and, if applicable, the time within which the Awardee must accept such offer. The offer may be accepted by execution or acknowledgement of the Award Agreement. The Administrator may require that all Shares subject to a right of repurchase or risk of forfeiture be held in escrow until such repurchase right or risk of
General
forfeiture lapses. The grant or vesting of a Stock Award may be made contingent on the achievement of Objectively Determinable Performance Conditions.
(b) . If so provided in the Award Agreement, Award Shares acquired pursuant to a Stock Award may be subject to repurchase by the Company or an Affiliate if not vested in accordance with the Award Agreement.
Right of Repurchase
(c) . The Administrator shall determine the acceptable form and method of payment for exercising a Stock Award, which may include any or all of the forms of payment set forth in Section 6.4.
Form of Payment
(d) . Except as otherwise determined by the Administrator and subject to Section 17, no Stock Award subject by its terms to any conditions or restrictions on the issuance or ownership rights of Shares pursuant to such Award, including without limitation any vesting or similar conditions or any deferral elections (any such Stock Awards, ""), shall be assignable or otherwise transferable by the Awardee.
Nonassignability of Stock Awards
Restricted Stock Awards
(e) . The Committee may cause the Company to grant Substitute Stock Awards in connection with the acquisition by the Company or an Affiliate of equity securities of any entity (including by merger, tender offer, or other similar transaction) or of all or a portion of the assets of any entity. Unless and to the extent specified otherwise by the Committee, Substitute Stock Awards shall have the same terms and conditions as the stock awards they replace, except that (subject to the provisions of Section 10) Substitute Stock Awards shall be Stock Awards to purchase Shares rather than equity securities of the granting entity and shall have a Purchase Price and other terms that, as determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion, properly reflects the substitution. Any such Substitute Stock Award shall be effective on the effective date of the acquisition.
Substitute Stock Award
(f) .
Forfeiture and Repurchase Rights
(i) . In the event of the Awardee's termination, any unvested Shares shall be forfeited, or if the Awardee paid a purchase price to acquire the Stock Award, the Company shall have the right, during the seven months after the Awardee's Termination, to repurchase any or all of the Award Shares that were unvested as of the date of that Termination. The repurchase price shall be determined by the Administrator in accordance with this Section
General
8.2(f) which shall be either (i) the Purchase Price for the Award Shares (minus the amount of any cash dividends paid or payable with respect to the Award Shares for which the record date precedes the repurchase) or (ii) the lower of (A) the Purchase Price for the Shares or (B) the Fair Market Value of those Award Shares as of the date of the Termination. The repurchase price shall be paid in cash. The Company may assign this right of repurchase.
(ii) . The Company or its assignee may choose to give the Awardee a written notice of exercise of its repurchase rights under this Section 8.2(f). However, the Company's failure to give such a notice shall not affect its rights to repurchase Award Shares. The Company must, however, tender the repurchase price during the period specified in this Section 8.2(f) for exercising its repurchase rights in order to exercise such rights.
Procedure
8.3 . Cash Awards may be granted either alone, in addition to, or in tandem with other Awards granted under this Plan. After the Administrator determines that it will offer a Cash Award, it shall advise the Awardee, by means of an Award Agreement or otherwise, of the terms, conditions and restrictions related to the Cash Award. The grant or vesting of a Cash Award may be made contingent on the achievement of Objectively Determinable Performance Conditions.
Cash Awards
 
9.1 . An Award shall be exercisable in accordance with this Plan and the Award Agreement under which it is granted.
In General
9.2 . Options and Stock Awards shall be considered exercised when the Company or its designee receives: (a) written (including electronically pursuant to Section 18.4 below) notice of exercise from the person entitled to exercise the Option or Stock Award, (b) full payment, or provision for payment, in a form and method approved by the Administrator, for the Shares for which the Option or Stock Award is being exercised, and (c) with respect to any Award the exercise of which triggers any withholding obligation, payment, or provision for payment, in a form and method approved by the Administrator, of all applicable withholding and similar taxes and/or (if applicable) transaction costs due upon exercise. An Award may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share. SARs shall be considered exercised when the Company receives written notice of the exercise from the person entitled to exercise the SAR.
Time of Exercise
9.3 . Subject to Sections 12.1 and 13, the Company shall issue Award Shares in the name of the Awardee (or to such other person as to whom the Award Shares may be appropriately and legally issued under procedures and rules, if any, established from time to time by the Administrator). The Company shall endeavor
Issuance of Award Shares
to issue Award Shares promptly after an Award is exercised or after the Grant Date or settlement date of a Stock Award, as applicable. Until Award Shares are actually issued, as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the stock register of the Company or its transfer agent, the Awardee will not have the rights of a stockholder with respect to those Award Shares, even though the Awardee has completed all the steps necessary to exercise the Award. No adjustment shall be made for any dividend, distribution, or other right for which the record date precedes the date the Award Shares are issued, except as provided in Section 10.
 
(a) . Except as provided in an Award Agreement or in writing by the Administrator, including in an Award Agreement, and as otherwise provided in Sections 9.4(b), (c), (d) and (e) after an Awardee's Termination for other than Cause, the Awardee's Awards shall be exercisable to the extent (but only to the extent) they are vested on the date of that Termination and only during the ninety (90) days after the Termination, but in no event after the Expiration Date. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, in the event of termination for Cause the Award may not be exercised after the date of Termination. To the extent the Awardee does not exercise an Award within the time specified for exercise, the Award shall automatically terminate.
In General
(b) . If an Awardee is an employee of the Company or an Affiliate and is on a leave of absence pursuant to the terms of the Company's Administrative Policy No. SH-1 "Unpaid Leave" or similar policy maintained by an Affiliate, as such policies may be revised or replaced from time to time, the Awardee shall not, during the period of such absence be deemed, by virtue of such absence alone, to have terminated the Awardee's employment. The Awardee shall continue to vest in the Award during any approved medical or military leave of absence. Medical leave shall include family or medical leaves, workers' compensation leave, or pregnancy disability leave. For all other leaves of absence, the Award will fully vest only during active employment and shall not vest during a leave of absence, unless required under local law. However, if an Awardee returns to active employment with the Company or an Affiliate following such a leave, the Award will be construed to vest as if there had been no break in active employment. During any leave of absence, an Awardee shall have the right to exercise the vested portion of the Award.
Leaves of Absence
(c) . Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement or determined by the Administrator, if an Awardee's Termination is due to death or disability (as determined by the
Death or Disability
Administrator with respect to all Awards other than Incentive Stock Options and as defined by Section 22(e) of the Code with respect to Incentive Stock Options), the unvested portion of all Awards of that Awardee shall be accelerated and become fully exercisable upon the Termination, and all Awards of the Awardee shall be exercisable until the Expiration Date. In the case of Termination due to death, an Award may be exercised as provided in Section 17. In the case of Termination due to disability, if a guardian or conservator has been appointed to act for the Awardee and been granted this authority as part of that appointment, that guardian or conservator may exercise the Award on behalf of the Awardee. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, death or disability occurring after an Awardee's Termination shall not cause the Termination to be treated as having occurred due to death or disability. To the extent an Award is not so exercised within the time specified for its exercise, the Award shall automatically terminate.
(d) . If an Awardee's Termination is due to a Divestiture, the Committee may take any one or more of the actions described in Section 10.3 or 10.4 with respect to the Awardee's Awards.
Divestiture
(e) . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 9.4 (a)-(d), the Administrator shall have complete discretion, exercisable either at the time an Award is granted or at any time while the Award remains outstanding, to:
Administrator Discretion
(i) Extend the period of time for which the Award is to remain exercisable, following the Awardee's Termination, from the limited exercise period otherwise in effect for that Award to such greater period of time as the Administrator shall deem appropriate, but in no event beyond the Expiration Date; and/or
(ii) Permit the Award to be exercised, during the applicable post-Termination exercise period, not only with respect to the number of vested Shares for which such Award may be exercisable at the time of the Awardee's Termination but also with respect to one or more additional installments in which the Awardee would have vested had the Awardee not been subject to Termination.
(f) . Nothing in this Plan or in any Award Agreement, and no Award or the fact that Award Shares remain subject to repurchase rights or risk of forfeiture, shall: (A) interfere with or limit the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate the employment or consultancy of any Awardee at any time, whether with or without cause or reason, and with or without the payment of severance or any other
Consulting or Employment Relationship
compensation or payment, (B) confer upon any employee any right to continue in the employ of, or affiliation with, the Company or a Subsidiary nor constitute any promise or commitment by the Company or a Subsidiary regarding future positions, future work assignments, future compensation or any other term or condition of employment or affiliation or (C) interfere with the application of any provision in any of the Company's or any Affiliate's charter documents or Applicable Law relating to the election, appointment, term of office, or removal of a Director.
 
10.1 . Except as provided in this Section 10, no change in the capital structure of the Company, merger, sale or other disposition of assets or of a subsidiary, change in control, issuance by the Company of shares of any class of securities or securities convertible into shares of any class of securities, exchange or conversion of securities, or other transaction or event shall require or be the occasion for any adjustments of the type described in this Section 10.
In General
10.2 . In the event of any stock split, reverse stock split, recapitalization, combination or reclassification of stock, stock dividend, spin-off, extraordinary cash dividend or similar change to the capital structure of the Company (not including a Fundamental Transaction or Change in Control), the Committee shall make such adjustments as it concludes are appropriate in order to preserve the proportionate value of Awards before and after the change in capital structure of the Company to: (a) the number and type of Awards and Award Shares that may be granted under this Plan, including (without limitation) to the number of Shares available for issuance over the term of this Plan as set forth in Section 3.1 above, (b) the number and type of Options, SARs and Stock Awards that may be granted to any individual under this Plan, (c) the terms of any SAR, (d) the Purchase Price and repurchase price of any Stock Award or other Award Shares, (e) the Option Price and number and class of securities issuable under each outstanding Option, and (f) the repurchase price of any securities substituted for Award Shares that are subject to repurchase rights. The specific adjustments shall be determined by the Committee. Unless the Committee specifies otherwise, any securities issuable as a result of any such adjustment shall be rounded down to the next lower whole security. The Committee need not adopt the same rules for each Award or each Awardee.
Changes in Capital Structure
10.3 . In the event of (a) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the surviving corporation (other than a merger or consolidation with a wholly-owned subsidiary, a reincorporation of the Company in a different jurisdiction, or other transaction in which there is no substantial change in the stockholders of the Company or their relative stock holdings and the Awards granted under this Plan are assumed, converted or replaced by the successor corporation, which assumption shall be binding on all participants), (b) a merger in which the Company is
Fundamental Transactions
the surviving corporation but after which the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such merger (other than any stockholder that merges, or which owns or controls another corporation that merges, with the Company in such merger) cease to own their shares or other equity interest in the Company, (c) the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or (d) the acquisition, sale, or transfer of more than 50% of the outstanding shares of the Company by tender offer or similar transaction (each, a ""), any or all outstanding Options, SARs and Restricted Stock Awards may be assumed, converted or replaced by the successor corporation (if any), which assumption, conversion or replacement shall be binding on all participants under this Plan. In the alternative, the successor corporation may substitute equivalent Options, SARs and Restricted Stock Awards or provide substantially similar consideration to participants as was provided to stockholders (after taking into account the existing provisions of the Awards). The successor corporation may also issue, in place of outstanding Shares held by the participants, substantially similar shares or other property subject to repurchase restrictions no less favorable to the participant. In the event such successor corporation (if any) does not assume or substitute Options, SARs and Restricted Stock Awards, as provided above, pursuant to a transaction described in this Subsection 10.3, the vesting with respect to such Awards shall fully and immediately accelerate or the repurchase rights of the Company shall fully and immediately terminate, as the case may be, so that the Awards may be exercised or the repurchase rights shall terminate before, or otherwise in connection with the closing or completion of the Fundamental Transaction or event and the Award shall then terminate. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide that the vesting of any or all Award Shares subject to vesting or right of repurchase shall accelerate or lapse, as the case may be, upon a transaction described in this Section 10.3. If the Committee exercises such discretion with respect to Options, such Options shall become exercisable in full prior to the consummation of such event at such time and on such conditions as the Committee determines, and if such Options are not exercised prior to the consummation of the Fundamental Transaction, the Committee may specify that they terminate at such time as determined by the Committee. Subject to any greater rights granted to participants under the foregoing provisions of this Section 10.3, in the event of the occurrence of any Fundamental Transaction, any outstanding Awards shall be treated as provided in the applicable agreement or plan of merger, consolidation or sale of assets.
Fundamental Transaction
10.4 . The Board may also, but need not, specify that other transactions or events constitute a "." The Board may do that either before or after the transaction or event occurs. Examples of transactions or events that the Board may treat as Changes in Control are: (a) any person or entity, including a "group" as contemplated by Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, acquires securities holding 25% or more of the total combined voting power or value of the Company, or (b) as a result of or in connection with a contested election of Company Directors, the persons who were Company Directors immediately before the election cease to constitute a majority of the Board. In connection with a Change in Control, notwithstanding any
Changes in Control
Change in Control
other provision of this Plan, the Board may, but need not, take any one or more of the actions described in Section 10.3. In addition, the Board may extend the date for the exercise of exercisable Awards (but not beyond their original Expiration Date).
10.5 . The Committee need not adopt the same rules for each Award or each Awardee. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, in the event of an Involuntary Termination of services for any reason other than death, disability or Cause, within 18 months following the consummation of a Fundamental Transaction or Change in Control, any Options, SARs and Restricted Stock Awards assumed or substituted in a Fundamental Transaction or Change in Control, which are subject to vesting conditions and/or the right of repurchase in favor of the Company or a successor entity, shall fully accelerate for vesting so that such Award Shares are immediately exercisable upon Termination or, if subject to the right of repurchase in favor of the Company, such repurchase rights shall lapse as of the date of Termination. Any such Awards having an exercisability feature shall be exercisable for a period of six months following Termination.
Additional Rules and Benefits related to Fundamental Transactions and Changes in Control
10.6 . If the Company or an Affiliate sells or otherwise transfers equity securities of an Affiliate to a person or entity other than the Company or an Affiliate, or leases, exchanges or transfers all or any portion of its assets to such a person or entity, then the Committee may specify that such transaction or event constitutes a "Divestiture". In connection with a Divestiture, notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, the Committee may, but need not, take one or more of the actions described in Section 10.3, 10.4 or 10.5 with respect to Awards or Award Shares held by, for example, Employees, Directors or Consultants for whom that transaction or event results in a Termination. The Committee need not adopt the same rules for each Award or Awardee.
Divestiture
10.7 . If the Company adopts a plan of dissolution, the Committee may cause Awards to be fully vested and exercisable (but not after their Expiration Date) before the dissolution is completed but contingent on its completion and may cause the Company's repurchase rights on Award Shares to lapse upon completion of the dissolution. The Committee need not adopt the same rules for each Award or each Awardee. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event of a dissolution of the Company, to the extent not exercised before the earlier of the completion of the dissolution or their Expiration Date, Awards shall terminate immediately prior to the dissolution.
Dissolution
10.8 . If the Administrator determines that the net after-tax amount to be realized by any Awardee, taking into account any accelerated vesting, termination of repurchase rights, or cash payments to that Awardee in connection with any transaction or event set forth in this Section 10 would be greater if one or more of those steps were not taken or payments were not made with respect to that Awardee's Awards or Award Shares, then, at the election of the Awardee, to such extent, one or more of those steps shall not be taken and payments shall not be made.
Cut-Back to Preserve Benefits
11.1 .
Certain Transactions and Events
(a) In the event of a Fundamental Transaction while the Awardee remains a non-Employee Director, the Shares at the time subject to each outstanding Award held by such Awardee pursuant to this Plan, but not otherwise vested, shall automatically vest in full and become exercisable for all Shares as fully vested Shares and all repurchase rights shall automatically terminate in full immediately prior to the effective date of the Fundamental Transaction. Immediately following the consummation of the Fundamental Transaction, each Award shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or Affiliate thereof).
(b) In the event of a Change in Control while the Awardee remains a non-Employee Director, the Shares at the time subject to each outstanding Award held by such Awardee pursuant to this Plan, but not otherwise vested, shall automatically vest in full and become exercisable for all the Shares as fully vested Shares and all repurchase rights shall automatically terminate in full immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control. Each such Award shall remain exercisable for such fully vested Shares until the expiration or sooner termination of the Award term in connection with a Change in Control.
(c) Each Award which is assumed in connection with a Fundamental Transaction shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Fundamental Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to the Awardee in consummation of such Fundamental Transaction had the Award been exercised immediately prior to such Fundamental Transaction. Appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Option Price or Purchase Price payable per share under each outstanding Award, provided the aggregate Option Price or Purchase Price payable for such securities shall remain the same. To the extent the actual holders of the Company's outstanding Shares receive cash consideration for their Shares in consummation of the Fundamental Transaction, the successor corporation may, in connection with the assumption of the outstanding Awards granted to non-Employee Directors under this Plan, substitute one or more shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per Share in such Fundamental Transaction.
12.1 .
Tax Withholding Alternatives
(a) . Whenever Awards are granted or exercised, or Award Shares are issued or become free of restrictions, as applicable, the Company may require the Awardee to remit to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable tax withholding requirement, whether the related tax is imposed on the Awardee or the Company. The Company shall have no obligation to deliver Award Shares or release Award Shares from an escrow or permit a transfer of Award Shares until the Awardee has satisfied those tax withholding obligations. Whenever payment in satisfaction of Awards is made in cash, the payment will be reduced by an amount sufficient to satisfy all tax withholding requirements.
General
(b) . The Awardee shall pay any required withholding using such forms of consideration as are described in Section 6.4(a) and determined appropriate by the Administrator. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may also permit Award Shares to be withheld or surrendered to pay required withholding. If the Administrator permits Award Shares to be withheld or surrendered, the Fair Market Value of the Award Shares withheld or surrendered, as determined as of the date of withholding, shall not exceed the amount determined by the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates to the extent the Administrator determines such limit is necessary or advisable in light of generally accepted accounting principles.
Method of Payment
12.2 . Any holder of Option Shares acquired under an Incentive Stock Option shall promptly notify the Administrator, following such procedures as the Administrator may require, of the sale or other disposition of any of those Option Shares if the disposition occurs during: (a) the longer of two years after the Grant Date of the Incentive Stock Option and one year after the date the Incentive Stock Option was exercised, or (b) such other period as the Administrator has established.
Reporting of Dispositions
 
The grant of Awards and the issuance and subsequent transfer of Award Shares shall be subject to compliance with all Applicable Law, including all applicable securities laws. Awards may not be exercised, and Award Shares may not be transferred, in violation of Applicable Law. Thus, for example, Awards may not be exercised unless: (a) a registration statement under the Securities Act is then in effect with respect to the related Award Shares, or (b) in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, those Award Shares may be issued in accordance with an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and any other applicable securities laws. The failure or
inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body the authority considered by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary or useful for the lawful issuance of any Award Shares or their subsequent transfer shall relieve the Company of any liability for failing to issue those Award Shares or permitting their transfer. As a condition to the exercise of any Award or the transfer of any Award Shares, the Company may require the Awardee to satisfy any requirements or qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate to comply with or evidence compliance with any Applicable Law.
 
14.1 . The Board or the Committee may at any time amend, suspend, or terminate this Plan.
Amendment and Termination
14.2 . The Company shall obtain the approval of the Company's stockholders for any amendment to this Plan if stockholder approval is necessary or desirable to comply with any Applicable Law or with the requirements applicable to the grant of Awards intended to be Incentive Stock Options. The Board may also, but need not, require that the Company's stockholders approve any other amendments to this Plan.
Stockholder Approval
14.3 . No amendment, suspension, or termination of this Plan, and no modification of any Award even in the absence of an amendment, suspension, or termination of this Plan, shall impair any existing contractual rights of any Awardee unless the affected Awardee consents to the amendment, suspension, termination, or modification. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no such consent shall be required if the Committee determines that the amendment, suspension, termination, or modification (including an amendment of the designation of the class of securities to be issued under Awards): (a) is required or advisable in order for the Company, this Plan or the Award to satisfy Applicable Law, to meet the requirements of any accounting standard or to avoid any adverse accounting treatment, or (b) in connection with any transaction or event described in Section 10, is in the best interests of the Company or its stockholders. The Committee may, but need not, take the tax or accounting consequences to affected Awardees into consideration in acting under the preceding sentence. Those decisions shall be final, binding and conclusive. Termination of this Plan shall not affect the Administrator's ability to exercise the powers granted to it under this Plan with respect to Awards granted before the termination of this Plan or with respect to Award Shares issued under such Awards even if those Award Shares are issued after the termination of this Plan.
Effect
 
15.1 . This Plan shall not limit the power of the Company or any Affiliate to adopt other incentive arrangements including, for example, the grant or issuance of stock options, stock, other equity-based rights or cash bonuses or awards under other plans.
Nonexclusivity of this Plan
15.2 . This Plan shall be unfunded. Although bookkeeping accounts may be established with respect to Awardees, any such accounts will be used merely as a convenience. The Company shall not be required to segregate any assets on account of this Plan, the grant of Awards, or the issuance of Award Shares. The Company and the Administrator shall not be deemed to be a trustee of stock or cash to be awarded under this Plan. Any obligations of the Company to any Awardee shall be based solely upon contracts entered into under this Plan, such as Award Agreements. No such obligations shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge or other encumbrance on any assets of the Company. Neither the Company nor the Administrator shall be required to give any security or bond for the performance of any such obligations.
Unfunded Plan
15.3 The value of Options, SARs and Stock Awards granted pursuant to the Plan will not be included as compensation, earnings, salary or other similar terms used when calculating an Awardee's benefits under any other employee benefit plan sponsored by the Company or any Affiliate except as such other plan otherwise expressly provides.
Compensation.
 
To enforce any restrictions on Award Shares, the Administrator may require the holder to deposit any certificates (or indicia of ownership) representing Award Shares, with stock powers or other transfer instruments approved by the Administrator endorsed in blank, with the Company or an agent of the Company to hold in escrow until the restrictions have lapsed or terminated. The Administrator may also cause a legend or legends referencing the restrictions to be placed on any such certificates.
 
17.1 The Company may from time to time establish procedures under which the Company may make certain determinations required with respect to Awards in the event of an Awardee's death. The Company's determinations and decisions in this regard shall be final and binding on all parties.
Treatment of Awards upon Death of Awardee.
17.2 Options, SARs and Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Awards shall generally be nontransferable; provided however that the Administrator may in its discretion (and as reflected in the applicable Award Agreement or an amendment thereto) make an Option, SAR or Restricted Stock Award transferable to an Awardee's family or entities affiliated with the Awardee's family if and to the extent permitted under the rules and instructions applicable to Form S-8 (or any successor form or other securities laws under which the issuance and sale of Awards and Award
Limited Transferability.
Shares hereunder are registered or exempted). If the Administrator makes an Option, SAR or Restricted Stock Award transferable, either at the time of grant or thereafter, such Award shall contain such additional terms and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate, and any transferee shall be deemed to be bound by such terms upon acceptance of such transfer.
 
18.1 . This Plan, the Award Agreements and all other agreements entered into under this Plan, and all actions taken under this Plan or in connection with Awards or Award Shares, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law.
Governing Law
18.2 . The "Fair Market Value" of a Share shall be determined as follows:
Determination of Value
(a) . If Shares are traded on any established stock exchange or quoted on a national market system, Fair Market Value shall be the closing sales price as quoted on that stock exchange or system for the day before the date the value is to be determined (the "Value Date") as reported in The Wall Street Journal or a similar publication. If no sales are reported as having occurred on the day before the Value Date, Fair Market Value shall be that closing sales price for the last preceding trading day on which sales of Shares are reported as having occurred. If no sales are reported as having occurred during the five trading days before the Value Date, Fair Market Value shall be the closing bid for the Shares on the day before the Value Date. If the Shares of the Company are listed on multiple exchanges or systems, Fair Market Value shall be based on sales or bid prices on the primary exchange or system on which Shares of the Company are traded or quoted.
Listed Stock
(b) . If Shares are regularly quoted by a recognized securities dealer but selling prices are not reported on any established stock exchange or quoted on a national market system, Fair Market Value shall be the mean between the high bid and low asked prices on the day before the Value Date. If no prices are quoted for the day before the Value Date, Fair Market Value shall be the mean between the high bid and low asked prices on the last preceding trading day on which any bid and asked prices were quoted.
Stock Quoted by Securities Dealer
(c) . If Shares are not traded on any established stock exchange or quoted on a national market system and are not quoted by a recognized securities dealer, the Administrator (following guidelines established by the Board or Committee) will determine Fair Market Value of the Shares in good faith.
No Established Market
(d) If shares of the Company's Common Stock are traded on any established stock exchange or quoted on a national market system, the Fair Market Value of shares of the Company's Class A Preferred Stock shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of the Company's Common Stock, as of the relevant valuation date, for all purposes under this Plan.
Class A Preferred Stock.
18.3 . During the term of this Plan, the Company shall at all times keep available such number of Shares as are still issuable under this Plan.
Reservation of Shares
18.4 . Any Award Agreement, notice of exercise of an Award, or other document required or permitted by this Plan may be delivered in writing or, to the extent determined by the Administrator, electronically. Signatures or acknowledgements may also be electronic if permitted by the Administrator.
Electronic Communications
18.5 . Unless the Administrator specifies otherwise, any notice to the Company under any Award Agreement or with respect to any Awards or Award Shares shall be in writing (or, if so authorized by Section 18.4, communicated electronically), shall be addressed to the Secretary of the Company, and shall only be effective when received by the Secretary of the Company.
Notices


