FILE:SAI/SAI-8K-20070411160825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 11, 2007, SAIC, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended January 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
(SAN DIEGO and MCLEAN, VA)  April 11, 2007  SAIC, Inc. [NYSE: SAI] today announced financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2007, which ended January 31, 2007. Revenue, diluted earnings per share, and cash flow from operations exceeded the top end of the guidance ranges provided by the company on its previous earnings release.
"The company completed its 38
th
year in strong fashion," said Ken Dahlberg, SAIC chairman and chief executive officer. "The growth initiatives and margin expansion plans we described during our recent initial public offering (IPO) are beginning to show results. Our 44,000 employeesmost of whom are shareholdersare collaborating more effectively to offer the full breadth of services and solutions to our customers."
Summary Operating Results
Revenues for the quarter were $2.1 billion, up 10 percent from $2.0 billion in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006. Revenues for the year were $8.3 billion, up 7 percent from $7.8 billion in fiscal year 2006. Internal, or non-acquisition, growth represented approximately 7 percentage points of the consolidated growth for the quarter and 4 percentage points of the consolidated growth for the fiscal year.
Operating income for the quarter was $144 million (6.7 percent of revenue), up 10 percent from $131 million (6.7 percent of revenue) in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006. Full-year operating income was $585 million (7.1 percent of revenue), up 19 percent from $490 million (6.3 percent of revenue) in fiscal year 2006. Operating income for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2007 include $8 million and $33 million, respectively, in compensation expenses related to stock options and the company's employee stock purchase program that were not included in the comparable periods for fiscal year 2006 in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 123(R). Operating income for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2006 reflect $6 million and $83 million, respectively, in contract losses associated with the company's firm fixed-price contract with the Greek government.
Income from continuing operations for the quarter was $85 million, down 36 percent from $132 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006. Full-year income from continuing operations was $369 million, up 8 percent from $341 million in fiscal year 2006. Year-over-year comparisons of income from continuing operations are not as positive as those from operating income primarily because the fiscal year 2006 tax rates were significantly below the fiscal year 2007 rates. This was due to the reversal of certain tax contingency accruals during fiscal year 2006, which brought the effective tax rate well below a normal rate of about 40 percent. In addition, interest income was lower for the fourth quarter but higher for the year in fiscal year 2007 compared to fiscal year 2006.
 
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the quarter were $0.20, down 46 percent from $0.37 in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, driven by a reduction in interest income, increase in tax expense, and higher share count compared to the prior year. The diluted share count for the quarter was 420 million, up 19 percent from 353 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 as a result of the shares issued in the IPO. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the year were $1.01, up 6 percent from $0.95 in fiscal year 2006, even as the diluted share count increased from 359 million to 364 million.
Diluted earnings per share, which include discontinued operations, were $0.20 for the quarter, down 55 percent from $0.44 in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006. Diluted earnings per share for the year were $1.07, down 59 percent from $2.58 in fiscal year 2006. Discontinued operations include the majority owned subsidiary ANX, which was sold in the third quarter of fiscal year 2007, and Telcordia, which was sold in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006.
Cash Generation and Capital Deployment
Cash flow from operations for the quarter was $199 million, down 14 percent from $231 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006. For the year cash flow from operations was $704 million, up 20 percent from $587 million in fiscal year 2006. As of January 31, 2007, the company had $1.1 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $1.2 billion in long-term debt.
During the quarter the company used a total of $67 million to repurchase 2.4 million shares under the 40-million share stock repurchase program and 1.3 million shares in privately negotiated transactions or to pay withholding taxes associated with stock option exercises and vesting events. Only the repurchases under the stock repurchase plan had not been planned when the company provided guidance on December 12, 2006.
In addition, SAIC completed the following two acquisitions during the fourth quarter for a total cost of $252 million:
 
 
Mark Sopp, SAIC chief financial officer commented, "In fiscal year 2007, our core business showed improved profitability and excellent cash flow. Looking forward, we are focused on internal growth initiatives, continued operating margin expansion, and deploying cash flow and other capital wisely to strengthen our company and increase its value."
 
New Business Awards
New business bookings totaled $2.7 billion in the fourth quarter and $9.2 billion for the fiscal year, representing a book-to-bill ratio of 1.3 and 1.1 for the fourth quarter and fiscal year, respectively. Bookings reflect net additions to backlog, derived by taking the change in total backlog plus revenue recognized for the period. No bookings value is assigned unless the company has received a signed contract for a priced statement of work. Notable highlights of competitive single-award delivery order contracts received during the quarter include:
 
 
 
In addition to these defined delivery awards, SAIC also won several indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts that are not included in the bookings total. Notable IDIQ awards during the quarter include:
 
 
 
 
 
The company's backlog of signed business orders at the end of fiscal year 2007 was over $15.1 billion, of which $4.8 billion was funded. The negotiated unfunded backlog of $10.3 billion represents the estimated amount to be earned in the future from firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders that might be awarded under IDIQ or other Master Agreement contract vehicles.
Forward Guidance
The company is reaffirming its guidance for fiscal year 2008 given on December 12, 2006, which is shown in the table below.
 
About SAIC
SAIC is a leading provider of scientific, engineering, systems integration and technical services and solutions to all branches of the U.S. military, agencies of the Department of Defense, the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and other U.S. Government civil agencies, as well as to customers in selected commercial markets. With more than 44,000 employees in over 150 cities worldwide, SAIC engineers and scientists solve complex technical challenges requiring innovative solutions for customers' mission-critical functions.
SAIC: FROM SCIENCE TO SOLUTIONS
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this release contain or are based on "forward-looking" information within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "guidance" and similar words or phrases. Forward-looking statements in this release include,
 
among others, estimates of future sales, earnings, backlog, outstanding shares and cash flow. These statements reflect our belief and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual performance and results may differ materially from the guidance and other forward-looking statements made in this release depending on a variety of factors, including: changes in the U.S. Government defense budget or budgetary priorities or delays in the U.S. budget process; changes in U.S. Government procurement rules and regulations; our compliance with various U.S. Government and other government procurement rules and regulations; the outcome of U.S. Government audits of our company; our ability to win contracts with the U.S. Government and others; our ability to attract, train and retain skilled employees; our ability to maintain relationships with prime contractors, subcontractors and joint venture partners; our ability to obtain required security clearances for our employees; our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with our firm fixed price and other contracts; resolution of legal and other disputes with our customers and others; our ability to successfully acquire and integrate businesses; our ability to manage risks associated with our international business; our ability to compete with others in the markets in which we operate; and our ability to execute our business plan effectively and to overcome these and other known and unknown risks that we face. These are only some of the factors that may affect the forward-looking statements contained in this release. For further information concerning risks and uncertainties associated with our business, please refer to the filings we make from time to time with the SEC, including the "Risk Factors," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Legal Proceedings" sections of our final prospectus dated October 12, 2006, which may be viewed or obtained through the Investor Relations section of our Web site at www.saic.com.
All information in this release is as of April 11, 2007. SAIC expressly disclaims any duty to update the guidance or any other forward-looking statement provided in this release to reflect subsequent events, actual results or changes in the company's expectations. SAIC also disclaims any duty to comment upon or correct information that may be contained in reports published by investment analysts or others.
 
 
 
 
 


