FILE:SAI/SAI-8K-20070212163050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
SAIC, Inc. (Company) previously disclosed that it was seeking a ruling from the IRS that would permit it to take a tax deduction for a portion of a special dividend declared in October 2006. The Company was seeking IRS approval that would permit participants of the Company's retirement plan to elect to receive the dividend in cash or reinvest it in other investment alternatives in the plan. The Company was proposing to the IRS that the Company should be able to deduct the amount of the dividend that participants elected to receive in cash under a section of the Internal Revenue Code which permits the deduction of certain dividends paid to an employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) such as the Company's retirement plan.
On February 12, 2007, the Company reported in communications sent to retirement plan participants, employees and stockholders that the IRS will not permit the Company to provide this type of election to plan participants. Given this result, the special dividend will be allocated to participants' individual accounts in the plan and participants will be able to reinvest it in any plan investment alternative. No election to receive the special dividend in cash will be permitted, and the Company will not receive a tax deduction for any amount of the special dividend paid to the plan.
A copy of the memo to employees and stockholders from the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. A copy of the notice to participants in the SAIC Retirement Plan from the Chairman of the SAIC Retirement Plans Committee is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
February 12, 2007
Date:
Ken Dahlberg
From:
SAIC Employees and Stockholders
To:
Pre-IPO Special Dividend IRS Guidance
Subject:
We have been in discussions over the last several months with the IRS in an attempt to allow participants in the SAIC Retirement Plan to elect to receive the pre-IPO special dividend related to SAIC stock in the Plan in cash or reinvest it in investment alternatives available under the Plan. Our discussions with the IRS have concluded, and the IRS has advised us that plan participants would not be permitted to make an election to receive their dividend in cash or reinvest it in other Plan investment alternatives.
Given this, the special dividend will be allocated to participants' individual accounts in the Plan during the week of February 18th, and participants will be able to reinvest it into the Plan's investment alternatives. Since no election to receive the special dividend in cash is permitted, the Company will not receive a tax deduction for any amount of the special dividend paid to the Plan.
A separate letter will be sent by John Warner, Chairman of the SAIC Retirement Plans Committee, informing Plan participants of this result and providing more details. Also, participants can request additional information from SAIC Retirement Programs or through Vanguard's website (www.vanguard.com).
This closes out the last IPO structural issue. I would like to thank our employees and stockholders for their patience throughout the IPO process.
Ken Dahlberg
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Exhibit 99.2
February 2007
Summary of important information covered in this notice:
 
 
 
 
Dear SAIC Retirement Plan Participant:
As you know, SAIC declared a special dividend (Dividend) on shares of its outstanding stock in October 2006. The SAIC Retirement Plan (Plan) received its portion of the Dividend when it was paid to all SAIC stockholders in November 2006. The proceeds of the Dividend have been invested in the Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund awaiting guidance from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
As we have previously advised, SAIC requested guidance from the IRS on whether it may allow participants to elect to receive the Dividend in cash or reinvest into other investment alternatives available in the Plan and permit SAIC to take a tax deduction on that portion of the Dividend distributed in cash to participants. SAIC's discussions with the IRS have concluded and the IRS advised SAIC that Plan participants would not be permitted to make an election to receive the Dividend in cash. SAIC will not be able to take a tax deduction for any amount of the Dividend paid to the Plan. Therefore, the Dividend will remain in the Plan and will now be allocated to participants' accounts.
The allocation of proceeds to your account that are related to the dividend is a two-step process. The portion of the Dividend that you are entitled to receive as a Plan participant is scheduled to be allocated to your Plan account during the week of February 18, 2007.Following the allocation of the Dividend, the earnings that accumulated from the investment of the Dividend in the Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund will also be allocated to your account during the week of February 18, 2007. The portion of the Dividend and the associated earnings allocated to your account will be invested in the LifeStrategy Conservative Growth Fund.
SAIC Retirement Plan Participants
February 2007
Page 2 of 2
Once the Dividend and associated earnings are allocated to your account and invested in the LifeStrategy Conservative Growth Fund, you may exchange the proceeds into any other investment alternative offered by the Plan. If you wish to reinvest the dividend proceeds or earnings into the SAIC Common Stock Fund, this will be permitted in early April 2007. You will receive more information regarding this and other updates to the SAIC Stock Funds in early March 2007. To make these or any other changes to your Plan account, log on to your account at or call Vanguard at .
www.vanguard.com
800-523-1188
If you have questions, please call Vanguard Participant Services at Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 9 p.m., Eastern time.
800-523-1188
We appreciate your patience and understanding throughout this process which unfortunately required many months to resolve.
Sincerely,
John H. Warner, Jr.
Chairman of the SAIC Retirement Plans Committee
 
For more information about any
mutual
fund
available through the SAIC Retirement Plan
, including investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses, call The Vanguard Group at 800-523-1188 to obtain a prospectus. The prospectus contains this and other important information about the fund. Read and consider the prospectus information carefully before you invest. You can also download Vanguard fund prospectuses at www.vanguard.com.


