FILE:SAI/SAI-8K-20081209161145.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 9, 2008, SAIC, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended October 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
(SAN DIEGO and MCLEAN, VA)  December 9, 2008  SAIC, Inc. (NYSE: SAI), a scientific, engineering, and technology applications company, today announced financial results for the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, which ended October 31, 2008.
"We continue to deliver strong contract performance and financial results consistent with our plan," said Ken Dahlberg, SAIC chairman and chief executive officer. "Our 45,000 employees are dedicated to solving our customers' hardest problems, which creates a powerful discriminator in the markets we serve. Our success in capturing larger and more demanding programs and recruiting and retaining the skilled workforce to execute them provide good visibility into fiscal year 2010."
During the quarter, the company decided to sell a small products business that was previously part of Applied Marine Technology, Inc. (AMTI), which was acquired in December 2006. AMTI's primary business, including services and solutions for the special warfare community and ground-based signals intelligence, continues to be core to the company's strategic intent. The results from the AMTI products business are reflected in discontinued operations.
Summary Operating Results
Revenues for the quarter were $2.63 billion, up 11 percent from $2.36 billion in the third quarter of fiscal year 2008. Internal, or non-acquisition, growth represented 10 percentage points of the consolidated growth for the quarter. Key drivers of internal growth for the quarter included new and expanding programs in the intelligence and defense markets, including systems integration and logistics support activities for mine resistant ambush protected (MRAP) vehicles.
Operating income for the quarter was $205 million (7.8 percent of revenue), up 8 percent from $189 million (8.0 percent of revenue) in the third quarter of fiscal year 2008. The year-over-year decline in operating margin was primarily attributable to fewer shipments of higher margin border and port security products, lower recovery of prior year indirect cost over-runs, and a higher percentage of revenues from lower margin materials and subcontractor revenues compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2008.
Income from continuing operations for the quarter was $118 million, up 7 percent from $110 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2008. Growth in income from continuing operations was driven by higher revenues and operating income, but it was adversely affected by a $7 million reduction in interest income net of interest expense and $16 million of impairments on several equity investments, partially offset by a lower tax rate as a result of the favorable settlement of certain income tax audits and the reenactment of the federal research tax credit in the third quarter of fiscal 2009.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the quarter were $0.29, up 7 percent from $0.27 in the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, driven by the increase in income from continuing operations and a lower share count compared to the prior year. The diluted share count for the quarter was 402 million, down 3 percent from 414 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, due primarily to repurchases under the company's stock repurchase program. Diluted earnings per share, which include discontinued operations, were $0.30 for the quarter, up 20 percent from $0.25 in the third quarter of fiscal year 2008.
Cash Generation and Capital Deployment
Cash flows from operations for the quarter were $186 million (or 1.6 times income from continuing operations), up 92 percent from $97 million for the third quarter of fiscal year 2008. Cash collections continued to be strong as days sales outstanding (DSO) were 69 days, within the company's target range. The year-over-year increase in cash flows from operations primarily results from a 3-day larger rise in DSO in the third quarter of fiscal year 2008.
During the quarter, the company used $13 million to repurchase approximately 0.7 million shares, including 0.3 million shares under the company's stock repurchase program and the remainder in recurring repurchases from employees in settlement of withholding taxes associated with stock option exercises and vesting events. Whether any future repurchases are made and the timing and actual number of shares repurchased under the stock repurchase program will depend on a variety of factors, including share price, corporate capital requirements, and other market conditions. As of October 31, 2008, the company had $812 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1.1 billion in long-term debt.
Mark Sopp, SAIC chief financial officer commented, "I am pleased that the hard work of the entire SAIC team is paying off in both strong current financial results and the forward indicators of new bookings and net hires. We are on track to meet all of our key financial metrics for the year, including revenue, operating margin, earnings per share, and cash flows from operations. We continue to use our cash prudently, through selected acquisitions and share repurchases. We are currently investing our cash conservatively, with correspondingly lower returns, in light of the uncertainty in the financial markets."
New Business Awards
Net new business bookings totaled $3.8 billion in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, representing a book-to-bill ratio of 1.5. Net bookings are calculated as the current period ending backlog plus the current period's revenue less prior period ending backlog and backlog obtained in acquisitions. No bookings value is assigned unless the company has received a signed contract for a priced statement of work.
Large, competitive definite delivery contract awards received during the quarter include:
 
 
 
 
In addition, SAIC also won several indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts that are not included in net bookings. The most notable IDIQ awards during the quarter were:
 
 
The company's backlog of signed business orders at the end of third quarter of fiscal year 2009 was $17.2 billion, of which $5.7 billion was funded. As compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, total backlog increased 9 percent and funded backlog increased 5 percent. The negotiated unfunded backlog of $11.5 billion represents the estimated amount to be earned in the future from firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future expected task orders to be awarded under IDIQ or other master agreement contract vehicles.
Forward Guidance
As part of its October 2006 initial public offering, the company articulated its long-term, average annual financial goals:
 
 
 
 
Given its operating results through the third quarter of the year, recent contract wins, and share repurchases to date, the company expects to meet all of its long-term financial goals in fiscal year 2009.
The company's business development and contract execution performance in fiscal year 2009, coupled with a healthy U.S. defense budget through October 2009, provide good visibility for fiscal year 2010. Unless there are significant, unanticipated disruptions in government funding, the company expects its revenue and operating margin performance to be consistent with its long-term goals in fiscal year 2010. The company is investing its cash balance primarily in U.S. Treasury securities, which will significantly reduce interest income and, as a result, make the EPS growth goal more difficult to achieve. However, the company intends to offset the shortfall by deploying its balance sheet and free cash flow generation on acquisitions and share repurchases if they can be made at attractive prices.
About SAIC
SAIC is a FORTUNE 500 scientific, engineering, and technology applications company that uses its deep domain knowledge to solve problems of vital importance to the nation and the world, in national security, energy and the environment, critical infrastructure, and health. The company's approximately 45,000 employees serve customers in the Department of Defense, the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, other U.S. Government civil agencies and selected commercial markets. SAIC had annual revenues of $8.9 billion for its fiscal year ended January 31, 2008. For more information, visit www.saic.com.
SAIC: From Science to Solutions
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this release contain or are based on "forward-looking" information within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "guidance" and similar words or phrases. Forward-looking statements in this release include, among others, estimates of future revenues, earnings, backlog, outstanding shares and cash flows. These statements reflect our belief and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual performance and results may differ materially from the guidance and other forward-looking statements made in this release depending on a variety of factors, including: changes in the U.S. Government defense budget or budgetary priorities or delays in the U.S. budget process; changes in U.S. Government procurement rules and regulations; our compliance with various U.S. Government and other government procurement rules and regulations; the outcome of U.S. Government audits of our company; our ability to win contracts with the U.S. Government and others; our ability to attract, train and retain skilled employees; our ability to maintain relationships with prime contractors, subcontractors and joint venture partners; our ability to obtain required security clearances for our employees; our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with our firm-fixed-price and other contracts; resolution of legal and other disputes with our customers and others; our ability to successfully acquire and integrate businesses; our ability to manage risks associated with our international business; our ability to compete with others in the markets in which we operate; and our ability to execute our business plan effectively and to overcome these and other known and unknown risks that we face. These are only some of the factors that may affect the forward-looking statements contained in this release. For further information concerning risks and uncertainties associated with our business, please refer to the filings we make from time to time with the SEC, including the "Risk Factors," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Legal Proceedings" sections of our latest annual report on Forms 10-K and 10-K/A and quarterly report on Forms 10-Q and 10-Q/A, which may be viewed or obtained through the Investor Relations section of our Web site at www.saic.com.
All information in this release is as of December 9, 2008. SAIC expressly disclaims any duty to update the guidance or any other forward-looking statement provided in this release to reflect subsequent events, actual results or changes in the company's expectations. SAIC also disclaims any duty to comment upon or correct information that may be contained in reports published by investment analysts or others.
CONTACTS:
Investor Relations:
Stuart Davis
703-676-2283
stuart.davis@saic.com
Media Relations:
 
 
 
 


