FILE:SAI/SAI-8K-20080603162422.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 3, 2008, SAIC, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended April 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
(SAN DIEGO and MCLEAN, VA)  June 3, 2008  SAIC, Inc. [NYSE: SAI], a leading provider of research, engineering, and technology services and solutions, today announced financial results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, which ended April 30, 2008.
"I am pleased that our company has started the new fiscal year with such strong performance," said Ken Dahlberg, SAIC chairman and chief executive officer. "Revenue, profitability, and cash flow from operations all improved substantially compared to last year. Our dedicated employees continue to win new contracts and help solve some of the world's most critical problems in national security, energy and the environment, critical infrastructure, and health. Based on our view of the funding environment, we believe that we are well positioned to achieve our financial goals for fiscal year 2009."
Summary Operating Results
Revenues for the quarter were $2.37 billion, up 18 percent from $2.01 billion in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. Internal, or non-acquisition, growth represented 14 percentage points of the consolidated growth for the quarter. Key drivers of internal growth for the quarter included new and expanding programs in the intelligence and defense markets, including systems integration and logistics support activities for mine resistant ambush protected (MRAP) vehicles.
Operating income for the quarter was $173 million (7.3 percent of revenue), up 27 percent from $136 million (6.8 percent of revenue) in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. Growth in quarterly operating margin percentage was driven by improved contract fees rates and relatively stable overhead costs more efficiently absorbed over a higher revenue base.
Income from continuing operations for the quarter was $104 million, up 39 percent from $75 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. In addition to the increase in operating income, income from continuing operations benefited by $8 million from other income, including income from joint venture activities and a gain on the sale of two venture capital portfolio investments.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the quarter were $0.25, up 39 percent from $0.18 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, driven by the increase in income from continuing operations and a lower share count compared to the prior year. The diluted share count for the quarter was 413 million, down 1 percent from 418 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, due primarily to share repurchases made over the course of fiscal year 2008 and continuing into the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. Diluted earnings per share, which include discontinued operations, were $0.24 for the quarter, up 26 percent from $0.19 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008.
 
Cash Generation and Capital Deployment
Cash flow from operations for the quarter was $13 million, compared to a use of $129 million of cash flow in support of operations during the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. The year-over-year cash flow improvement was driven by maintaining days sales outstanding (DSO) for the quarter at 73 days and returning to more normative payables performance. In general, cash flow from operations is lowest in the first quarter as the company pays its annual bonuses in this period.
During the quarter the company used $135 million to fund the acquisition of Icon Systems, Inc. and repaid at maturity $100 million of 6.75% notes payable. In addition, the company used $259 million to repurchase approximately 14 million shares, including 12 million shares under the 40 million share stock repurchase program and the remainder in recurring repurchases from employees in settlement of withholding taxes associated with stock option exercises and vesting events. Whether any future repurchases are made and the timing and actual number of shares repurchased under the stock repurchase program will depend on a variety of factors, including share price, corporate capital requirements, and other market conditions. As of April 30, 2008, the company had $662 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1.1 billion in long-term debt.
Mark Sopp, SAIC chief financial officer commented, "Our core business continued its strong momentum with superb top-line growth, significant new business wins, growing profitability, and well-managed working capital. Importantly, we deployed significant amounts of cash in share repurchases and the Icon Systems acquisition to better balance our capital structure and improve shareholder value."
New Business Awards
Net new business bookings totaled $2.5 billion in the first quarter of the fiscal year, representing a book-to-bill ratio of 1.1. Net bookings are calculated as the current period ending backlog plus the current period's revenue less prior period ending backlog and backlog obtained in acquisitions. No bookings value is assigned unless the company has received a signed contract for a priced statement of work.
Large, competitive definite delivery contracts received during the quarter include:
 
 
 
 
In addition, SAIC also won several indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts that are not included in the bookings total. The most notable IDIQ awards during the quarter were:
 
 
 
The company's backlog of signed business orders at the end of first quarter of fiscal year 2009 was $15.1 billion, of which $5.4 billion was funded. Compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, total backlog increased 5 percent and funded backlog increased 15 percent. The negotiated unfunded backlog of $9.7 billion represents the estimated amount to be earned in the future from firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future expected task orders to be awarded under IDIQ or other master agreement contract vehicles.
Forward Guidance
In its March 25, 2008 earnings press release, the company warned that despite strong expected operating performance, reductions in market interest rates could cause the company to fall short of its long-term EPS growth rate goal in fiscal year 2009. Given the company's strong operating performance in the first quarter, recent contract wins, and significant share repurchases, the company now expects to achieve all of its long-term financial goals in fiscal year 2009:
 
 
 
 
About SAIC
SAIC is a FORTUNE 500 scientific, engineering, and technology applications company that uses its deep domain knowledge to solve problems of vital importance to the nation and the world, in national security, energy and the environment, critical infrastructure, and health. The company's approximately 44,000 employees serve customers in the Department of Defense, the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, other U.S. Government civil agencies and selected commercial markets. SAIC had annual revenues of $8.9 billion for its fiscal year ended January 31, 2008. For more information, visit www.saic.com.
SAIC: From Science to Solutions
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this release contain or are based on "forward-looking" information within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "guidance" and similar words or phrases. Forward-looking statements in this release include, among others, estimates of future revenues, earnings, backlog, outstanding shares and cash flows. These statements reflect our belief and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual performance and results may differ materially from the guidance and other forward-looking statements made in this release depending on a variety of factors, including: changes in the U.S. Government defense budget or budgetary priorities or delays in the U.S. budget process; changes in U.S. Government procurement rules and regulations; our compliance with various U.S. Government and other government procurement rules and regulations; the outcome of U.S. Government audits of our company; our ability to win contracts with the U.S. Government and others; our ability to attract, train and retain skilled employees; our ability to maintain relationships with prime contractors, subcontractors and joint venture partners; our ability to obtain required security clearances for our employees; our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with our firm-fixed-price and other contracts; resolution of legal and other disputes with our customers and others; our ability to successfully acquire and integrate businesses; our ability to manage risks associated with our international business; our ability to compete with others in the markets in which we operate; and our ability to execute our business plan effectively and to overcome these and other known and unknown risks that we face. These are only some of the factors that may affect the forward-looking statements contained in this release. For further information concerning risks and uncertainties associated with our business, please refer to the filings we make from time to time with the SEC, including the "Risk Factors," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Legal Proceedings" sections of our latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, which may be viewed or obtained through the Investor Relations section of our Web site at www.saic.com.
All information in this release is as of June 3, 2008. SAIC expressly disclaims any duty to update the guidance or any other forward-looking statement provided in this release to reflect subsequent events, actual results or changes in the company's expectations. SAIC also disclaims any duty to comment upon or correct information that may be contained in reports published by investment analysts or others.
 
CONTACTS:
Investor Relations:
Stuart Davis
703-676-2283
stuart.davis@saic.com
 
 
 
 
 


