FILE:SAI/SAI-8K-20080903160522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 3, 2008, SAIC, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter ended July 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
(SAN DIEGO and MCLEAN, VA)  September 3, 2008  SAIC, Inc. (NYSE: SAI), a leading provider of research, engineering, and technology services and solutions, today announced financial results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, which ended July 31, 2008.
"Our company continued its strong operating momentum in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009," said Ken Dahlberg, SAIC chairman and chief executive officer. "Internal revenue growth, contract execution, and cash collections were all excellent. Our employees' dedicated work is delivering excellent contract execution and critical support to our customers. Our growing labor base and improving business discipline gives us increasing confidence that we can achieve our financial goals for fiscal year 2009."
Summary Operating Results
Revenues for the quarter were $2.56 billion, up 15 percent from $2.22 billion in the second quarter of fiscal year 2008. Internal, or non-acquisition, growth represented 10 percentage points of the consolidated growth for the quarter. Key drivers of internal growth for the quarter included new and expanding programs in the intelligence and defense markets, including systems integration and logistics support activities for mine resistant ambush protected (MRAP) vehicles.
Operating income for the quarter was $186 million (7.3 percent of revenue), up 8 percent from $173 million (7.8 percent of revenue) in the second quarter of fiscal year 2008. Contract fees were slightly higher year-over-year, but operating income was reduced by $6 million as a result of the civil judgment in favor of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, most of which is not deductible for tax purposes, and $3 million due to severance costs associated with efforts to reduce infrastructure in the commercial business segment and preparations to move certain corporate support functions to a shared services center.
Income from continuing operations for the quarter was $104 million, up 5 percent from $99 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2008. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the quarter were $0.26, up 8 percent from $0.24 in the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, driven by the increase in income from continuing operations and a lower share count compared to the prior year. The diluted share count for the quarter was 403 million, down 4 percent from 418 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, due primarily to share repurchases made over the course of fiscal year 2008 and continuing into the second quarter of fiscal year 2009.
Diluted earnings per share, which include discontinued operations, were $0.27 for the quarter, down 13 percent from $0.31 in the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, which included a $31 million pre-tax gain in discontinued operations on the portion of the business disposed in the AMSEC reorganization transaction.
Cash Generation and Capital Deployment
Cash flow from operations for the quarter was $229 million (or 2.2 times income from continuing operations), down 11 percent from $257 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2008. The strong cash collections were driven primarily by the improvement in days sales outstanding (DSO) from 73 days in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 to 66 days in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. The year-over-year decline in cash flow from operations primarily results from an exceptional reduction in DSOfrom 73 days to 64 daysin the second quarter of fiscal year 2008.
During the quarter, the company used $65 million to fund the acquisition of SM Consulting, Inc. In addition, the company used $157 million to repurchase approximately 8.0 million shares, including 7.3 million shares under the 40 million share stock repurchase program and the remainder in recurring repurchases from employees in settlement of withholding taxes associated with stock option exercises and vesting events. Whether any future repurchases are made and the timing and actual number of shares repurchased under the stock repurchase program will depend on a variety of factors, including share price, corporate capital requirements, and other market conditions. As of July 31, 2008, the company had $692 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1.1 billion in long-term debt.
Mark Sopp, SAIC chief financial officer commented, "Our core business continues to execute well, not only in winning and executing important work but also collecting and efficiently deploying our cash on acquisitions and share repurchases. Despite the non-recurring charges we took in the second quarter, we still expect to attain our fiscal year 2009 operating margin improvement goal of 20-30 basis points through strong labor growth and utilization coupled with higher border and port security product deliveries expected in the second half of the year."
New Business Awards
Net new business bookings totaled $3.3 billion in the second quarter of the fiscal year, representing a book-to-bill ratio of 1.3. Net bookings are calculated as the current period ending backlog plus the current period's revenue less prior period ending backlog and backlog obtained in acquisitions. No bookings value is assigned unless the company has received a signed contract for a priced statement of work.
Large, competitive definite delivery contracts received during the quarter include:
 
 
 
 
In addition, SAIC also won several indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts that are not included in the bookings total. The most notable IDIQ awards during the quarter were:
 
 
 
The company's backlog of signed business orders at the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2009 was $15.9 billion, of which $5.4 billion was funded. Compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, total backlog increased 13 percent and funded backlog increased 20 percent. The negotiated unfunded backlog of $10.5 billion represents the estimated amount to be earned in the future from firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future expected task orders to be awarded under IDIQ or other master agreement contract vehicles.
Forward Guidance
Given the company's strong operating results in the first half of the year, recent contract wins, and share repurchases to date, the company expects to achieve all of its long-term financial goals in fiscal year 2009:
 
 
 
About SAIC
SAIC is a FORTUNE 500 scientific, engineering, and technology applications company that uses its deep domain knowledge to solve problems of vital importance to the nation and the world, in national security, energy and the environment, critical infrastructure, and health. The company's approximately 44,000 employees serve customers in the Department of Defense, the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, other U.S. Government civil agencies and selected commercial markets. SAIC had annual revenues of $8.9 billion for its fiscal year ended January 31, 2008. For more information, visit www.saic.com.
SAIC: From Science to Solutions
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this release contain or are based on "forward-looking" information within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "guidance" and similar words or phrases. Forward-looking statements in this release include, among others, estimates of future revenues, earnings, backlog, outstanding shares and cash flows. These statements reflect our belief and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual performance and results may differ materially from the guidance and other forward-looking statements made in this release depending on a variety of factors, including: changes in the U.S. Government defense budget or budgetary priorities or delays in the U.S. budget process; changes in U.S. Government procurement rules and regulations; our compliance with various U.S. Government and other government procurement rules and regulations; the outcome of U.S. Government audits of our company; our ability to win contracts with the U.S. Government and others; our ability to attract, train and retain skilled employees; our ability to maintain relationships with prime contractors, subcontractors and joint venture partners; our ability to obtain required security clearances for our employees; our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with our firm-fixed-price and other contracts; resolution of legal and other disputes with our customers and others; our ability to successfully acquire and integrate businesses; our ability to manage risks associated with our international business; our ability to compete with others in the markets in which we operate; and our ability to execute our business plan effectively and to overcome these and other known and unknown risks that we face. These are only some of the factors that may affect the
forward-looking statements contained in this release. For further information concerning risks and uncertainties associated with our business, please refer to the filings we make from time to time with the SEC, including the "Risk Factors," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Legal Proceedings" sections of our latest annual report on Forms 10-K and 10-K/A and quarterly report on Forms 10-Q and 10-Q/A, which may be viewed or obtained through the Investor Relations section of our Web site at www.saic.com.
All information in this release is as of September 3, 2008. SAIC expressly disclaims any duty to update the guidance or any other forward-looking statement provided in this release to reflect subsequent events, actual results or changes in the company's expectations. SAIC also disclaims any duty to comment upon or correct information that may be contained in reports published by investment analysts or others.
CONTACTS:
Investor Relations:
Stuart Davis
703-676-2283
stuart.davis@saic.com
Media Relations:
 
 
 
 


