FILE:SAI/SAI-8K-20090608081459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Larry B. Prior has informed the Company of his decision to resign as Chief Operating Officer effective as of June 12, 2009. A copy of the press release issued by the Company regarding Mr. Prior's departure is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d)
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
(SAN DIEGO and McLEAN, Va.) June 8, 2009 SAIC, Inc. (NYSE: SAI), a scientific, engineering, and technology applications company, today announced the resignation of chief operating officer (COO) Lawrence B. Prior III, effective June 12, 2009.
SAIC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ken Dahlberg will assume COO duties pending a decision on a successor.
"Throughout his tenure, Larry has been an important part of the company's success," said Dahlberg. "He has helped expand current business and improve the company's operational performance. We thank him for his contributions and wish him well in his future endeavors."
Prior joined SAIC in 2004. Before being appointed COO in 2007, he served as president of SAIC's Intelligence, Security and Technology Group and senior vice president for federal business.
About SAIC
SAIC is a FORTUNE 500 scientific, engineering, and technology applications company that uses its deep domain knowledge to solve problems of vital importance to the nation and the world, in national security, energy and the environment, critical infrastructure, and health. The company's approximately 45,000 employees serve customers in the U.S. Department of Defense, the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, other U.S. Government civil agencies and selected commercial markets. SAIC had annual revenues of $10.1 billion for its fiscal year ended January 31, 2009. For more information, visit www.saic.com. SAIC: From Science to Solutions
Statements in this announcement, other than historical data and information, constitute forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors could cause our actual results, performance, achievements, or industry results to be very different from the results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Some of these factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in SAIC's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended January 31, 2009, and other such filings that SAIC makes with the SEC from time to time. Due to such uncertainties and risks, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
 


