FILE:SAI/SAI-8K-20090929124859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d)    Mr. Thomas F. Frist, III has accepted an invitation to be a director of SAIC, Inc., effective on September 23, 2009, to fill a vacancy on the Board of Directors.
Mr. Frist is a principal of Frist Capital L.L.C., a private investment vehicle for Mr. Frist and certain related persons and has held such position since 1998. Prior to that, Mr. Frist co-managed FS Partners, L.L.C. and worked at Rainwater, Inc. in Fort Worth, Texas and in New York. Mr. Frist has served on the Board of Directors of HCA, Inc. since 2006. From 1999 to 2006, Mr. Frist served on the board of Triad Hospitals, Inc.
As a director, Mr. Frist will be entitled to receive the standard remuneration provided to the company's non-management directors, including (i) an annual cash retainer of $50,000, (ii) fees of $2,000 for each meeting of the Board that he attends and for each meeting of any committee of which he is a member that he attends, and (iii) an annual grant of equity awards valued at approximately $150,000, two-thirds in the form of restricted stock and one-third in the form of stock options. Mr. Frist has not yet been appointed to any committees of the Board of Directors. There are no related party transactions between Mr. Frist and the company.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


