FILE:SAI/SAI-8K-20091117123239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 16, 2009, SAIC, Inc. completed the reclassification of our class A preferred stock into common stock by filing an amended and restated certificate of incorporation with the Delaware Secretary of State. Upon the effectiveness of this filing, each share of our class A preferred stock with 10 votes per share was automatically converted into one share of common stock with one vote per share. The proposal to automatically convert each share of our class A preferred stock into one share of common stock was previously approved by our stockholders at our Annual Meeting of Stockholders on June 19, 2009. Following the effective date of the reclassification, all of the outstanding shares of common stock issued as a result of the reclassification will be listed on the NYSE using the "SAI" ticker symbol currently assigned to the common stock on the NYSE. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation in the form filed with the Delaware Secretary of State is attached as Exhibit 3.1, and a copy of the press release announcing the reclassification is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
SAIC, Inc., a Delaware corporation, hereby certifies as follows:
1. The name of the Corporation is SAIC, Inc.
2. The original Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on August 12, 2005.
3. This Restated Certificate of Incorporation amends and restates the provisions of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation as heretofore amended and supplemented.
4. This Restated Certificate of Incorporation was duly adopted in accordance with Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "").
DGCL
5. This Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall become effective at 5:00 p.m., eastern time, on November 16, 2009 (the "").
Effective Time
6. Effective upon the Effective Time, the text of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
 The name of the Corporation is SAIC, Inc.
FIRST: NAME.
 The address of the registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name of its registered agent at that address is The Corporation Trust Company.
SECOND: ADDRESS.
 The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the DGCL.
THIRD: PURPOSE.
FOURTH: CAPITALIZATION
(A) .
Authorized Capitalization
The Corporation is authorized to issue two classes of capital stock to be designated, respectively, "" and "." The total number of shares of capital stock of all classes which the Corporation shall have the authority to issue is 2,010,000,000 shares, each with a par value of $0.0001 per share, of which:
Common Stock
Preferred Stock
(1) 2,000,000,000 shares shall be Common Stock; and
(2) 10,000,000 shares shall be Preferred Stock.
Effective upon the effectiveness of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation under the DGCL, (i) each share of Class A Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior thereto shall be reclassified, automatically and without further action on the part of the any holder thereof or otherwise, as one share of Common Stock, and (ii) each fractional share of Class A Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior thereto shall be reclassified, automatically and without further action on the part of the any holder thereof or otherwise, as an equivalent fractional share of Common Stock.
The number of authorized shares of any class or classes of stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the DGCL or any corresponding provision hereinafter enacted.
(B) .
Preferred Stock
The Board of Directors is expressly authorized to provide for the issuance of all or any shares of the Preferred Stock, in one or more series, and to fix for each such series the number of shares thereof and such voting powers, full or limited, or no voting powers, and such distinctive designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as shall be stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issuance of such series and as may be permitted by the DGCL, including, without limitation, the authority to provide that any such series may be (a) subject to redemption at such time or times and at such price or prices; (b) entitled to receive dividends (which may be cumulative or non-cumulative) at such rates, on such conditions, and at such times, and payable in preference to, or in such relation to, the dividends payable on any other class or classes or any other series; (c) entitled to such rights upon the dissolution of, or upon any distribution of the assets of, the Corporation; or (d) convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or classes of stock, or of any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock, of the Corporation at such price or prices or at such rates of exchange and with such adjustments; all as may be stated in such resolution or resolutions.
 Elections of directors need not be by written ballot unless the Bylaws of the Corporation shall otherwise provide.
FIFTH: BALLOT.
 In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, repeal, alter, amend and rescind the Bylaws of the Corporation. No section of the Bylaws shall be adopted, repealed, altered, amended or rescinded by the stockholders of the Corporation except by the vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of voting stock of the Corporation.
SIXTH: BYLAWS.
SEVENTH: THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
 The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be not less than ten (10) and not more than eighteen (18), and the exact number shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
(A) .
Number of Directors
At each annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation commencing at the annual meeting of stockholders next following the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, all directors shall be elected for a term expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders, by such stockholders having the right to vote on such election. The term of each director serving as and immediately following the date of the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders shall expire at the next annual meeting of stockholders after such date, notwithstanding that such director may have been elected for a term that extended beyond the date of such annual meeting of stockholders. Each director shall serve until the director's term expires in accordance with the foregoing provisions or until the director's prior resignation, death, disqualification or removal from office, provided that each director shall serve notwithstanding the expiration of the director's term until the director's successor shall be duly elected and qualified.
(B) .
Term
 Unless otherwise restricted by applicable law, any director or the entire Board may be removed with or without cause by the holders of two-thirds of the total voting power of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors.
(C) .
Removal
 At any election of directors of the Corporation, a holder of any class or series of stock then entitled to vote in such election shall be entitled to as many votes as shall equal the number of votes which (except for this Section (D) as to cumulative voting) such holder would be entitled to cast for the election of directors with respect to such holder's shares of stock multiplied by the number of directors to be elected in the election in which such holder's class or series of shares is entitled to vote, and such holder may cast all of such votes for a single director or may distribute them among the number to be voted for, or for any two or more of them as such holder may see fit.
(D) .
Cumulative Voting
 Any vacancy in the Board of Directors, whether because of resignation, death, disqualification, removal, an increase in the number of directors, or any other cause, may only be filled by vote of the majority of the remaining directors, although less than a quorum. The term of any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall expire at the next annual meeting
(E) .
Vacancies
 
of stockholders. Each director shall serve until the director's term expires in accordance with the foregoing provisions or until the director's prior resignation, death, disqualification or removal from office, provided that each director shall serve notwithstanding the expiration of the director's term until the director's successor shall be duly elected and qualified.
EIGHTH: MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS.
 No action shall be taken by the stockholders except at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, and no action may be effected by any consent in writing in lieu of a meeting of stockholders.
(A) .
No Action by Written Consent
 Special meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Board of Directors, or by a majority of the members of the Board of Directors, or by a committee of the Board of Directors which has been duly designated by the Board of Directors and whose powers and authority, as provided in a resolution of the Board of Directors or in the Bylaws of the Corporation, include the power to call such meetings, but such special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons; provided, however, that, if and to the extent that any special meeting of stockholders may be called by any other person or persons specified in any provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any amendment thereto or any certificate filed under Section 151(g) of the DGCL (or its successor statute as in effect from time to time hereafter), then such special meeting may also be called by the person or persons, in the manner, at the times and for the purposes so specified.
(B) .
Special Meetings
 The Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred on stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions set forth in Articles FIFTH, SIXTH, SEVENTH, EIGHTH and this Article NINTH may not be repealed or amended in any respect unless such repeal or amendment is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of voting stock of the Corporation.
NINTH: AMENDMENT.
TENTH: BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
(A) For the purposes of this Article TENTH:
(1) The term "" shall mean any individual, firm, limited liability company, partnership, limited partnership, corporation or other entity.
person
(2) The term "" shall mean any corporation more than fifty percent (50%) of any class of equity security of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation.
Subsidiary
(3) The term "" shall mean assets having a fair market value or book value, whichever is greater, equal to more than ten percent of the fair market value or book value, whichever is greater, of the total assets of a person as of the end of its most recent fiscal year ending prior to the time the determination is made.
Substantial Part of the Assets
(4) A person shall be a "" of any shares of voting stock of the Corporation (a) which such person or any of its "" or "" (as defined on the date of the adoption hereof in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the )) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, (b) which such person or any of its "" or "" has, directly or indirectly, (i) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise or (ii) the right to vote or direct the voting of pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, that a person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any security by reason of such agreement, arrangement or understanding if the agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report), or (c) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other person with which such person or any of its "" or "" has any such agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of any shares of such voting stock.
Beneficial Owner
affiliates
associates
"Exchange Act"
affiliates
associates
provided, however,
affiliates
associates
 
(5) The term "" shall mean any person (except any profit-sharing, employee stock ownership or other employee benefit plan of the Corporation or any Subsidiary or any trustee of or fiduciary with respect to any such plan when acting in such capacity) which is the Beneficial Owner (as herein defined) of five percent (5%) or more of the total voting power of all of the outstanding shares of voting stock of the Corporation.
Related Person
(6) For the purposes of determining whether a person is a Related Person, the number of shares of voting stock of the Corporation deemed to be outstanding shall include all shares deemed owned by such person through application of Section (A)(4), but shall not include any other shares of voting stock which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.
(7) The term "" shall mean (a) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or a Subsidiary with or into a Related Person, (b) any sale, lease, exchange, transfer, mortgage, pledge or other disposition (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) of all or any Substantial Part of the Assets (as herein defined) of a Related Person to the Corporation or to a Subsidiary, (c) any sale, lease, exchange, transfer, mortgage, pledge or other disposition (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) of all or any Substantial Part of the Assets of the Corporation (including without limitation any securities of a Subsidiary) to a Related Person, (d) the issuance of any securities of the Corporation or a Subsidiary to a Related Person, (e) the acquisition by the Corporation or a Subsidiary of any securities of a Related Person, (f) any reclassification of the securities (including any reverse stock split) or recapitalization of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any Subsidiary or any other transaction (whether or not with or into or otherwise involving a Related Person) which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate amount of the outstanding shares of any class of equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary which is directly or indirectly owned by a Related Person, (g) any loan or other extension of credit by the Corporation or a Subsidiary to a Related Person or any guarantee by the Corporation or a Subsidiary of any loan or other extension of credit by any person to a Related Person, (h) the adoption of any plan or proposal for the dissolution, liquidation or termination of the Corporation or any Subsidiary proposed by or on behalf of a Related Person and (i) any agreement, contract or other arrangement providing for any of the foregoing Business Combination transactions.
Business Combination
(8) The term "" shall mean any member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation who is unaffiliated with the Related Person and was a member of the Board prior to the time that the Related Person became a Related Person, and any successor of a Continuing Director who is unaffiliated with the Related Person and is recommended or elected to succeed a Continuing Director by a majority of Continuing Directors, provided that such recommendation or election shall only be effective if made at a meeting at which a Continuing Director Quorum is present.
Continuing Director
(9) The term "" shall mean a majority of the Continuing Directors capable of exercising the powers conferred upon them under the provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Corporation or by law.
Continuing Director Quorum
(B) The approval or authorization of any Business Combination (as herein defined) of the Corporation with any Related Person (as herein defined) shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of (i) at least 80% of the total voting power of all of the outstanding shares of voting stock of the Corporation and (ii) a majority of the total voting power of all of the outstanding shares of voting stock of the Corporation other than shares of voting stock of which such Related Person is the Beneficial Owner (as herein defined). Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that the affirmative vote of a lesser percentage of stockholders may be specified, by law or otherwise.
 
(C) The provisions of this Article TENTH shall not be applicable to any particular Business Combination, and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote, if any, as may be required by law or otherwise, if:
(1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall by resolution have approved or ratified a memorandum of understanding approving such Business Combination with such Related Person prior to the time such Related Person became the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of five percent (5%) or more of the voting shares of the Corporation; or
(2) The Business Combination shall have been approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors (as herein defined) at a meeting at which a Continuing Director Quorum (as herein defined) is present; or
(3) The Business Combination involves solely the Corporation and a Subsidiary (as herein defined) in which a Related Person has no direct or indirect interest (other than an interest arising solely because of control of the Corporation); provided, that if the Corporation is not the surviving corporation, (a) each stockholder of the Corporation receives the same type of consideration in such transaction in proportion to such stockholder's stockholdings, (b) the provisions of Articles SIXTH, SEVENTH, EIGHTH, NINTH, TENTH and ELEVENTH of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation are continued in effect or adopted by such surviving corporation as part of its articles of incorporation or certificate of incorporation, as the case may be, and such articles or certificate have no provisions inconsistent with such provisions, and (c) the provisions of the Corporation's Bylaws are continued in effect or adopted by such surviving corporation.
(D) Nothing contained in this Article TENTH shall be construed to relieve any Related Person of any fiduciary obligation imposed upon it by law.
(E) A majority of the Continuing Directors shall have the power and duty to determine, on the basis of information then known to them, whether (a) any person is a Related Person, (b) any Business Combination relates to a Substantial Part of the Assets of any person and (c) any director is a Continuing Director acting at a meeting at which a Continuing Director Quorum is or was present. Any such determination by a majority of the Continuing Directors shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes of this Article TENTH.
(F) The stockholders of the Corporation shall be entitled to statutory appraisal rights to the maximum extent permissible under Section 262 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, notwithstanding any exception otherwise provided therein, with respect to any Business Combination with a Related Person requiring the affirmative vote of the holders of outstanding stock of the Corporation having at least 80% of the voting power of the Corporation unless such vote is not required pursuant to Section C.
(G) No Business Combination subject to the provisions of Section B of this Article TENTH shall, unless such Business Combination shall be the subject of one of the exceptions provided for in Sections C(1), (2) or (3), be consummated, and the Corporation shall not enter into any such Business Combination, unless the agreement relating to such Business Combination shall provide that each stockholder of the Corporation who has voted against the Business Combination shall receive, at the time of the consummation of such Business Combination and in exchange for such stockholder's shares of the capital stock of the Corporation, at the option of such stockholder, either (i) the consideration offered by the Related Persons as part of the Business Combination, or (ii) consideration per share of capital stock of the Corporation held by such stockholder (either in cash or in the same form and of the same kind as the consideration paid by the Related Person in acquiring shares of capital stock of the Corporation, at the option of such stockholder) in an amount not less than the greater of the following:
(1) The highest per share price (including brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by such Related Person in acquiring any of the capital stock of the Corporation, or
(2) A price bearing the same percentage relationship to the market price of the capital stock of the Corporation immediately prior to the announcement of the Business Combination as the highest price per share (including brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) of the capital stock of the Corporation previously paid by such Related Person for shares of capital stock of the Corporation bears to the market price of the capital stock of the Corporation immediately prior to the time such Related Person initially acquired any shares of capital stock of the Corporation notwithstanding that such person was not a Related Person at the time of such initial acquisition.
(H) Notice of any proposed alteration, amendment, rescission or repeal of this Article TENTH shall be included in the notice of any annual or special meeting of stockholders at which such proposal is to be considered.
 
(I) The provisions set forth in this Article TENTH may not be amended, altered, changed or repealed nor may any provision inconsistent with such provisions be added to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation except upon the affirmative vote of the holders of (i) at least eighty percent (80%) of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of voting stock of the Corporation and (ii) a majority of the total voting power of all of the outstanding shares of voting stock of the Corporation other than shares of voting stock which are Beneficially Owned by a Related Person which has directly or indirectly proposed such amendment, alteration, change or repeal; , that any or all of such provisions may be amended, altered, changed or repealed, and any such new provisions may be added, upon the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding voting securities of the Corporation, if such amendment, change, alteration or repeal or additional provision shall first have been approved and recommended by a resolution adopted by a majority vote of the Continuing Directors at a meeting at which a Continuing Director Quorum was present.
provided, however
ELEVENTH: INDEMNIFICATION AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
(A) .
Indemnification
 The Corporation shall indemnify its directors and elected and appointed officers to the fullest extent authorized or permitted by the DGCL, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, and such right to indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer of the Corporation and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that, except for proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any director or officer (or his or her heirs, executors or administrators) in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
(1) 
Indemnification of Directors and Officers.
 The Corporation shall to the fullest extent not prohibited by applicable law pay the expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by past or present directors and officers of the Corporation in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition; , that, to the extent required by law, such payment of expenses in advance of the final disposition of the proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by such persons to repay all amounts advanced if it should be ultimately determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article ELEVENTH or otherwise.
(2)
 Advancement of Expenses.
provided, however
 The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, provide rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to employees and agents of the Corporation who are not directors or officers similar to those conferred in this Section (A) to directors and officers of the Corporation.
(3)
 Indemnification of Employees and Agents.
The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in this Section (A) shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, any statute, agreement, insurance policy, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors, or otherwise.
 No director shall be personally liable to the Corporation or any of its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (1) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (2) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (3) pursuant to Section 174 of the DGCL or (4) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit.
(B) .
Limitation on Liability
 Any repeal or modification of Section (A) shall not adversely affect any rights to indemnification and advancement of expenses of a director or officer of the Corporation existing pursuant to Section (A) with respect to any acts or omissions occurring prior to such repeal or modification. Any repeal or modification of Sections (A) or (B) shall not have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any director of the Corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such repeal or modification.
(C) .
Repeal or Modification of Rights
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, SAIC, Inc. has caused this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be executed in its corporate name by its Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary as of this 16th day of November, 2009.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
(McLEAN, Va. and SAN DIEGO) Nov. 17, 2009  SAIC, Inc. (NYSE: SAI), a scientific, engineering, and technology applications company, announced it has completed the reclassification of its class A preferred stock into common stock. As a result of the reclassification, each share of class A preferred stock with 10 votes per share was automatically converted into one share of common stock with one vote per share. No class A preferred shares remain outstanding. SAIC's stockholders approved the reclassification at the company's annual meeting June 19, 2009.
The reclassification became effective yesterday. SAIC common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "SAI."
About SAIC
SAIC is a FORTUNE 500 scientific, engineering, and technology applications company that uses its deep domain knowledge to solve problems of vital importance to the nation and the world, in national security, energy and the environment, critical infrastructure, and health. The company's approximately 45,000 employees serve customers in the U.S. Department of Defense, the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, other U.S. Government civil agencies and selected commercial markets. Headquartered in McLean, Va., SAIC had annual revenues of $10.1 billion for its fiscal year ended January 31, 2009. For more information, visit www.saic.com. SAIC: From Science To Solutions
Statements in this announcement, other than historical data and information, constitute forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. A number of factors could cause our actual results, performance, achievements, or industry results to be very different from the results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Some of these factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in SAIC's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended January 31, 2009, and other such filings that SAIC makes with the SEC from time to time. Due to such uncertainties and risks, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
 


