FILE:SAI/SAI-8K-20091208161226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 8, 2009, SAIC, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended October 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d)
Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1    Press Release dated December 8, 2009 issued by SAIC, Inc.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
(MCLEAN, VA)  December 8, 2009  SAIC, Inc. (NYSE: SAI), a scientific, engineering, and technology applications company, today announced financial results for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, which ended October 31, 2009.
"We continue to deliver world class solutions to our customers and financial results consistent with our goals. The third quarter reflects strong earnings per share growth driven by significantly improved operating margins," said Walt Havenstein, SAIC chief executive officer. "Internal revenue growth was lower than we've recently experienced; in part from the expected effects of an acquisition and the effects of fewer new contract starts in recent quarters. Our overall view for fiscal year 2010 is essentially unchanged; we expect to continue delivering solid program execution and perform within all of our long-term financial goals."
Summary Operating Results
Revenues for the quarter were $2.77 billion, up 5 percent from $2.63 billion in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. Internal revenue growth, which includes year-over-year performance of acquisitions, represented 1 percentage point of the consolidated revenue growth for the quarter. Internal revenue growth was adversely affected by the year-over-year decline in revenues of an acquisition made in the third quarter. Internal revenue growth would have been 4 percent exclusive of this acquisition. Internal revenue growth was also adversely affected by fewer new contract starts, particularly in the intelligence business area, resulting from lower bookings in the first half of the year.
Operating income for the quarter was $233 million (8.4 percent of revenue), up 14 percent from $205 million (7.8 percent of revenue) in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. Growth in quarterly operating income margin percentage was driven by strong contract performance and continued improvements in cost efficiency. Income from continuing operations for the quarter was $135 million, up 14 percent from $118 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009.
Diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations for the quarter were $0.34, up 17 percent from $0.29 in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, driven by the increase in income from continuing operations and a lower share count compared to the prior year quarter. The diluted share count for the quarter was 388 million, down 3 percent from 398 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, due primarily to share repurchases made over the last four quarters. Diluted earnings per share, which include discontinued operations, were $0.34 for the quarter, up 17 percent from $0.29 in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009.
Cash Generation and Capital Deployment
Cash flow provided by operations for the quarter was $250 million (or 1.9 times income from continuing operations), up 34% from $186 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. The increase in cash flow from operations primarily resulted from one fewer payroll cycle in the current year quarter. Days sales outstanding were 70 days in the quarter, compared to 69 days in the third quarter of fiscal 2009.
During the quarter, the company used $158 million to fund the acquisition of R.W. Beck Group, Inc., a leading provider of business and technical consulting services in engineering, energy and infrastructure, and to acquire a minority stake in and form a strategic alliance with BPL Global, Ltd., a smart grid technology company. The strategic alliance is focused on developing and deploying solutions that optimize and improve the efficiency and reliability of the electric power grid.
During the quarter, the company used $55 million to repurchase approximately 3.1 million shares including 2.7 million under the company's stock repurchase program and the remainder in recurring repurchases from employees in settlement of withholding taxes associated with stock option exercises and vesting events. As of October 31, 2009, the company had $991 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1.1 billion in long-term debt.
New Business Awards
Net new business bookings totaled $3.0 billion in the third quarter, representing a book-to-bill ratio of 1.1. Net bookings are calculated as the period's ending backlog plus the period's revenues less the prior period's ending backlog and less the backlog obtained in acquisitions during the period.
Large, competitive definite delivery contract awards received during the quarter include:
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, SAIC also won several indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) contracts that are not included in net bookings. The most notable IDIQ awards during the quarter were:
 
 
 
The company's backlog of signed business orders at the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 was $16.6 billion, of which $5.5 billion was funded. As compared to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, total backlog and funded backlog both decreased 3 percent. The negotiated unfunded backlog of $11.1 billion is the estimated amount of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been authorized and unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedule or other master agreement contract vehicles.
 
Forward Guidance
Given its operating performance through the third quarter of the fiscal year, the company expects results to be consistent with its long-term financial goals during fiscal year 2010. These goals are:
 
 
 
With respect to fiscal year 2011, starting on February 1, 2010, the company also expects its performance to be consistent with these financial goals. However, with the longer procurement cycle and greater pressure on Federal discretionary spending due to concerns about the deficit, internal revenue growth is expected to be on the low end of the goal range. As a result, growth in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations is also expected on the low end of the goal range.
"While we will vigorously pursue achieving our long-term financial goals, the pace of awards coupled with the tougher environment only supports expected revenue growth performance at the low end of our targeted range," said Mark W. Sopp, SAIC chief financial officer. "Also, while we expect to continue to improve operating margins again next year, internal revenue growth at the low end of the targeted range will tend to correspond to earnings per share growth at the lower end of the targeted range as well. That said, we are focused on generating long-term shareholder returns through more investment in growth initiatives and rationally deploying our capital."
About SAIC
SAIC is a FORTUNE 500 scientific, engineering, and technology applications company that uses its deep domain knowledge to solve problems of vital importance to the nation and the world, in national security, energy and the environment, critical infrastructure, and health. The company's approximately 45,000 employees serve customers in the U.S. Department of Defense, the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, other U.S. Government civil agencies and selected commercial markets. Headquartered in McLean, Va., SAIC had annual revenues of $10.1 billion for its fiscal year ended January 31, 2009. For more information, visit www.saic.com. SAIC: From Science to Solutions
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this release contain or are based on "forward-looking" information within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as "expects," "intends," "plans" "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "guidance," and similar words or phrases. Forward-looking statements in this release include, among others, estimates of future revenues, earnings, backlog, outstanding shares and cash flows. These statements reflect our belief and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual performance and results may differ materially from the guidance and other forward-looking statements made in this release depending on a variety of factors, including: changes in the U.S. Government defense budget or budgetary priorities or delays in the U.S. budget process; changes in U.S. Government procurement rules and regulations; our compliance with various U.S. Government and other government procurement rules and regulations; the outcome of U.S. Government reviews, audits and investigations of our company; our ability to win contracts with the U.S. Government and others; our ability to attract, train and retain skilled employees; our ability to maintain relationships with prime contractors, subcontractors and joint venture partners; our ability to obtain required security clearances for our employees; our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with our firm-fixed-price and other contracts; resolution of legal and other disputes with our customers and others; our ability to successfully acquire and integrate businesses; our ability to manage risks associated with our international business; our ability to compete with others in the markets in which we operate; and our ability to execute our business plan effectively and to overcome these and other known and unknown risks that we face. These are only some of the factors that may affect the forward-looking statements contained in this release. For further information concerning risks and uncertainties associated with our business, please refer to the filings we make from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Legal Proceedings" sections of our latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, which may be viewed or obtained through the Investor Relations section of our Web site at www.saic.com.
All information in this release is as of December 8, 2009. SAIC expressly disclaims any duty to update the guidance or any other forward-looking statement provided in this release to reflect subsequent events, actual results or changes in the company's expectations. SAIC also disclaims any duty to comment upon or correct information that may be contained in reports published by investment analysts or others.
CONTACTS:
Investor Relations:
Mark Sopp
703-676-2283
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this release, we refer to internal revenue growth percentage, which is a non-GAAP financial measure that may be required to be reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We calculate our internal revenue growth percentage by comparing our reported revenue for the current year period to the revenue for the prior year period adjusted to include the actual revenue of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period before acquisition. This calculation has the effect of adding revenue for the acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period to our prior year period reported revenue.
We use internal revenue growth percentage as an indicator of how successful we are at growing our base business and how successful we are at growing the revenues of the businesses that we acquire. Our integration of acquired businesses allows our current management to leverage business development capabilities, drive internal resource collaboration, utilize access to markets and qualifications, and refine strategies to realize synergies, which benefits both acquired and existing businesses. As a result, the performance of the combined enterprise post-acquisition is an important measurement. In addition, as a means of rewarding successful integration and growth of acquired businesses, and not acquisitions themselves, incentive compensation for our executives and the broader employee population is based, in part, on achievement of revenue targets linked to internal revenue growth.
The limitation of this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is that internal revenue growth percentage is one of two components of the total revenue growth percentage, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We address this limitation by presenting the total revenue growth percentage next to or near disclosures of internal revenue growth percentage. This financial measure is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. The method that we use to calculate internal revenue growth percentage is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies.
Internal revenue growth percentages for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2009 were calculated as follows:
 


