FILE:SAI/SAI-8K-20101222130903.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 20, 2010, SAIC, Inc. (the "Company") issued $450 million aggregate principal amount of its 4.450% Notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes") and $300 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.950% Notes due 2040 (the "2040 Notes" and, together with the 2020 Notes, the "Notes"). In connection with the issuance of the Notes, the Company entered into an indenture, dated as of December 20, 2010, among the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiary Science Applications International Corporation (the "Guarantor") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Indenture"). The Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Guarantor. The Notes and related guarantee were offered and sold either to "qualified institutional buyers" in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or, outside the United States, to persons other than "U.S. persons" in compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. Accordingly, the offer and sale of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and the Notes may not be offered or sold except in compliance with the Securities Act.
The Indenture contains limitations on liens, limitations on sale and lease-back transactions and limitations on mergers, consolidations and sales of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the Guarantor. The Indenture also contains customary events of default, including (1) a default in any payment of interest on any debt security when it becomes due and the default continues for a period of 30 days or more; (2) a default in the payment of principal, or premium or sinking fund installment, if any, on any debt security when due; (3) a default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant in the Indenture (other than defaults specified in (1) or (2) above) and the default or breach continues for a period of 90 days or more after the Company receives written notice from the Trustee or the Company and the Trustee receives notice from the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding debt securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class); (4) the guarantee of the Guarantor ceasing to be (or being claimed by the Guarantor to not be) in full force and effect; and (5) certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, administration or similar proceedings with respect to the Company, the Guarantor or any material subsidiary of the Company.
The Indenture and the debt securities issued thereunder may be modified or amended by Company, the Guarantor and the trustee with the consent of holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the outstanding debt securities under the Indenture affected by the amendment or modification (voting together as a single class); provided, however, that no modification or amendment may be made without consent of the holder of each outstanding debt security with respect to certain items, including, but not limited to, the stated maturity, any reduction in the principal amount or rate of interest, if any, payable on the debt securities and other similar items related to the terms of the specific debt securities.
The Company may, without notice to or the consent of holders of the debt securities, issue other series of debt securities under the Indenture in the future on terms and conditions different from the Notes.
The Notes are the Company's unsecured and unsubordinated obligations and will rank equally with all of the Company's other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness from time to time outstanding. The 2020 Notes and 2040 Notes mature on December 1, 2020 and December 1, 2040, respectively. Interest accrues on the Notes from December 20, 2010 and is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning on June 1, 2011. At its option, the Company may redeem the Notes in whole or in part at any time or from time to time prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest, including Additional Interest (as defined below) thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined in the form of Notes) plus 20 basis points with respect to the 2020 Notes and 25 basis points with respect to the 2040 Notes, plus accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption. If the Company experiences certain kinds of change of control specified in the form of Notes, it may be required to offer to repurchase all or any part of the Notes from the holders thereof at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase.
 
In connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes and related guarantee, the Company, the Guarantor and the initial purchasers of the Notes entered into a Registration Rights Agreement, dated December 20, 2010 (the "Registration Rights Agreement"). The Registration Rights Agreement provides for the benefit of the holders of the Notes that the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to file with the Securities Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a registration statement relating to an offer to exchange the Notes (and related guarantee) for an issue of notes (and related guarantee) that are registered with the SEC and are identical in all material respects to the Notes (and related guarantee) (except that the notes will not contain terms with respect to transfer restrictions and will not provide for any increase in the interest rate thereon under the circumstances described below) no later than 270 days after the issue date of the Notes. The Company has agreed to keep the exchange offer open for not less than 20 business days after the date that notice of the exchange offer is mailed to the holders of the Notes but will, in any event, use its reasonable best efforts to cause the exchange offer to be consummated no later than 365 days after the issue date of the Notes. Under certain circumstances, including if an exchange offer is not completed within the required timeframe, the Company must use reasonable best efforts to file with the SEC a shelf registration statement covering resale of the Notes and use reasonable best efforts to cause it to be declared effective before the later of (x) 365 days after the issue date of the Notes and (y) 90 days after so required or requested under the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, and to keep it effective until the earlier of six months after the first day that such shelf registration statement becomes effective or all of the applicable Notes have been sold thereunder or are no longer entitled to registration rights under the Registration Rights Agreement. If (i) the Company fails to file any registration statement required to be filed by the Registration Rights Agreement on or prior to the applicable deadline, (ii) any registration statement is not declared effective on or prior to the applicable effectiveness deadline, (iii) the exchange offer is not consummated on or prior to the applicable deadline, or (iv) any shelf registration statement required to be filed by the Registration Rights Agreement has been declared effective but thereafter ceases to be effective (at any time the Company is obligated to maintain the effectiveness thereof) without being succeeded within 30 days by an additional shelf registration statement filed and declared effective, then additional interest at a rate equal to 0.25% per annum ("Additional Interest") will accrue in respect of the Notes immediately following the occurrence of one or more of the above listed events.
The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is subject to and is qualified in its entirety by reference to all of the provisions of the Indenture, including definitions of certain terms and provisions made a part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended; by reference to the terms and the provisions of the 2020 Notes and 2040 Notes; and by reference to the Registration Rights Agreement, which are attached hereto as Exhibits 4.1, 10.1, 10.2 and 4.2, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information described above under "Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS INDENTURE, dated as of December 20, 2010 between SAIC, INC. (the ""), SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION (the "") and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A. (the ""),
Issuer
Guarantor
Trustee
WHEREAS, for its lawful corporate purposes, the Issuer has duly authorized the execution and delivery of the Indenture to provide for the issuance of unsecured debt securities in one or more series (the "") up to such principal amount or amounts as may from time to time be authorized in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and to provide, among other things, for the authentication, delivery and administration thereof;
Securities
WHEREAS, for its lawful corporate purposes, the Guarantor has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture as guarantor of the Securities, and has done all things necessary to make the Guarantee, when the Securities are executed by the Issuer and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and duly issued by the Issuer, the valid obligation of the Guarantor as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make the Indenture a valid indenture and agreement according to its terms have been done;
WHEREAS, the Indenture is subject to, and will be governed by, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (the "") that are required to be a part of and govern indentures qualified under the Trust Indenture Act; and
Trust Indenture Act
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the purchases of the Securities by the holders thereof, the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective holders from time to time of the Securities as follows:
Section 1.01The following terms (except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise clearly requires) for all purposes of the Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto shall have the respective meanings specified in this Section. All other terms used in the Indenture that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, or the definitions of which are referred to in the Trust Indenture Act, including terms defined therein by reference to the Securities Act (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise clearly requires), shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Trust Indenture Act and in the Securities Act as in force at the date of the Indenture. All accounting terms used herein and not expressly defined shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and the term "generally accepted accounting principles" means such accounting principles as are generally accepted at the
. Certain Terms Defined; Rules of Construction.
time of any computation. The words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to the Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision. The terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular. Except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise clearly requires, references to agreements or instruments, or to statutes or regulations, are to such agreements or instruments, or statutes or regulations, as amended from time to time (or to successor statutes and regulations).
"" means a member of, or a participant in, the Depositary.
Agent Member
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.09.
Aggregate Debt
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.09.
Attributable Liens
"" means an authenticating agent with respect to any of the series of Securities appointed with respect to all or any series of the Securities by the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.12.
Authenticating Agent
"" means Title 11 of the United States Code or any similar Federal or State law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
"" means either the Board of Directors of the Issuer or any committee of such Board duly authorized to act hereunder.
Board of Directors
"" means, with respect to any Security, a day that in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York is not a day on which banking institutions are authorized by law or regulation to close.
Business Day
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.09.
Capital Lease
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or if at any time after the execution and delivery of the Indenture such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties on such date.
Commission
"" means a corporation or a limited liability company.
company
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.09.
Consolidated Net Worth
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.09.
Consolidated Subsidiary
"" means the designated office of the Trustee at which at any time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 700 South Flower Street, Suite 500, Los Angeles, California 90017, Attention:
Corporate Trust Office
 
Corporate Trust Administration, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Issuer, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as such successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Issuer).
"" means, with respect to Securities of any series, for which the Issuer shall determine that such Securities will be issued as a Global Security, the Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, another clearing agency, or any successor registered as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act, or other applicable statute or regulation, which, in each case, shall be designated by the Issuer pursuant to either Section 2.01 or 2.13.
Depositary
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 4.01.
Event of Default
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.09.
GAAP
"" means, with respect to any series of Securities, a Security executed by the Issuer and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to a safekeeping agreement with the Depositary, all in accordance with the Indenture, which shall be registered in global form without interest coupons in the name of the Depositary or its nominee.
Global Security
"" means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America that, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depositary receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act) as custodian with respect to any such Governmental Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such Governmental Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depositary receipt; , , that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the Governmental Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the Governmental Obligation evidenced by such depositary receipt.
Governmental Obligations
provided
however
"" means the guarantee of the Securities and the obligations of the Issuer under the Indenture by the Guarantor pursuant to the Indenture.
Guarantee
 
"" means, unless otherwise explicitly provided herein, the Person named as the "Guarantor" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "" shall mean such successor Person.
Guarantor
Guarantor
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.09.
Hedging Obligations
"" means the Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Register.
Holder
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.09.
Indebtedness
"" means this instrument as originally executed and delivered or, if amended or supplemented as herein provided, as so amended or supplemented or both, and shall include the forms and terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated hereunder.
Indenture
, when used with respect to any installment of interest on a Security of a particular series, means the date specified in such Security or in a Resolution of the Board of Directors or in an indenture supplemental hereto with respect to such series as the fixed date on which an installment of interest with respect to Securities of that series is due and payable.
"Interest Payment Date"
"" means the date on which the Securities are originally issued.
Issue Date
"" means, unless otherwise explicitly provided herein, the Person named as the "Issuer" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "" shall mean such successor Person.
Issuer
Issuer
has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.04.
"Issuer Order"
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.09.
Lien
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 4.01(c).
Notice of Default
"" means each of the Issuer and the Guarantor, in each case excluding such entity's Subsidiaries (other than the Issuer and the Guarantor).
Obligor
"" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Issuer by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer, or general counsel of the Issuer.
Officer's Certificate
"" means an opinion in writing signed by legal counsel who may be an employee of or counsel to the Issuer.
Opinion of Counsel
 
"" means any Security that provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 4.01.
Original Issue Discount Security
"", when used with reference to Securities, shall, subject to the provisions of Section 6.04, mean, as of any particular time, all Securities authenticated and delivered by the Trustee under the Indenture, except:
Outstanding
(a) Securities cancelled by the Trustee or accepted by the Trustee for cancellation;
(b) Securities, or portions thereof, for the payment or redemption of which moneys in the necessary amount to pay all amounts then due shall have been deposited in trust with the Trustee or with any paying agent (other than the Issuer) or shall have been set aside, segregated and held in trust by the Issuer for the Holders of such Securities (if the Issuer shall act as its own paying agent), that if such Securities, or portions thereof, are to be redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall have been given as herein provided, or provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been made for giving such notice; and
provided
(c) Securities in substitution for which other Securities shall have been authenticated and delivered, or which shall have been paid, pursuant to the terms of Section 2.09 unless and until the Trustee and the Issuer receive proof satisfactory to them that the substituted Security is held by a purchaser.
bona fide
In determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of any or all series have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purposes shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon a declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 4.01.
means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56, as amended, and signed into law October 26, 2001.
"Patriot Act"
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.09.
Permitted Liens
"" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or any other entity, including any government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
 
"" whenever used with reference to the Securities or any Security or any portion thereof, shall be deemed to include "and premium, if any".
principal
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.09.
Property
"" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 2.08.
Register
"" means a Person engaged to maintain the Register.
Registrar
means a copy of the resolution certified by the secretary or an assistant secretary of the Issuer to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification.
"Resolution of the Board of Directors"
"" when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant secretary, assistant treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of the Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the Persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of the Indenture.
Responsible Officer
"" means the Securities Act of 1933 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" or "" has the meaning stated in the first recital of the Indenture, or, as the case may be, Securities that have been authenticated and delivered under the Indenture.
Security
Securities
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.09.
Stockholders' Equity
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.09.
Subsidiary
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 8.01.
Surviving Entity
"" means the Person identified as "Trustee" in the first paragraph hereof and any successor trustee under the Indenture pursuant to Article 5.
Trustee
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed; provided, however, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
Trust Indenture Act
 
"" when used with respect to the Issuer, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title of "vice president".
vice president
"" means the yield to maturity on a series of securities, calculated at the time of issuance of such series, or, if applicable, at the most recent redetermination of interest on such series, and calculated in accordance with accepted financial practice.
Yield to Maturity
Section 2.01The Securities of each series shall be substantially in such form (not inconsistent with the Indenture) as shall be established by or pursuant to a Resolution of the Board of Directors and set forth in an Officer's Certificate, or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by the Indenture and may have imprinted or otherwise reproduced thereon such legends, notations or endorsements as may be required to comply with any law or with any rules or regulations pursuant thereto, or with any rules of any securities exchange or to conform to general usage, all as may be determined by the officer executing such Securities, as evidenced by such officer's execution of the Securities.
. Forms Generally.
The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officer executing such Securities, as evidenced by such officer's execution of such Securities.
Section 2.02The Trustee's certificate of authentication on all Securities shall be in substantially the following form:
. Form of Trustee's Certification of Authentication.
This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
Section 2.03Subject to compliance with the representations, warranties and covenants set forth herein, in the Officer's Certificate, in any indenture supplemental hereto and in any amendment hereto or thereto, the aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture is unlimited.
. Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Resolution of the Board of Directors and set forth in an Officer's Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series:
(a) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other Securities);
(b) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 2.08, 2.09, 2.11 or 11.03);
(c) the date or dates on which the principal of the Securities of the series is payable;
(d) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method by which such rate shall be determined, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable and the record dates for the determination of Holders to whom interest is payable on such Interest Payment Dates;
(e) the right, if any, to extend the interest payment periods and the duration of such extension;
(f) the place or places where the principal of and any interest on Securities of the series shall be payable (if other than as provided in Section 3.02);
(g) the price or prices at which, the period or periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Issuer;
(h) the obligation, if any, of the Issuer to redeem, purchase or repay Securities of the series at the option of a Holder thereof and the price or prices at which and the period or periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, purchased or repaid, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
 
(i) if other than denominations of $2,000 and any multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof, the denominations in which Securities of the series shall be issuable;
(j) the percentage of the principal amount at which the Securities will be issued, and, if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 4.01 or provable in bankruptcy pursuant to Section 4.02;
(k) whether the Securities are issuable under Rule 144A or Regulation S and, in such case, any provisions unique to such form of issuance including any transfer restrictions or exchange and registration rights;
(l) any and all other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Indenture) including any terms which may be required by or advisable under U.S. law or regulations or advisable in connection with the marketing of Securities in that series;
(m) whether the Securities are issuable as a Global Security and, in such case, the identity for the Depositary for such series;
(n) any deletion from, modification of or addition to the Events of Default or covenants provided for with respect to the Securities of the series;
(o) any provisions granting special rights to Holders when a specified event occurs;
(p) whether and under what circumstances the Issuer will pay additional amounts on the Securities of the series held by a Person who is not a U.S. Person in respect of any tax, assessment or governmental charge withheld or deducted and, if so, whether the Issuer will have the option to redeem the Securities of the series rather than pay such additional amounts;
(q) any special tax implications of the Securities, including provisions for Original Issue Discount Securities;
(r) any trustees, authenticating or paying agents, transfer agents or registrars or any other agents with respect to the Securities of such series;
(s) any guarantor or co-issuer of the Securities of the series;
(t) any special interest premium or other premium;
 
(u) whether the Securities are convertible or exchangeable into common stock or other equity securities of the Issuer or a combination thereof and the terms and conditions upon which such conversion or exchange shall be effected; and
(v) the currency in which payments shall be made, if other than U.S. dollars.
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to such Resolution of the Board of Directors and set forth in an Officer's Certificate, or in any indenture supplemental hereto. All Securities of any one series need not be issued at the same time, and unless otherwise provided, a series may be reopened for issuance of additional Securities of such series. Additional Securities of such series will be consolidated with, and form a single series with, Securities then Outstanding of such series.
Any additional Securities shall be established in or pursuant to a Resolution of the Board of Directors and set forth in an Officer's Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series the following information:
(i) the aggregate principal amount of such additional Securities to be authenticated and delivered pursuant to the Indenture;
(ii) the issue price, the issue date and the CUSIP number, if any, of such additional Securities; and
(iii) whether such additional Securities shall be transfer restricted Securities or have any registration or exchange rights.
Section 2.04At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of the Indenture, the Issuer may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Issuer to the Trustee for authentication, together with a written order of the Issuer, signed in the name of the Issuer by any one of the following officers: chairman of the Board of Directors, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer, president, any vice president, secretary, controller or general counsel of the Issuer (an "Issuer Order"). The Trustee, in accordance with such written order, shall authenticate and deliver such Securities.
. Authentication and Delivery of Securities.
In authenticating such Securities and accepting the additional responsibilities under the Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive and (subject to Section 5.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon:
(a) a certified copy of any Resolution or Resolutions of the Board of Directors authorizing the action taken pursuant to the resolution or resolutions delivered under clause 2.04(b) below;
 
(b) a copy of any Resolution or Resolutions of the Board of Directors relating to such series, in each case certified by the secretary or an assistant secretary of the Issuer;
(c) an executed supplemental indenture, if any;
(d) in lieu of a supplemental indenture, an Officer's Certificate setting forth the form and terms of the Securities as required pursuant to Section 2.01 and 2.03, respectively, and prepared in accordance with Section 10.05;
(e) an Opinion of Counsel, prepared in accordance with Section 10.05, to the effect that
(i) the form or forms and terms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to a Resolution of the Board of Directors and set forth in an Officer's Certificate, or by a supplemental indenture as permitted by Section 2.01 and 2.03 in conformity with the provisions of the Indenture;
(ii) such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Issuer in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Issuer entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, and enforceable against the Issuer in accordance with their terms, except to the extent that enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to creditor's rights generally, and general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law); and
(iii) the conditions precedent in the Indenture for the issuance and authentication of the Securities have been complied with.
The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any Securities under this section if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that such action may not lawfully be taken by the Issuer or if the Trustee in good faith by its board of directors or board of trustees, executive committee, or a trust committee of directors or trustees or Responsible Officers shall determine that such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability.
Section 2.05The Securities shall be signed in the name of the Issuer by any one of its chairman of the Board of Directors, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer, president, any vice president or general counsel. Such signature may be the manual or facsimile signature of the present or any future such officer. Typographical and other minor errors or defects in any such signature shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any Security that has been duly authenticated and delivered by the Trustee.
. Execution of Securities.
 
In case any officer of the Issuer who shall have signed any of the Securities shall cease to be such officer before the Security so signed shall be authenticated and delivered by the Trustee or disposed of by the Issuer, such Security nevertheless may be authenticated and delivered or disposed of as though the person who signed such Security had not ceased to be such officer of the Issuer; and any Security may be signed on behalf of the Issuer by such person as, at the actual date of the execution of such Security, shall be the proper officer of the Issuer, although at the date of the execution and delivery of the Indenture any such person was not such an officer.
Section 2.06Only such Securities as shall bear thereon a certificate of authentication substantially in the form recited herein, executed by the Trustee by the manual signature of one of its authorized officers, shall be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. Such certificate by the Trustee upon any Security executed by the Issuer shall be conclusive evidence that the Security so authenticated has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and that the Holder is entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
. Certificate of Authentication.
Section 2.07The Securities shall be issuable as registered securities without coupons and in denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 2.03. In the absence of any such specification with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series shall be issuable in denominations of $2,000 and any multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The Securities shall be numbered, lettered, or otherwise distinguished in such manner or in accordance with such plan as the officer of the Issuer executing the same may determine with the approval of the Trustee as evidenced by the execution and authentication thereof.
. Denomination and Date of Securities; Payments of Interest.
The principal of and the interest on the Securities of any series, shall be payable in the coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time is legal tender for public and private debt, at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose.
Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication, shall bear interest, if any, from the date and shall be payable on the dates, in each case, established as contemplated by Section 2.03.
The Person in whose name any Security of any series is registered at the close of business on any record date applicable to a particular series with respect to any interest payment date for such series shall be entitled to receive the interest, if any, payable on such interest payment date notwithstanding any transfer or exchange of such Security subsequent to the record date and prior to such interest payment date, except if and to the extent the Issuer shall default in the payment of the interest due on such interest payment date for such series, in which case such defaulted interest shall be paid to the Persons in
 
whose names Outstanding Securities for such series are registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date (which shall be not less than five Business Days prior to the date of payment of such defaulted interest) established by notice given by mail by or on behalf of the Issuer to the Holders not less than 15 days preceding such subsequent record date. The term "" as used with respect to any interest payment date (except a date for payment of defaulted interest) shall mean the date specified as such in the terms of the Securities of any particular series, or, if no such date is so specified, if such interest payment date is the first day of a calendar month, the fifteenth day of the next preceding calendar month or, if such interest payment date is the fifteenth day of a calendar month, the first day of such calendar month, whether or not such record date is a Business Day.
record date
Section 2.08The Issuer may appoint one or more Registrars. The Issuer initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar. The Issuer will keep or cause to be kept at each office or agency to be maintained for the purpose as provided in Section 3.02 a register or registers (the "") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, it will register, and will register the transfer of, Securities as in this Article provided. The Register shall be in written form in the English language or in any other form capable of being converted into such form within a reasonable time. At all reasonable times the Register shall be open for inspection by the Trustee.
. Registration, Transfer and Exchange.
Register
Upon due presentation for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at any such office or agency to be maintained for the purpose as provided in Section 3.02, the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees a new Security or Securities of the same series in authorized denominations for a like aggregate principal amount.
Any Security or Securities of any series may be exchanged for a Security or Securities of the same series in other authorized denominations, in an equal aggregate principal amount. Securities of any series to be exchanged shall be surrendered at any office or agency to be maintained by the Issuer for the purpose as provided in Section 3.02, and the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor the Security or Securities of the same series which the Holder making the exchange shall be entitled to receive, bearing numbers not contemporaneously Outstanding.
All Securities presented for registration of transfer, exchange, redemption or payment shall (if so required by the Issuer or the Trustee) be duly endorsed by, or be accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Issuer and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing, together with signature guarantees for such Holder or attorney.
The Issuer or the Trustee may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any exchange or registration of transfer of Securities. No service charge shall be made for any such transaction.
 
Neither the Issuer nor the Trustee shall be required to exchange or register a transfer of (a) any Securities of any series for a period of 15 days preceding the first mailing of notice of redemption of Securities of such series to be redeemed, or (b) any Securities selected, called or being called for redemption except, in the case of any Security where public notice has been given that such Security is to be redeemed in part, the portion thereof not so to be redeemed.
In addition to the transfer requirements provided in this Section 2.08, any Security or Securities will be subject to such further transfer restrictions as may be contained in an Officer's Certificate or indenture supplemental hereto applicable to such series of Securities.
All Securities issued upon any transfer or exchange of Securities shall be valid obligations of the Issuer, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under the Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such transfer or exchange.
The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security (including any transfers between or among direct or indirect participants of the Depositary or beneficial owners of interests in any Global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
Section 2.09In case any temporary or definitive Security shall become mutilated, defaced or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Issuer in its discretion may execute, and upon the receipt of an Issuer Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, a new Security of the same series, bearing a number not contemporaneously Outstanding, in exchange and substitution for the mutilated or defaced Security, or in lieu of and substitution for the Security so destroyed, lost or stolen. In every case the applicant for a substitute Security shall furnish to the Issuer and to the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to indemnify and defend and to save each of them harmless and, in every case of destruction, loss or theft, evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security and of the ownership thereof.
. Mutilated, Defaced, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities.
Upon the issuance of any substitute Security, the Issuer or the Trustee may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith. In case any Security which has matured or is about to
 
mature or has been called for redemption in full shall become mutilated or defaced or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Issuer may instead of issuing a substitute Security, pay or authorize the payment of the same (without surrender thereof except in the case of a mutilated or defaced Security), if the applicant for such payment shall furnish to the Issuer and to the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee such security or indemnity as any of them may require to save each of them harmless, and, in every case of destruction, loss or theft, the applicant shall also furnish to the Issuer and the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security and of the ownership thereof. In case the mutilated, deleted, destroyed, or lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Issuer in its discretion may pay the Security instead of issuing a substitute Security.
Every substitute Security of any series issued pursuant to the provisions of this section by virtue of the fact that any such Security is destroyed, lost or stolen shall constitute an additional contractual obligation of the Issuer, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone and shall be entitled to all the benefits of (but shall be subject to all the limitations of rights set forth in) the Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of such series duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. All Securities shall be held and owned upon the express condition that, to the extent permitted by law, the foregoing provisions are exclusive with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, defaced or destroyed, lost or stolen Securities and shall preclude any and all other rights or remedies notwithstanding any law or statute existing or hereafter enacted to the contrary with respect to the replacement or payment of negotiable instruments or other securities without their surrender.
Section 2.10All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange, or for credit against any payment in respect of a sinking or analogous fund, if surrendered to the Issuer or any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee, shall be delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or, if surrendered to the Trustee, shall be cancelled by it; and no Securities shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly permitted by any of the provisions of the Indenture. On written request of the Issuer at the time of such surrender, the Trustee shall deliver to the Issuer the Securities cancelled by the Trustee. In the absence of such request, the Trustee shall destroy cancelled Securities held by it and deliver a certificate of destruction to the Issuer. If the Issuer shall acquire any of the Securities, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Securities unless and until the same are delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
. Cancellation of Securities; Destruction Thereof.
Section 2.11Pending the preparation of definitive Securities for any series, the Issuer may execute and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of an Issuer Order, authenticate and deliver temporary Securities for such series (printed, lithographed, typewritten or otherwise reproduced, in each case in form satisfactory to the Trustee). Temporary Securities of any series shall be issuable as registered Securities
. Temporary Securities.
 
without coupons, of any authorized denomination, and substantially in the form of the definitive Securities of such series but with such omissions, insertions and variations as may be appropriate for temporary Securities, all as may be determined by the Issuer with the concurrence of the Trustee. Temporary Securities may contain such reference to any provisions of the Indenture as may be appropriate. Every temporary Security shall be executed by the Issuer and be authenticated by the Trustee upon the same conditions and in substantially the same manner, and with like effect, as the definitive Securities. Without unreasonable delay the Issuer shall execute and shall furnish definitive Securities of such series and thereupon temporary Securities of such series may be surrendered in exchange therefor without charge at each office or agency to be maintained by the Issuer for that purpose pursuant to Section 3.02, and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of an Issuer Order, authenticate and deliver in exchange for such temporary Securities of such series a like aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of any series shall be entitled to the same benefits under the Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
Section 2.12. . So long as any of the Securities of any series remain Outstanding there may be an Authenticating Agent for any or all such series of Securities which the Trustee shall have the right to appoint. Said Authenticating Agent shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon exchange, transfer or partial redemption thereof, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and shall be valid and binding for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. All references in the Indenture to the authentication of Securities by the Trustee shall be deemed to include authentication by an Authenticating Agent for such series. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Issuer and shall be a corporation that has a combined capital and surplus, as most recently reported or determined by it, sufficient under the laws of any jurisdiction under which it is organized or in which it is doing business to conduct a trust business, and that is otherwise authorized under such laws to conduct such business and is subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authorities. If at any time any Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with these provisions, it shall resign immediately. Any Authenticating Agent may at any time resign by giving written notice of resignation to the Trustee and to the Issuer. The Trustee may at any time (and upon written request by the Issuer shall) terminate the agency of any Authenticating Agent by giving written notice of termination to such Authenticating Agent and to the Issuer. Upon resignation, termination or cessation of eligibility of any Authenticating Agent, the Trustee may appoint an eligible successor Authenticating Agent acceptable to the Issuer. Any successor Authenticating Agent, upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder, shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent pursuant hereto.
Authenticating Agent
 
Section 2.13. If the Issuer shall establish pursuant to Section 2.01 that the Securities of a particular series are to be issued as a Global Security, then the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with Section 2.04, authenticate and deliver, a Global Security that shall (i) represent, and be issued in a denomination or aggregate denominations equal to the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities to be represented by a Global Security, (ii) be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, (iii) be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction and (iv) bear a legend substantially to the following effect: "Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.13 of the Indenture, this Security may be transferred, in whole but not in part, only to another nominee of the Depositary or to a successor Depositary or to a nominee of such successor Depositary."
Global Securities.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.08, the Global Security of a series may be transferred, in whole but not in part and in the manner provided in Section 2.08, only to another nominee of the Depositary for such series, or to a successor Depositary for such series selected or approved by the Issuer or to a nominee of such successor Depositary.
Ownership of beneficial interests in a registered Global Security will be limited to Agent Members that have accounts with the Depositary or Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members. Upon the issuance of a registered Global Security, the Depositary will credit, on its book-entry registration and transfer system, the Agent Members' accounts with the respective principal or face amounts of the securities beneficially owned by the participants. Any dealers, underwriters or agents participating in the distribution of the Securities will designate the accounts to be credited. Ownership of beneficial interests in a Global Security will be shown on, and the transfer of ownership interests will be effected only through, records maintained by the Depositary, with respect to interests of Agent Members, and on the records of Agent Members, with respect to interests of Persons holding through Agent Members.
So long as the Depositary, or its nominee, is the registered owner of a registered Global Security, that Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, will be considered the sole owner or Holder of the Securities represented by the Global Security for all purposes under the Indenture. Except as described in this Section 2.13, Agent Members will not be entitled to have the Securities represented by the Global Security registered in their names, will not receive or be entitled to receive physical delivery of the Securities in definitive form and will not be considered the owners or Holders of the Securities under the Indenture. Accordingly, each Agent Member owning a beneficial interest in a registered Global Security must rely on the procedures of the Depositary for that registered Global Security and, if that Person is not an Agent Member, on the procedures of the Agent Member through which the Person owns its interest, to exercise any rights of a Holder under the Indenture. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Depositary or its nominee may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person (including any Agent Member and any Person that holds a beneficial interest in a Global Security through an Agent Member) to take any action which a Holder is entitled to take under the Indenture or the Securities, and nothing herein will impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of any Security.
 
Principal, premium, if any, and interest payments on Securities represented by a Global Security registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee will be made to the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, as the registered owner of the registered Global Security. None of the Issuer, the Trustee or any other agent of the Issuer, or any agent of the Trustee will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests in the registered Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to those beneficial ownership interests.
If, at any time, either (i) the Depositary for a series of the Securities notifies the Issuer that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such series or if at any time the Depositary for such series shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the Exchange Act, or other applicable statute or regulation, and a successor Depositary for such series is not appointed by the Issuer within 90 days after the Issuer receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition, as the case may be, or (ii) an Event of Default with respect to a series of Securities has occurred and is continuing and the Depositary for such series requests the issuance in definitive registered form of any such Securities represented by a Global Security, then this Section 2.13 shall no longer be applicable to the Securities of such series and the Issuer will execute, and subject to Section 2.08, the Trustee will authenticate and deliver the Securities of such series in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security of such series in exchange for such Global Security. In addition, the Issuer may at any time determine that the Securities of any series shall no longer be represented by a Global Security and that the provisions of this Section 2.13 shall no longer apply to the Securities of such series. In such event the Issuer will execute and subject to Section 2.08, the Trustee, upon receipt of an Officer's Certificate evidencing such determination by the Issuer, will authenticate and deliver the Securities of such series in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security of such series in exchange for such Global Security. Upon the exchange of the Global Security for such Securities in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized denominations, the Global Security shall be cancelled by the Trustee. Such Securities in definitive registered form issued in exchange for the Global Security pursuant to this Section 2.13 shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee in writing. The Issuer and the Trustee shall be entitled to conclusively rely on such instructions from the Depositary. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Depositary for delivery to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered. Neither the Trustee nor any Agent Members shall have any responsibility for any actions taken or not taken by the Depositary.
 
Section 2.14. . The Issuer in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Issuer will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
CUSIP Numbers
Section 3.01(a) The Issuer covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid the principal of, and interest on, each of the Securities of such series at the place or places, at the respective times and in the manner provided in such Securities. The Issuer shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal on each series of Securities at the rate specified in the terms of such series of Securities to the extent lawful; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful. Unless otherwise provided in the Securities of any series, not later than 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the due date of any principal of or interest on any Securities, the Issuer will deposit with the Trustee (or paying agent) money in immediately available funds sufficient to pay such amounts, provided that if the Issuer or any affiliate of the Issuer is acting as paying agent, it will, on or before each due date, segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders a sum of money sufficient to pay such amounts until paid to such Holders or otherwise disposed of as provided in the Indenture. In each case the Issuer will promptly notify the Trustee of its compliance with this paragraph.
. Payment of Principal and Interest.
(b) An installment of principal or interest will be considered paid on the date due if the Trustee (or paying agent, other than the Issuer or any affiliate of the Issuer) holds on that date money designated for and sufficient to pay the installment. If the Issuer or any affiliate of the Issuer acts as paying agent, an installment of principal or interest will be considered paid on the due date only if paid to the Holders.
(c) Payments in respect of the Securities represented by the Global Security are to be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holder of the Global Security. With respect to certificated Securities, the Issuer will make all payments by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holders thereof or, if no such account is specified, by mailing a check to each Holder's registered address.
 
Section 3.02So long as any of the Securities remain Outstanding, the Issuer or an affiliate will maintain the following for each series: an office or agency (a) where the Securities may be presented for payment, (b) where the Securities may be presented for registration of transfer and for exchange as in the Indenture provided and (c) where notices and demands to or upon the Issuer in respect of the Securities or of the Indenture may be given or served. The Issuer will give to the Trustee written notice of the location of any such office or agency and of any change of location thereof. Unless otherwise specified in accordance with Section 2.03, the Issuer hereby initially designates 700 South Flower Street, Suite 500, Los Angeles, CA 90017, as the office to be maintained by it for each such purpose. In case the Issuer shall fail to so designate or maintain any such office or agency or shall fail to give such notice of the location or of any change in the location thereof, presentations and demands may be made and notices may be served at the applicable Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee and the Issuer hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, notices and demands.
. Offices for Payments, etc.
Section 3.03Whenever the Issuer shall appoint a paying agent other than the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series, it will cause such paying agent to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section,
. Paying Agents.
(a) that it will hold all sums received by it as such agent for the payment of the principal of or interest on the Securities of such series (whether such sums have been paid to it by the Issuer or by any other obligor on the Securities of such series) in trust for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series or of the Trustee,
(b) that it will give the Trustee notice of any failure by the Issuer (or by any other obligor on the Securities of such series) to make any payment of the principal of or interest on the Securities of such series when the same shall be due and payable,
(c) pay any such sums so held in trust by it to the Trustee upon the Trustee's written request at any time during the continuance of the failure referred to in clause 3.03(b) above, and
(d) that it will perform all other duties of paying agent as set forth in the Indenture.
The Issuer shall, on or prior to each due date of the principal of or interest on the Securities of such series, deposit with the paying agent a sum sufficient to pay such principal or interest so becoming due, and (unless such paying agent is the Trustee) the Issuer shall promptly notify the Trustee of any failure to take such action.
If an Issuer shall act as its own paying agent with respect to the Securities of any series, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of or interest on the Securities of such series, set aside, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series a sum sufficient to pay such principal or interest so becoming due. The Issuer will promptly notify the Trustee of any failure to take such action.
 
Anything in this section to the contrary notwithstanding, the Issuer may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining a satisfaction and discharge with respect to one or more or all series of Securities hereunder, or for any other reason, pay or cause to be paid to the Trustee all sums held in trust for any such series by the Issuer or any paying agent hereunder, as required by this Section, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the trusts herein contained.
Anything in this section to the contrary notwithstanding, the agreement to hold sums in trust as provided in this section is subject to the provisions of Section 9.05 and 9.06.
Section 3.04The Issuer will furnish to the Trustee on or before 120 days after the end of each fiscal year (beginning with the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011) a brief certificate (which need not comply with Section 10.05) from the principal executive, financial or accounting officer or the Treasurer of the Issuer as to his or her knowledge of the Issuer's compliance with all conditions and covenants under the Indenture (such compliance to be determined without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided under the Indenture), or if there has been a default, specifying the default and its nature and status.
. Certificate of the Issuer.
Section 3.05The Issuer will furnish to the Trustee any document or report the Issuer is required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act within 15 days after such document or report is filed with the Commission; provided that in each case the delivery of materials to the Trustee by electronic means or filing documents pursuant to the Commission's "EDGAR" system (or any successor electronic filing system) shall be deemed to constitute "filing" with the Trustee for purposes of this Section 3.05. Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Issuer's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officer's Certificates or other certificates of the Issuer delivered hereunder (such as described in Section 3.04)).
. Reports by the Issuer.
Section 3.06(a) With respect to each series of Securities, each Obligor covenants not to create or incur any Lien on any of its Properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or upon any income or profits therefrom, in order to secure any of its Indebtedness, without effectively providing that such series of Securities shall be equally and ratably secured until such time as such Indebtedness is no longer secured by such Lien, except:
. Limitation on Liens.
(i) Liens existing as of the closing date of the offering of the Securities;
 
(ii) Liens granted after the closing date of the offering of such series of Securities created in favor of the Holders of such series of Securities;
(iii) Liens securing such Obligor's Indebtedness which are incurred to extend, renew or refinance Indebtedness which is secured by Liens permitted to be incurred under the Indenture so long as such Liens are limited to all or part of substantially the same Property which secured the Liens extended, renewed or replaced and the amount of Indebtedness secured is not increased (other than by the amount equal to any costs and expenses (including any premiums, fees or penalties) incurred in connection with any extension, renewal or refinancing); and
(iv) Permitted Liens.
(b) Notwithstanding Section 3.06(a), each Obligor may, without securing any series of Securities, create or incur Liens which would otherwise be subject to the restrictions set forth in the Section 3.06(a), if after giving effect thereto, its Aggregate Debt does not exceed 15% of its Consolidated Net Worth calculated as of the date of the creation or incurrence of the Lien.
Section 3.07(a) Each Obligor covenants not to enter into any sale and lease-back transaction for the sale and leasing back of any Property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, unless:
. Limitation on Sale and Lease-Back Transactions.
(i) such transaction was entered into prior to the closing date of the offering of such series of Securities;
(ii) such transaction was for the sale and leasing back to such Obligor of any Property by one of the Issuer's Subsidiaries;
(iii) such transaction was for the sale and leasing back to such Obligor of any Property by any domestic or foreign government agency in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue, private activity bonds or similar financing;
(iv) such transaction involves a lease for less than three years;
(v) such Obligor would be entitled to incur Indebtedness secured by a mortgage on the Property to be leased in an amount equal to the Attributable Liens with respect to such sale and lease-back transaction without equally and ratably securing the Securities pursuant to Section 3.06(a) above; or
(vi) such Obligor applies an amount equal to the fair value of the Property sold to the purchase of Property or to the retirement of the Securities or its other long-term Indebtedness within 365 days of the effective date of any such sale and lease-back transaction. In lieu of applying such amount to such retirement, such Obligor may deliver debt securities to the trustee therefor for cancellation, such debt securities to be credited at the cost thereof to such Obligor.
 
(b) Notwithstanding Section 3.07(a), each Obligor may enter into any sale and lease-back transaction which would otherwise be subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 3.07(a) if, after giving effect thereto and at the time of determination, its Aggregate Debt does not exceed 15% of its Consolidated Net Worth calculated as of the closing date of the sale and lease-back transaction.
Section 3.08. . Except as permitted under Article 8, each Obligor covenants to do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights and franchises; provided, however, that such Obligor shall not be required to preserve any right or franchise if it determines that its preservation is no longer desirable in the conduct of business.
Existence
Section 3.09. . As used in Sections 3.06, 3.07 and 3.08, the following terms have the meanings set forth below.
Certain Definitions
"" means the sum of the following, calculated as of the date of determination in accordance with GAAP:
Aggregate Debt
(1) the aggregate amount of such Person's Indebtedness incurred after the closing date of the offering of the Securities and secured by Liens not permitted by the first sentence under Section 3.06(a), and
(2) the aggregate amount of such Person's Attributable Liens in respect of sale and lease-back transactions entered into after the closing date of the offering of the Securities pursuant to Section 3.07(b).
"" means, in connection with a sale and lease-back transaction, the lesser of:
Attributable Liens
(1) the fair market value of the assets subject to such transaction (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors); and
(2) the present value (discounted at a rate per annum equal to the average interest borne by all Outstanding Securities of each series issued under the Indenture determined on a weighted average basis and compounded semi-annually) of the obligations of the lessee for rental payments during the term of the related lease.
"" means any Indebtedness represented by a lease obligation of a Person incurred with respect to real property or equipment acquired or leased by such Person and used in its business that is required to be recorded as a capital lease in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease
 
"" means, as of any date of determination and with respect to any Person, the Stockholders' Equity of such Person and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on that date.
Consolidated Net Worth
"" means, as of any date of determination and with respect to any Person, any Subsidiary of that Person whose financial data is, in accordance with GAAP, reflected in that Person's consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Subsidiary
"" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are in effect as of the date of determination.
GAAP
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, the obligations of such Person under:
Hedging Obligations
(1) interest rate swap agreements (whether from fixed to floating or from floating to fixed), interest rate cap agreements and interest rate collar agreements;
(2) other agreements or arrangements designed to manage interest rates or interest rate risk;
(3) other agreements or arrangements designed to protect such Person against fluctuations in currency exchange rates or commodity prices; and
(4) other agreements or arrangements designed to protect such Person against fluctuations in equity prices.
"" of any specified Person means, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness in respect of borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person in respect of letters of credit or other similar instruments (including reimbursement agreements with respect thereto), (d) the Indebtedness of any other Persons to the extent guaranteed by such Person and (e) all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred and unpaid purchase price of any Property (including pursuant to Capital Leases), but excluding trade accounts payable or accrued liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business; but only, for each of clause (a) through (e), if and to the extent any of the foregoing indebtedness would appear as a liability upon an unconsolidated balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with GAAP (but does not include contingent liabilities which appear only in a footnote to a balance sheet). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the term "Indebtedness" be deemed to include letters of credit that secure performance, bonds that secure performance, surety bonds or similar instruments that are issued in the ordinary course of business.
Indebtedness
 
"" means any lien, security interest, charge or encumbrance of any kind (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, and any agreement to give any security interest).
Lien
"" means:
Permitted Liens
(1) Liens on any of the assets of an Obligor, created solely to secure obligations incurred to finance the refurbishment, improvement or construction of such asset, which obligations are incurred no later than 24 months after completion of such refurbishment, improvement or construction, and all renewals, extensions, refinancings, replacements or refundings of such obligations;
(2) (a) Liens given to secure the payment of the purchase price incurred in connection with the acquisition (including acquisition through merger or consolidation) of Property (including shares of stock), including Capital Lease transactions in connection with any such acquisition, and (b) Liens existing on Property at the time of acquisition thereof or at the time of acquisition by an Obligor of any Person then owning such Property whether or not such existing Liens were given to secure the payment of the purchase price of the Property to which they attach; that, with respect to clause (a), the Liens shall be given within 24 months after such acquisition and shall attach solely to the Property acquired or purchased and any improvements then or thereafter placed thereon;
provided
(3) Liens securing reimbursement obligations with respect to letters of credit that encumber documents and other Property relating to such letters of credit and the products and proceeds thereof;
(4) Liens encumbering customary initial deposits and margin deposits and other Liens in the ordinary course of business, in each case securing Hedging Obligations and forward contracts, options, futures contracts, futures options, equity hedges or similar agreements or arrangements designed to protect from fluctuations in interest rates, currencies, equities or the price of commodities;
(5) Liens in favor of an Obligor;
(6) Liens consisting of pledges or deposits of Property to secure performance in connection with operating leases made in the ordinary course of business to which an Obligor is a party as lessee, provided the aggregate value of all such pledges and deposits in connection with any such lease does not at any time exceed 16
 2
/
3
% of the annual fixed rentals payable under such lease;
(7) Liens securing the performance of statutory obligations or bids, surety, appeal or customs bonds, standby letters of credit, performance or return-of-money bonds or other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of the business of an Obligor;
 
(8) Liens securing Indebtedness owing by an Obligor to one or more of its Subsidiaries (provided that, upon either (a) the transfer or other disposition of any Indebtedness secured by such Lien to a Person other than another Subsidiary or (b) the issuance, sale, lease, transfer or other disposition of more than a majority of the capital stock of or any other ownership interest in such Subsidiary to which such secured Indebtedness is owed to a Person other than an Obligor or another Subsidiary, such Lien will no longer qualify as a "Permitted Lien" pursuant to this clause (8));
(9) Liens arising in the ordinary course of business in favor of a customer;
(10) Liens associated with a sale or discount of the accounts receivable of an Obligor, provided that such Lien (a) does not involve the creation of a Lien or negative pledge on any accounts receivable not so sold or discounted and (b) does not involve in the aggregate the sale or discount of accounts receivable having a book value exceeding $100,000,000;
(11) Liens arising in connection with synthetic leases which do not exceed $250,000,000 in the aggregate at any one time; and
(12) Liens securing industrial revenue bonds, pollution control bonds or other similar tax exempt bonds.
"" means any property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, or tangible or intangible, including shares of capital stock.
Property
"" means, as of any date of determination, stockholders' equity as reflected on the most recent consolidated balance sheet available to the Issuer prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Stockholders' Equity
"" of any specified Person means any corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of capital stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more of the other Subsidiaries of that Person or a combination thereof.
Subsidiary
 
Section 4.01An "Event of Default" with respect to Securities of any series means the occurrence of one or more of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
. Event of Default; Acceleration of Maturity; Waiver of Default.
(a) default by any Obligor in the payment of any installment of interest upon any of the Securities of such series as and when the same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days or more;
(b) default by any Obligor in the payment of the principal, or premium, if any, or sinking fund installment, if any, on any of the Securities of such series as and when the same shall become due and payable either at maturity, upon redemption, by declaration or otherwise;
(c) default by any Obligor in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or warranty of an Obligor in respect of the Securities of such series (other than defaults pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) above), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days or more after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Issuer by the Trustee or to the Issuer and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class) thereby, a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "" hereunder;
Notice of Default
(d) the Guarantee shall not be (or is claimed by the Guarantor not to be) in full force and effect;
(e) a court having jurisdiction in the premises shall enter a decree or order for relief in respect of any Obligor or any material Subsidiary of the Issuer in an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee or sequestrator (or similar official) of such party or for any substantial part of such party's Property or ordering the winding up or liquidation of such party's affairs, and such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days;
(f) any Obligor or any material Subsidiary of the Issuer shall commence a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or consent to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, or consent to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee or sequestrator (or similar official) of such party or for any substantial part of such party's Property, or make any general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or
 
(g) any other Event of Default provided in the Officer's Certificate, supplemental indenture or Resolution of the Board of Directors under which such series of Securities is issued or in the form of Security for such series.
If an Event of Default described in clauses 4.01(a), 4.01(b), 4.01(c), 4.01(d) or 4.01(g) above (if the Event of Default under clause 4.01(c) is with respect to less than all series of Securities then Outstanding) occurs and is continuing, then, and in each and every such case, unless the principal of all of the Securities of such series shall have already become due and payable, the Trustee may, and at the direction of the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class) by notice in writing to the Issuer (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), shall declare the entire principal (or, if the Securities of such series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected, together with all accrued and unpaid interest and premium, if any, to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become immediately due and payable.
If an Event of Default described in clauses 4.01(e) or 4.01(f) above occurs and is continuing, then the entire principal amount of the Outstanding Securities will automatically become due immediately and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class) by written notice to the Issuer and to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Securities of all series affected waive all past defaults and rescind and annul a declaration of acceleration and its consequences if:
(i) all existing Events of Default, other than the nonpayment of the principal of and interest on the Securities that have become due solely by the declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived, and
(ii) the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree.
For all purposes under the Indenture, if a portion of the principal of any Original Issue Discount Securities shall have been accelerated and declared due and payable pursuant to the provisions hereof, then, from and after such declaration, unless such declaration has been rescinded and annulled, the principal amount of such Original Issue Discount Securities shall be deemed, for all purposes hereunder, to be such portion of the
 
principal thereof as shall be due and payable as a result of such acceleration, and payment of such portion of the principal thereof as shall be due and payable as a result of such acceleration, together with interest, if any, thereon and all other amounts owing thereunder, shall constitute payment in full of such Original Issue Discount Securities.
Section 4.02The Issuer covenants that (a) in case default shall be made in the payment of any installment of interest on any of the Securities of any series when such interest shall have become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of 30 days or (b) in case default shall be made in the payment of all or any part of the principal of any of the Securities of any series when the same shall have become due and payable, whether upon maturity of the Securities of such series or upon any redemption or by declaration or otherwisethen upon demand of the Trustee, the Issuer will pay to the Trustee for the benefit of the Holders of all of the Securities of all series affected the whole amount that then shall have become due and payable on all of the Securities of all series affected for principal or interest, as the case may be (with interest to the date of such payment upon the overdue principal and, to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law, on overdue installments of interest at the same rate as the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) specified in the Securities of such series); and in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including reasonable compensation to the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee, their respective agents, attorneys and counsel, and any expenses and liabilities incurred by the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee except as a result of its negligence or bad faith.
. Collection of Indebtedness by Trustee; Trustee May Prove Debt.
Until such demand is made by the Trustee, the Issuer may pay the principal of and interest on the Securities of any series to the Holders, whether or not the principal of and interest on the Securities of such series be overdue.
In case the Issuer shall fail forthwith to pay such amounts upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, shall be entitled and empowered to institute any action or proceedings at law or in equity for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any such action or proceedings to judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such judgment or final decree against the Issuer or other obligor upon such Securities and collect in the manner provided by law out of the Property of the Issuer or other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated, the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable.
In case there shall be pending proceedings relative to the Issuer or any other obligor upon the Securities under Bankruptcy Law, or in case a receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or reorganization, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official shall have been appointed for or taken possession of the Issuer or its Property or such other obligor, or in case of any other comparable judicial proceedings relative to the Issuer or other obligor upon the Securities of any series, or to the creditors or Property of the Issuer or such other
 
obligor, the Trustee, irrespective of whether the principal of any Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand pursuant to the provisions of this Section, shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceedings or otherwise:
(a) to file and prove a claim or claims for the whole amount of principal and interest (or, if the Securities of any series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities of any series, and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for reasonable compensation to the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee, and their respective agents, attorneys and counsel, and for reimbursement of all expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee, except as a result of negligence or bad faith) and of the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Issuer or other obligor upon the Securities of any series, or to the creditors or Property of the Issuer or such other obligor,
(b) unless prohibited by applicable law and regulations, to vote on behalf of the Holders of the Securities of any series in any election of a trustee or a standby trustee in arrangement, reorganization, liquidation or other bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings or Person performing similar functions in comparable proceedings, and
(c) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims, and to distribute all amounts received with respect to the claims of the Holders and of the Trustee on their behalf; and any trustee, receiver, or liquidator, custodian or other similar official is hereby authorized by each of the Holders to make payments to the Trustee, and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee such amounts as shall be sufficient to cover reasonable compensation to the Trustee, each predecessor Trustee and their respective agents, attorneys and counsel, and all other expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee except as a result of negligence or bad faith and all other amounts due to the Trustee or any predecessor Trustee pursuant to Section 5.06.
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or vote for or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan or reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities of any series or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding except, as aforesaid, to vote for the election of a trustee in bankruptcy or similar Person.
 
All rights of action and of asserting claims under the Indenture, or under any of the Securities, may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof on any trial or other proceedings relative thereto, and any such action or proceedings instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment, subject to the payment of the reasonable expenses, disbursements and compensation of the Trustee, each predecessor Trustee and their respective agents and attorneys, shall be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such action was taken.
In any proceedings brought by the Trustee (and also any proceedings involving the interpretation of any provision of the Indenture to which the Trustee shall be a party) the Trustee shall be held to represent all the Holders of the Securities in respect to which such action was taken, and it shall not be necessary to make any Holders of such Securities parties to any such proceedings.
Section 4.03Any moneys collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article in respect of any series shall be applied in the following order at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such moneys on account of principal or interest, upon presentation of the several Securities in respect of which moneys have been collected and stamping (or otherwise noting) thereon the payment, or issuing Securities of such series in reduced principal amounts in exchange for the presented Securities of like series if only partially paid, or upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
. Application of Proceeds.
FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee and any predecessor Trustee pursuant to Section 5.06;
SECOND: In case the principal of the Securities of such series in respect of which moneys have been collected shall not have become and be then due and payable, to the payment of interest on the Securities of such series in default in the order of the maturity of the installments of such interest, with interest (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon the overdue installments of interest at the same rate as the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) specified in such Securities, such payments to be made ratably to the Persons entitled thereto, without discrimination or preference;
THIRD: In case the principal of the Securities of such series in respect of which moneys have been collected shall have become and shall be then due and payable, to the payment of the whole amount then owing and unpaid upon all the Securities of such series for principal and interest, with interest upon the overdue principal, and (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon overdue installments of interest at the same rate as the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) specified in the
 
Securities of such series; and in case such moneys shall be insufficient to pay in full the whole amount so due and unpaid upon the Securities of such series, then to the payment of such principal and interest or Yield to Maturity, without preference or priority of principal over interest or Yield to Maturity, or of interest or Yield to Maturity over principal, or of any installment of interest over any other installment of interest, or of any Security of such series over any other Security of such series, ratably to the aggregate of such principal and accrued and unpaid interest or Yield to Maturity; and
FOURTH: To the payment of the remainder, if any, to the Issuer or any other Person lawfully entitled thereto.
Section 4.04In case an Event of Default has occurred, has not been waived and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce the rights vested in it by the Indenture by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any of such rights, either at law or in equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement contained in the Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in the Indenture or to enforce any other legal or equitable right vested in the Trustee by the Indenture or by law.
. Suits for Enforcement.
Section 4.05In case the Trustee shall have proceeded to enforce any right under the Indenture and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or shall have been determined adversely to the Trustee, then and in every such case the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Trustee shall be restored respectively to their former positions and rights hereunder, and all rights, remedies and powers of the Issuer, the Guarantor, the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceedings had been taken.
. Restoration of Rights on Abandonment of Proceedings.
Section 4.06No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right by virtue or by availing of any provision of the Indenture to institute any action or proceeding at law or in equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise upon or under or with respect to the Indenture, or for the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official or for any other remedy hereunder, unless (i) such Holder previously shall have given to the Trustee written notice of default and of the continuance thereof, as hereinbefore provided; (ii) the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class) shall have made written request upon the Trustee to institute such action or proceedings in its own name as Trustee hereunder; (iii) such Holder or Holders shall have offered to the Trustee such security or indemnity as it may reasonably require against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request; (iv) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity shall have failed to institute any such action or proceeding; and (v) no direction inconsistent with such written request shall have been given to the Trustee during
. Limitations on Suits by Holder.
 
such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected. It is understood and intended, and expressly covenanted by the taker and Holder of every Security with every other taker and Holder and the Trustee, that no one or more Holders of any series shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue or by availing of any provision of the Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other such Holder, or to obtain or seek to obtain priority over or preference to any other such Holder or to enforce any right under the Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal, ratable and common benefit of all Holders of the applicable series. For the protection and enforcement of the provisions of this Section, each and every Holder and the Trustee shall be entitled to such relief as can be given either at law or in equity.
Section 4.07Notwithstanding any other provision in the Indenture and any provision of any Security, the right of any Holder of any Security to receive payment of the principal of and interest on such Security on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Security, or to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
. Unconditional Right of Holders to Institute Certain Suits.
Section 4.08Except as provided in Section 4.06, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
. Powers and Remedies Cumulative; Delay or Omission Not Waiver of Default.
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder to exercise any right or power accruing upon any Event of Default occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein; and, subject to Section 4.06, every power and remedy given by the Indenture or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as shall be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders.
Section 4.09Subject to the provisions of Section 5.04(d), the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class) shall have the right to direct the time, method, and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to the Securities of each such series by the Indenture; , , that such direction shall not be otherwise than in accordance with law and the provisions of the Indenture. Subject to the provisions of Section 5.01, the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, shall determine that the action or
. Control by Holders.
provided
however
 
proceeding so directed may not lawfully be taken or if the Trustee in good faith shall determine that the action or proceedings so directed would involve the Trustee in personal liability or if the Trustee in good faith shall determine that the actions or forbearances specified in or pursuant to such direction would be unduly prejudicial to the interests of Holders of the Securities of all series so affected not joining in the giving of said direction, it being understood that (subject to Section 5.01) the Trustee shall have no duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such Holders.
Nothing in the Indenture shall impair the right of the Trustee in its discretion to take any action deemed proper by the Trustee and which is not inconsistent with such direction or directions by Holders.
Section 4.10Except as otherwise provided in Sections 4.01, 4.07 and 7.02, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class) may, by notice to the Trustee, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of each such series waive an existing default and its consequences. Upon such waiver, the default will cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom will be deemed to have been cured, but no such waiver will extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
. Waiver of Past Defaults.
Section 4.11The Trustee shall give to the Holders of all of the Securities of all series affected, as the names and addresses of such Holders appear on the Register, notice by mail of all Events of Default known to the Trustee which have occurred with respect to such series, such notice to be transmitted within 45 days after the Trustee obtains knowledge thereof, unless such Events of Default shall have been cured before the giving of such notice; that, except in the case of default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any of the Securities of such series, or in the payment of any sinking or purchase fund installment with respect to the Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee, or a trust committee of directors or trustees and/or responsible officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Holders of such series.
. Trustee to Give Notice of Default, But May Withhold in Certain Circumstances.
provided
Section 4.12In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under the Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit (other than the Trustee) to file an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys fees, against any party litigant (other than the Trustee) in the suit having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section does not apply to a suit by a Holder to enforce payment of principal of or interest on any Security on the respective due dates.
. Right of Court to Require Filing of Undertaking to Pay Costs.
 
Section 5.01(a) The duties and responsibilities of the Trustee are as provided by the Trust Indenture Act and as set forth herein. Whether or not expressly so provided, every provision of the Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee is subject to this Article.
. Duties and Responsibilities of the Trustee; During Default; Prior to Default.
(b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in the Indenture and no others, and no implied covenants or obligations will be read into the Indenture against the Trustee. In the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
(c) In case an Event of Default of which a Responsible Officer shall have actual knowledge or shall have received written notice from the Issuer or any Holder of Securities of any series has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise those rights and powers vested in it by the Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
(d) No provision of the Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, that (i) this subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of Section 5.01(b), (ii) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts, (iii) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected, relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to such Securities; and no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any
provided
 
financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
Section 5.02Subject to the provisions of Section 9.06 hereof, all moneys received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. Neither the Trustee nor any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be liable for interest on any money received by it hereunder except such as it may agree with the Issuer in writing to pay thereon.
. Moneys Held by Trustee.
Section 5.03Within 60 days after each May 15, beginning with May 15, 2011, the Trustee will mail to each Holder, as provided in Trust Indenture Act Section 313(c), a brief report dated as of such May 15, if required by Trust Indenture Act Section 313(a), and file such reports with each stock exchange upon which its Securities are listed and with the Commission if, and to the extent, required by Trust Indenture Act Section 313(d).
. Reports by the Trustee to Holders.
The Trustee shall comply with Section 313(b) and 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act.
A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with the Issuer, with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed (if so listed) and also with the Commission.
Section 5.04Subject to Trust Indenture Act Sections 315(a) through (d):
. Certain Rights of the Trustee.
(a) In the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may rely, and will be protected in acting or refraining from acting, upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document, but, in the case of any document which is specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to any provision hereof, the Trustee shall examine the document to determine whether it conforms to the requirements of the Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein). The Trustee, in its discretion, may make further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it sees fit.
(b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officer's Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel conforming to Section 10.05 and the Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on the certificate or opinion.
 
(c) The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and will not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any attorney or agent appointed by the Trustee with due care.
(d) The Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by the Indenture or to institute, conduct or defend any litigation hereunder or in relation hereto at the request or direction of any of the Holders, unless such Holders have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity as it may reasonably require against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
(e) The Trustee will not be liable in its individual capacity for any action it takes, suffers or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers or for any action it takes or omits to take in accordance with the direction of the Holders in accordance with Section 4.09 relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under the Indenture.
(f) The Trustee may consult with counsel, and any advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel will be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.
(g) No provision of the Indenture will require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of its rights or powers, unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
(h) The Trustee shall not be liable in its individual capacity for an error in judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer or other officers of the Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts.
(i) The Trustee shall not be personally liable for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by the Indenture.
(j) The Trustee shall have no duty to see to any recording, filing or depositing of the Indenture or any agreement referred to herein or any financing statement or continuation statement evidencing a security interest, or to see to the maintenance of any such re-recording or re-filing or re-depositing thereof.
 
(k) The Trustee shall not be required to take notice or be deemed to have notice or knowledge of any default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received written notice from the Issuer or any Holder of the Securities or obtained actual knowledge thereof. In the absence of receipt of such notice or actual knowledge, the Trustee may conclusively assume that there is no default or Event of Default.
(l) In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
(m) The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
(n) The Trustee may request from time to time that the Issuer deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to the Indenture.
Section 5.05The Trustee or any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee or such agent and may otherwise deal with the Issuer and receive, collect, hold and retain collections from the Issuer with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee or such agent.
. Trustee and Agents May Hold Securities; Collections, etc.
Section 5.06(a) The Issuer and the Guarantor agree, jointly and severally, to pay the Trustee compensation as agreed upon in writing for its services. The compensation of the Trustee is not limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Issuer and the Guarantor agree, jointly and severally, to reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee, (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all agents and other Persons not regularly in its employ) except to the extent any such expense, disbursement or advance may arise from its negligence or bad faith. The Issuer and the Guarantor also covenant to indemnify the Trustee, its directors, officers, employees and agents and each predecessor Trustee, its directors, officers, employees and agents for, and to hold each of them harmless against, any loss, liability or expense arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the Indenture or the trusts hereunder and the performance of its duties hereunder and under the Securities, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against or investigating any claim of liability in the premises and the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability and of complying with any process served upon it or any of its officers, except to the extent such loss liability or expense is due to the negligence or bad faith of the Trustee or
. Compensation and Indemnification of Trustee and Its Prior Claim.
 
such predecessor Trustee. Expenses incurred by the Trustee in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 4.01 (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the Trustee's compensation for any services rendered in connection therewith are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law.
(b) To secure the Issuer's and the Guarantor's payment obligations in this Section, the Trustee will have a lien prior to the Securities on all money or Property held or collected by the Trustee, in its capacity as Trustee, except money or Property held in trust to pay principal of, and interest on particular Securities.
The obligations of the Issuer and the Guarantor under this Section 5.06 shall survive the resignation and removal of the Trustee and payment of the Securities, and shall extend to any co-trustee or separate trustee.
Section 5.07Subject to Sections 5.01 and 5.04, whenever in the administration of the trusts of the Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering or omitting any action hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officer's Certificate delivered to the Trustee, and such certificate, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it under the provisions of the Indenture upon the faith thereof.
. Right of Trustee to Rely on Officer's Certificate, etc.
Section 5.08. If the Trustee has or shall acquire any "conflicting interest" within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee and the Issuer shall in all respects comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
. Disqualification; Conflicting Interests
Section 5.09The Indenture must always have a Trustee that satisfies the requirements of Trust Indenture Act Section 310(a) and has a combined capital and surplus of at least $25,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition.
. Persons Eligible for Appointment as Trustee.
Section 5.10(a) The Trustee, or any trustee or trustees hereafter appointed, may at any time resign with respect to one or more or all series of Securities by giving written notice of resignation to the Issuer and by mailing notice thereof by first class mail to Holders of the applicable series of Securities at their last addresses as they shall appear on the Register. Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Issuer shall promptly appoint a successor trustee or trustees with respect to the applicable series by written instrument in duplicate, executed by authority of the Board of Directors, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to
. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor Trustee.
 
the resigning Trustee and one copy to the successor trustee or trustees. If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed with respect to any series and have accepted appointment within 30 days after the mailing of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee, or any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security or Securities of the applicable series for at least six months may, subject to the provisions of Section 4.12, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any such court for the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor trustee.
(b) In case at any time any of the following shall occur:
(i) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to any series of Securities after written request therefor by the Issuer or by any Holder who has been a Holder of a Security or Securities of such series for at least six months; or
bona fide
(ii) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of Section 310(a) of the Trust Indenture Act and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Issuer or by any Holder; or
(iii) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting with respect to any series of Securities, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or a receiver or liquidator of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation;
then, in any such case, the Issuer may remove the Trustee with respect to the applicable series of Securities and appoint a successor trustee for such series by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors of the Issuer, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the Trustee so removed and one copy to the successor trustee, or any Holder who has been a Holder of a Security or Securities of such series for at least six months may on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee with respect to such series. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee.
bona fide
(c) The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding may at any time remove the Trustee with respect to Securities of such series and appoint a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series with the consent of the Issuer by delivering to the Trustee so removed, to the successor Trustee so appointed and to the Issuer the evidence provided for in Section 6.01 of the action in that regard taken by the Holders.
 
(d) Any resignation or removal of the Trustee with respect to any series and any appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to such series pursuant to any of the provisions of this Section 5.10 shall become effective upon acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee as provided in Section 5.11.
(e) Any successor Trustee appointed pursuant to this Section may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more series or all of such series, and at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series.
Section 5.11Any successor Trustee appointed as provided in Section 5.10 shall execute and deliver to the Issuer and to its predecessor Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the predecessor Trustee with respect to all or any applicable series shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all rights, powers, duties and obligations with respect to such series of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as trustee for such series hereunder; but, nevertheless, on the written request of the Issuer or of the successor Trustee, upon payment of its charges then unpaid, the trustee ceasing to act shall, subject to Section 9.06, pay over to the successor Trustee all moneys at the time held by it hereunder and shall execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers, duties and obligations.
. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.
If a successor Trustee is appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Issuer, the predecessor Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any applicable series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto prepared by and at the expense of the Issuer which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the predecessor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series as to which the predecessor Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the predecessor Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of the Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts under separate indentures.
Upon acceptance of appointment by any successor Trustee as provided in this Section 5.11, the Issuer shall mail notice thereof by first-class mail to the Holders of any series for which such successor Trustee is acting as trustee at their last addresses as they shall appear in the Register. If the acceptance of appointment is substantially contemporaneous with the resignation, then the notice called for by the preceding sentence may be combined with the notice called for by Section 5.10. If the Issuer fails to mail such notice within ten days after acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee, the successor Trustee shall cause such notice to be mailed at the expense of the Issuer.
 
Section 5.12If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation or national banking association, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation or national banking association without any further act will be the successor Trustee with the same effect as if the successor Trustee had been named as the Trustee in the Indenture.
. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business of Trustee.
In case at the time such successor to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by the Indenture any of the Securities of any series shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and, in case at that time any of the Securities of any series shall not have been authenticated, any successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor Trustee; and in all such cases such certificate shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities of such series or in the Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have; , that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or to authenticate Securities of any series in the name of any predecessor Trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation.
provided
Section 5.13The Trustees shall comply with Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, excluding any creditor relationship described in Section 311(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act to the extent included therein.
. Preferential Collection of Claims Against the Issuer.
Section 5.14The Trustee (i) makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of the Indenture or the Securities, (ii) is not accountable for the Issuer's use or application of the proceeds from the Securities and (iii) is not responsible for any statement in the Securities other than its certificate of authentication.
. Trustee's Disclaimer.
Section 6.01Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by the Indenture to be given or taken by a specified percentage in principal amount of the Holders of any or all series may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such specified percentage of Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee.
. Evidence of Action Taken by Holders.
 
If the Issuer shall solicit from the Holders of any series any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, the Issuer may, at its option, as evidenced by an Officer's Certificate, fix in advance a record date for such series for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, but the Issuer shall have no obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, may be given before or after the record date, but only the Holders of the requisite proportion of Outstanding Securities of that series who have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, and for that purpose the Outstanding Securities of that series shall be computed as of the record date; , , that no such authorization, agreement or consent by such Holders on the record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture not later than six months after the record date.
provided
however
Proof of execution of any instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of the Indenture and (subject to Sections 5.01 and 5.04) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Issuer, if made in the manner provided in this Article.
Section 6.02Subject to Sections 5.01 and 5.04, the execution of any instrument by a Holder or his agent or proxy may be proved in accordance with such reasonable rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Trustee or in such manner as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. The holding of Securities shall be proved by the Register or by a certificate of the registrar thereof. The Issuer may set a record date for purposes of determining the identity of Holders of any series entitled to vote or consent to any action referred to in Section 6.01, which record date may be set at any time or from time to time by notice to the Trustee, for any date or dates (in the case of any adjournment or reconsideration) not more than 60 days nor less than five days prior to the proposed date of such vote or consent, and thereafter, notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, only Holders of such series of record on such record date shall be entitled to so vote or give such consent or revoke such vote or consent. Notice of such record date may be given before or after any request for any action referred to in Section 6.01 is made by the Issuer.
. Proof of Execution of Instruments and of Holding of Securities; Record Date.
Section 6.03Prior to the due presentment for registration of transfer of any Security, the Issuer, the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Security shall be registered upon the Register for such series as the absolute owner of such Security (whether or not such Security shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing thereon) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account
. Holders to Be Treated as Owners.
 
of the principal of, and, subject to the provisions of the Indenture, interest on such Security and for all other purposes; and neither the Issuer, the Trustee, nor any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. All such payments so made to any such Person, or upon his order, shall be valid, and, to the extent of the sum or sums so paid, effectual to satisfy and discharge the liability for moneys payable upon any such Security.
Section 6.04In determining whether the Holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities of any or all series have concurred in any direction, consent or waiver under the Indenture, Securities which are owned by the Issuer or any other obligor on the Securities with respect to which such determination is being made or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Issuer or any other obligor on the Securities with respect to which such determination is being made shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding for the purpose of any such determination, except that for the purpose of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, consent or waiver only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows are so owned, or has received written notice that such Securities are so owned, shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Issuer or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Issuer or any other obligor on the Securities. In case of a dispute as to such right, the advice of counsel shall be full protection in respect of any decision made by the Trustee in accordance with such advice. Upon request of the Trustee, the Issuer shall furnish to the Trustee promptly an Officer's Certificate listing and identifying all Securities, if any, known by the Issuer to be owned or held by or for the account of any of the above-described Persons; and, subject to Sections 5.01 and 5.04, the Trustee shall be entitled to accept such Officer's Certificate as conclusive evidence of the facts therein set forth and of the fact that all Securities not listed therein are Outstanding for the purpose of any such determination.
. Securities Owned by Issuer Deemed Not Outstanding.
Section 6.05At any time prior to (but not after) the evidencing to the Trustee, as provided in Section 6.01, of the taking of any action by the Holders of the percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any or all series, as the case may be, specified in the Indenture in connection with such action, any Holder of a Security the serial number of which is shown by the evidence to be included among the serial numbers of the Securities the Holders of which have consented to such action may, by filing written notice at the applicable Corporate Trust Office and upon proof of holding as provided in this Article, revoke such action so far as concerns such Security. Except as aforesaid any such action taken by the Holder of any Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of such Security and of any Securities issued in exchange or substitution therefor, irrespective of
. Right of Revocation of Action Taken.
 
whether or not any notation in regard thereto is made upon any such Security. Any action taken by the Holders of the percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any or all series, as the case may be, specified in the Indenture in connection with such action shall be conclusively binding upon the Issuer, the Trustee and the Holders of all the Securities affected by such action.
Section 7.01The Issuer, the Guarantor and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Securities or enter into an indenture supplemental hereto without notice to or the consent of any Holder to:
. Supplemental Indentures without Consent of Holders.
(a) cure ambiguities, defects or inconsistencies;
(b) make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Securities of a series;
(c) provide for or add guarantors with respect to the Securities of any series;
(d) secure the Securities of any series;
(e) establish the form or forms of Securities of any series;
(f) provide for uncertificated Securities of any series in addition to or in place of certificated Securities of the applicable series;
(g) evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor Trustee;
(h) provide for the assumption by a successor corporation, partnership, trust or limited liability company of the Issuer's obligations to the Holders of the Securities of any series, in each case in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture;
(i) maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act;
(j) conform any provision in the Indenture or the terms of the Securities of any series to the prospectus, offering memorandum, offering circular or any other document pursuant to which the Securities of such series were offered; or
(k) make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder in any material respect.
 
The Trustee is hereby authorized to join with the Issuer and the Guarantor in the execution of any such amendment or supplemental indenture, to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations which may be therein contained and to accept the conveyance, transfer, assignment, mortgage or pledge of any Property thereunder, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into any such amendment or supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Indenture or otherwise.
Any amendment or supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this section may be executed without notice to and without the consent of the Holders of any of the Securities at the time Outstanding, notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 7.02.
Section 7.02(a) With the consent (evidenced as provided in Article 6) of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such amendment or supplemental indenture (voting together as a single class), the Issuer, when authorized by a Resolution of its Board of Directors, the Guarantor and the Trustee may, from time to time and at any time, enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each such series and such Holders may waive future compliance by the Issuer with a provision of the Indenture or the Securities.
. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a), without the consent of each affected Holder, an amendment, supplement or waiver may not:
(i) reduce the principal amount, or extend the fixed maturity, of the Securities, alter or waive the redemption provisions of the Securities;
(ii) impair the right of any Holder of the Securities to receive payment of principal or interest on the Securities on and after the due dates for such principal or interest;
(iii) change the currency in which principal, any premium or interest is paid;
(iv) reduce the percentage in principal amount Outstanding of Securities of any series which must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver or consent to take any action;
(v) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on the Securities;
 
(vi) waive a payment default with respect to the Securities or any guarantor;
(vii) reduce the interest rate or extend the time for payment of interest on the Securities; or
(viii) adversely affect the ranking of the Securities of any series.
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof.
Section 7.03Upon the request of the Issuer, accompanied by a copy of a Resolution of the Board of Directors certified by the secretary or an assistant secretary of the Issuer authorizing the execution of any such amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Holders as aforesaid and other documents, if any, required by Section 6.01, the Trustee shall join with the Issuer and the Guarantor in the execution of such amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver unless such supplemental indenture or waiver affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver.
. Execution of Amendments or Supplemental Indentures or Waivers.
The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Sections 5.01 and 5.04, may receive an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver executed pursuant to this Article 7 complies with the applicable provisions of the Indenture and stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture; , , that such Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel need not be provided in connection with the execution of an amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver that establishes the terms of a series of Securities pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof.
provided
however
Promptly after the execution by the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Trustee of any amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the Issuer shall mail a notice thereof by first class mail to the Holders of each series affected thereby at their addresses as they shall appear on the Register of the Issuer, setting forth in general terms the substance of such amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver. Any failure of the Issuer to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver.
Section 7.04. Upon the execution of any amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver pursuant to the provisions hereof, the Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance
Effect of Amendment, Supplemental Indenture or Waiver.
 
therewith and the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under the Indenture of the Trustee, the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Holders of each series affected thereby shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of the Indenture for any and all purposes.
Section 7.05After an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, it will bind every Holder unless it is of the type requiring the consent of each Holder affected. If the amendment, supplement or waiver is of the type requiring the consent of each Holder affected, the amendment, supplement or waiver will bind each Holder that has consented to it and every subsequent Holder of a Security that evidences the same debt as the Security of the consenting Holder.
. Effect of Consent.
Section 7.06Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver pursuant to the provisions of this Article may bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee for such series, as to any matter provided for by such amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver or as to any action taken at any such meeting. If the Trustee shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors of the Issuer, to any modification of the Indenture contained in any such amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver may be prepared by the Issuer, authenticated by the Trustee and delivered in exchange for the Securities of such series then Outstanding.
. Notation on Securities in Respect of Amendments, Supplemental Indentures or Waivers.
Section 7.07. Every amendment, supplemental indenture or waiver executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
Conformity with the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 8.01(a) No Obligor shall merge or consolidate or combine with or into or, directly or indirectly, sell, assign, convey, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to any Person or Persons in a single transaction or through a series of transactions, unless:
. Consolidation, Merger or Sale of Assets by an Obligor.
(i) such Obligor shall be the continuing Person or, if such Obligor is not the continuing Person, the resulting, surviving or transferee Person (the "") is a company organized and existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia;
Surviving Entity
 
(ii) the Surviving Entity shall expressly assume all of such Obligor's obligations under the Securities and the Indenture, and shall, if required by law to effectuate the assumption, execute a supplemental indenture in form satisfactory to the Trustee which will be delivered to the Trustee;
(iii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction or series of transactions on a pro forma basis, no default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing; and
(iv) such Obligor or the Surviving Entity, as applicable, will have delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel stating that the transaction or series of transactions and a supplemental indenture, if any, complies with this Section 8.01 and that all conditions precedent in the Indenture relating to the transaction or series of transactions have been satisfied.
(b) The restrictions in paragraph Sections 8.01(a)(iii) and 8.01(a)(iv) shall not be applicable to:
(i) the merger or consolidation of an Obligor with an affiliate of such Obligor if the Board of Directors determines in good faith that the purpose of such transaction is principally to change the state of incorporation of such Obligor or convert the form of organization of such Obligor to another form; or
(ii) the merger of an Obligor with or into a single direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of such Obligor pursuant to Section 251(g) (or any successor provision) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (or similar provision of such Obligor's state of incorporation).
Section 8.02If any consolidation or merger or any sale, assignment, conveyance, lease, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of an Obligor's assets occurs in accordance with the Indenture, the successor Person shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of such Obligor under the Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named herein as such Obligor and such Obligor shall (except in the case of a lease) be discharged from all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Securities.
. Successor Substituted.
 
Section 9.01The Issuer may terminate its obligations under the Indenture, together with the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder, when:
. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.
(a) either (i) all the Securities of any series issued that have been authenticated and delivered have been accepted by the Trustee for cancellation (other than any Securities of such series which shall have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which shall have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.09); or (ii) all the Securities of any series issued that have not been accepted by the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable, or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year, and the Issuer shall have made irrevocable arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by such Trustee in the Issuer's name, and at the Issuer's expense and the Issuer have irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee sufficient funds to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on the series of Securities to pay principal, interest and any premium; and
(b) The Issuer shall have paid or caused to be paid all other sums then due and payable under the Indenture; and
(c) The Issuer shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent under the Indenture relating to the satisfaction and discharge of the indenture have been complied with.
If the foregoing conditions are met, the Trustee, on written demand of the Issuer accompanied by an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel and at the cost and expense of the Issuer, shall execute proper instruments prepared by the Issuer acknowledging such satisfaction of and discharging the Indenture with respect to such series except as to:
(1) rights of registration of transfer and exchange of Securities of such series, and the Issuer's right of optional redemption, if any;
(2) substitution of mutilated, defaced, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities;
(3) rights of Holders to receive payments when due of principal thereof and interest thereon;
(4) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder;
(5) the rights of the Holders of such series as beneficiaries hereof with respect to the Property so deposited with the Trustee payable to all or any of them; and
(6) the rights of the Issuer to be repaid any money pursuant to Sections 9.05 and 9.06.
 
Section 9.02After the 91st day following the deposit referred to in Section 9.01, the Issuer will be deemed to have paid and the Issuer and the Guarantor will be discharged from their respective obligations in respect of the Securities of any series and the Indenture, other than their respective obligations in Article 2 and Sections 3.01, 3.02, 5.06, 5.10, and listed in clauses (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) of Section 9.01, provided the following conditions have been satisfied:
. Legal Defeasance.
(a) The Issuer has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to the benefits of the Holders of the Securities of a series in cash or Governmental Obligations or a combination thereof (other than moneys repaid by the Trustee or any paying agent to the Issuer in accordance with Section 9.06) in each case sufficient without reinvestment, in the written opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee to pay and discharge, all of the principal, interest and any premium at due date or maturity or if the Issuer has made irrevocable arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the trustee in the Issuer's name and at the Issuer's expense, the redemption date;
(b) The Issuer has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that, as a result of an U.S. Internal Revenue Service ruling or a change in applicable U.S. federal income tax law, the Holders of the Securities of that series will not recognize gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit, defeasance and discharge to be effected and will be subject to the same U.S. federal income tax as would be the case if the deposit, defeasance and discharge did not occur;
(c) No default with respect to the outstanding Securities of that series has occurred and is continuing at the time of such deposit after giving effect to the deposit or, in the case of legal defeasance, no default relating to bankruptcy or insolvency has occurred and is continuing at any time on or before the 91st day after the date of such deposit (other than an Event of Default resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit and the grant of any Lien securing such borrowings), it being understood that this condition is not deemed satisfied until after the 91st day;
(d) The defeasance will not cause the Trustee to have a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, assuming all Securities of a series were in default within the meaning of such Act;
(e) The defeasance will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, the Indenture (other than an Event of Default resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit and the grant of any Lien securing such borrowings) or any other material agreement or instrument to which the Issuer or the Guarantor is a party or by which it is bound;
(f) The defeasance will not result in the trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, unless the trust is registered under such Act or exempt from registration; and
 
(g) The Issuer has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, in each case stating that all conditions precedent provided for herein relating to the defeasance have been complied with;
Prior to the end of the 91-day period, none of the obligations of the Issuer or the Guarantor under the Indenture will be discharged. Thereafter, the Trustee upon request will acknowledge in writing the discharge of the obligations of the Issuer and the Guarantor under the Securities, the Guarantee and the Indenture except for the surviving obligations specified above.
Section 9.03After the 91st day following the deposit referred to in Section 9.01, the Issuer's obligations set forth in Sections 3.04, 3.05 and 8.01 will terminate, the Guarantor's obligations under Article 12 will terminate and Section 4.01(c) will no longer constitute an Event of Default, provided the following conditions have been satisfied:
. Covenant Defeasance.
(a) The Issuer has complied with clauses (a), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) of Section 9.02; and
(b) the Issuer has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of the Securities of that series will not recognize gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit and covenant defeasance to be effected and will be subject to the same federal income tax as would be the case if the deposit and covenant defeasance did not occur.
Except as specifically stated above, none of the Issuer's or the Guarantor's obligations under the Indenture will be discharged.
Section 9.04Subject to Section 9.06, all moneys deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 9.01 shall be held in trust and applied by it to the payment, either directly or through any paying agent (including the Issuer acting as its own paying agent), to the Holders of the particular Securities of such series for the payment or redemption of which such moneys or Governmental Obligations have been deposited with the Trustee, of all sums due and to become due thereon for principal and interest. Such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
. Application by Trustee of Funds Deposited for Payment of Securities.
Section 9.05In connection with the satisfaction and discharge of the Indenture with respect to Securities of any series, all moneys then held by any paying agent under the provisions of the Indenture with respect to such series of Securities shall, upon demand of the Issuer, be repaid to the Issuer or paid to the Trustee and thereupon such paying agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such moneys or Governmental Obligations.
. Repayment of Moneys Held by Paying Agent.
 
Section 9.06Any moneys or Governmental Obligations deposited with or paid to the Trustee or any paying agent for the payment of the principal of or interest on any Security of any series and not applied but remaining unclaimed for two years after the date upon which such principal or interest shall have become due and payable, shall, upon the written request of the Issuer and unless otherwise required by mandatory provisions of applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property law, be repaid to the Issuer by the Trustee for such series or such paying agent, and the Holder of the Security of such series shall, unless otherwise required by mandatory provisions of applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property laws, thereafter look only to the Issuer for any payment which such Holder may be entitled to collect, and all liability of the Trustee or any paying agent with respect to such moneys shall thereupon cease.
. Return of Moneys Held by Trustee and Paying Agent Unclaimed for Two Years.
Section 10.01No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement contained in the Indenture, including the Guarantee, or in any Security, or because of any indebtedness evidenced thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, as such, or against any past, present or future stockholder, employee, officer or director, as such, of the Issuer, the Guarantor or of any successor thereof, either directly or through the Issuer, the Guarantor or any successor thereof, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance of the Securities by the Holders thereof and as part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
. Incorporators, Stockholders, Employees, Officers and Directors of Issuer Exempt from Individual Liability.
Section 10.02Nothing in the Indenture or in the Securities, expressed or implied, shall give or be construed to give to any Person, firm or corporation, other than the parties hereto and their successors and the Holders of the Securities, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under the Indenture or under any covenant or provision herein contained, all such covenants and provisions being for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and their successors and of the Holders of the Securities.
. Provisions of Indenture for the Sole Benefit of Parties and Holders.
Section 10.03All the agreements of the Issuer and the Guarantor in the Indenture and the Securities shall bind their respective successors and assigns.
. Successors and Assigns of Issuer and the Guarantor Bound by Indenture.
 
Section 10.04. Any notice or demand which by any provision of the Indenture is required or permitted to be given or served by the Trustee or by the Holders to or on the Issuer or the Guarantor may be given or served by being deposited postage prepaid, first-class mail (except as otherwise specifically provided herein) addressed (until another address is filed with the Trustee by the Issuer or the Guarantor, as applicable) to SAIC, Inc., 1710 SAIC Drive, McLean, Virginia 22102 Attention: Chief Financial Officer and a copy of such notice or demand shall be sent to the Issuer's General Counsel at the same address. Any notice, direction, request or demand by the Issuer, the Guarantor or any Holder to or upon the Trustee shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made, for all purposes, if given or made at the applicable Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee.
Notices and Demands on Issuer, Guarantor, Trustee and Holders.
Where the Indenture provides for notice to Holders, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder entitled thereto, at his last address as it appears in the Register. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where the Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
In case, by reason of the suspension of or irregularities in regular mail service, it shall be impracticable to mail notice to the Issuer, the Guarantor and Holders when such notice is required to be given pursuant to any provision of the Indenture, then any manner of giving such notice as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee shall be deemed to be a sufficient giving of such notice.
In addition to the foregoing, the Trustee agrees to accept and act upon notice, instructions or directions pursuant to this Indenture sent by unsecured e-mail, facsimile transmission or other similar unsecured electronic methods; provided, however, that (a) the party providing such written instructions, subsequent to such transmission of written instructions, shall provide the originally executed instructions or directions to the Trustee in a timely manner, and (b) such originally executed instructions or directions shall be signed by an authorized representative of the party providing such instructions or directions. If the party elects to give the Trustee e-mail or facsimile instructions (or instructions by a similar electronic method) and the Trustee in its discretion elects to act upon such instructions, the Trustee's understanding of such instructions shall be deemed controlling. The Trustee shall not be liable for any losses, costs or expenses arising directly or indirectly from the Trustee's reliance upon and compliance with such instructions notwithstanding such instructions conflict or are inconsistent with a subsequent written instruction. The party providing electronic instructions agrees to assume all risks arising out of the use of such electronic methods to submit instructions and directions to the Trustee, including without limitation the risk of the Trustee acting on unauthorized instructions, and the risk or interception and misuse by third parties.
 
Section 10.05Upon any application or demand by the Issuer to the Trustee to take any action under any of the provisions of the Indenture, the Issuer shall furnish to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in the Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or demand as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of the Indenture relating to such particular application or demand, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
. Officer's Certificates and Opinions of Counsel; Statements to Be Contained Therein.
Each certificate or opinion provided for in the Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in the Indenture shall include (a) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition, (b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based, (c) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with and (d) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
Any certificate, statement or opinion of an officer of the Issuer may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of or representations by counsel, unless such officer knows that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate, statement or opinion may be based as aforesaid are erroneous, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know that the same are erroneous. Any certificate, statement or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, information with respect to which is in the possession of the Issuer, upon the certificate, statement or opinion of or representations by an officer or officers of the Issuer, unless such counsel knows that the certificate, statement or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate, statement or opinion may be based as aforesaid are erroneous, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know that the same are erroneous.
Any certificate, statement or opinion of an officer of the Issuer or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to accounting matters, upon a certificate or opinion of or representations by an accountant or firm of accountants in the employ of the Issuer, unless such officer or counsel, as the case may be, knows that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the accounting matters upon which his certificate, statement or opinion may be based as aforesaid are erroneous, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know that the same are erroneous.
 
Any certificate or opinion of any independent firm of public accountants filed with the Trustee shall contain a statement that such firm is independent.
Section 10.06Except as provided pursuant to Section 2.01 pursuant to a Resolution of the Board of Directors, and as set forth in an Officer's Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental to the Indenture, if the date of maturity of interest on or principal of the Securities of any series or the date fixed for redemption or repayment of any such Security shall not be a Business Day, then payment of interest or principal need not be made on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the date of maturity or the date fixed for redemption, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such date.
. Payments Due on Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays.
Section 10.07The Indenture shall incorporate and be governed by the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of and to govern indentures qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
. Trust Indenture Act of 1939.
Section 10.08The Indenture, including the Guarantee, and each Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
. New York Law to Govern.
Section 10.09. The Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
Section 10.10The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
. Effect of Headings.
Section 10.11. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in the Indenture or in the Securities of any series shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect or impair any other provisions of the Indenture or of such Securities, but the Indenture and such Securities shall be construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein or therein.
Separability.
Section 10.12. . In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Force Majeure
 
Section 10.13. The parties hereto acknowledge that in accordance with Section 326 of the U.S.A. Patriot Act, the Trustee, like all financial institutions and in order to help fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering, is required to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person or legal entity that establishes a relationship or opens an account with the Trustee. The parties to this Indenture agree that they will provide the Trustee with such information as it may request in order for the Trustee to satisfy the requirements of the U.S.A. Patriot Act.
U.S.A. Patriot Act.
Section 10.14. . EACH OF THE ISSUER, THE GUARANTOR AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVE, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES, THE GUARANTEE OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Waiver of Jury Trial
Section 11.01The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to the Securities of any series which are redeemable before their maturity or to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.03 for Securities of such series.
. Applicability of Article.
Section 11.02Notice of redemption to the Holders of any series to be redeemed as a whole or in part at the option of the Issuer shall be given by mailing notice of such redemption by first class mail, postage prepaid, at least 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption to such Holders of such series at their last addresses as they shall appear upon the Register. Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder receives the notice. Failure to give notice by mail, or any defect in the notice to the Holder of any Security of a series designated for redemption as a whole or in part shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Security of such series.
. Notice of Redemption; Partial Redemptions.
 
The notice of redemption to each such Holder shall specify the principal amount of each Security of such series held by such Holder to be redeemed, the date fixed for redemption, the redemption price, the CUSIP, the place or places of payment, that payment will be made upon presentation and surrender of such Securities, that such redemption is pursuant to the mandatory or optional sinking fund, or both, if such be the case, that interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption will be paid as specified in such notice and that on and after said date interest thereon or on the portions thereof to be redeemed will cease to accrue. In case any Security of a series is to be redeemed in part only the notice of redemption shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed and shall state that on and after the date fixed for redemption, upon surrender of such Security, a new Security or Securities of such series in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued.
The notice of redemption of Securities of any series to be redeemed shall be prepared and given by the Issuer or, at the Issuer's request, prepared by the Issuer and given by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Issuer.
The Issuer shall also deliver to the Trustee, at least 45 days (30 days if the Securities to be redeemed are Global Securities and the Issuer prepares the notice of redemption) prior to the date of redemption (unless a shorter period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), an Officer's Certificate setting forth the Section of the Indenture pursuant to which the redemption shall occur, the date fixed for redemption, the principal amount of Securities to be redeemed and the redemption price.
If less than all the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the Securities to be redeemed shall be selected by lot by the Depositary in the case of Securities represented by a Global Security, or, in the case of Securities not represented by a Global Security, the Trustee shall select, in such manner as it shall deem appropriate and fair, Securities of such series to be redeemed in whole or in part. Securities may be redeemed in part in multiples equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of such series or any multiple thereof. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Issuer in writing of the Securities of such series selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities of such series selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. For all purposes of the Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities of any series shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Security which has been or is to be redeemed.
At least one Business Day prior to the redemption date specified in the notice of redemption given as provided in this Section, the Issuer will deposit with the Trustee or with one or more paying agents (or, if the Issuer is acting as its own paying agent, set aside, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 3.03) an amount of money sufficient to redeem on the redemption date all the Securities of such series so called for redemption at the appropriate redemption price, together with accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption.
 
Section 11.03If notice of redemption has been given as above provided, the Securities or portions of Securities specified in such notice shall become due and payable on the date and at the place stated in such notice at the applicable redemption price, together with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption, and on and after said date (unless the Issuer shall default in the payment of such Securities at the redemption price, together with interest accrued to said date) interest on the Securities or portions of Securities so called for redemption shall cease to accrue and such Securities shall cease from and after the date fixed for redemption to be entitled to any benefit or security under the Indenture, and the Holders thereof shall have no right in respect of such Securities except the right to receive the redemption price thereof and unpaid interest to the date fixed for redemption. On presentation and surrender of such Securities at a place of payment specified in said notice, said Securities or the specified portions thereof shall be paid and redeemed by the Issuer at the applicable redemption price, together with interest accrued thereon to the date fixed for redemption; provided that any payment of interest becoming due on or before the date fixed for redemption shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities registered as such on the relevant record date.
. Payment of Securities Called for Redemption.
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal shall, until paid or duly provided for, bear interest from the date fixed for redemption at the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security) borne by the Security.
Upon presentation of any Security redeemed in part only, the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to or on the order of the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Issuer, a new Security or Securities of such series, of authorized denominations, in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Security so presented.
Section 11.04Securities shall be excluded from eligibility for selection for redemption if they are identified by registration and certificate number in a written statement signed by an authorized officer of the Issuer and delivered to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the last date on which notice of redemption may be given as being owned of record and beneficially by, and not pledged or hypothecated by either (a) the Issuer or (b) an entity specifically identified in such written statement directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Issuer.
. Exclusion of Certain Securities from Eligibility for Selection for Redemption.
 
Section 12.01Subject to the provisions of this Article, the Guarantor hereby agrees as follows:
. Agreement to Guarantee.
(a) To guarantee to each Holder of a Security authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, jointly and severally with the Issuer and any other guarantor under the Indenture, fully and unconditionally, that:
(i) the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities, if any, if lawful (subject in all cases subject to any applicable grace period), and all other obligations of the Issuer to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and
(ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Securities or any of such other obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantor shall be obligated to pay the same immediately, jointly and severally with the Issuer and any other guarantor under the Indenture.
(b) The obligations hereunder shall be full and unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Securities or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Securities with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Issuer, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of the Guarantor. The Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Issuer, any right to require a proceeding first against the Issuer, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenants that this Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Securities, this Indenture and in the Guarantee.
(c) Subject to Section 12.03, this Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Securities and the Indenture, and the Guarantor accepts all obligations of a Guarantor under the Indenture.
(d) If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Issuer, the Guarantor or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Issuer or the Guarantor, any amount paid by either the Issuer or the Guarantor to the Trustee or such Holder, this Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect.
 
(e) The Guarantor shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. The Guarantor further agrees that the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 4 for the purposes of the Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and in the event of any acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 4, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantor for the purpose of such Guarantee.
(f) The Guarantor shall have the right to seek contribution from any other guarantor or the Issuer so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Guarantee.
(g) The Guarantor and, by its acceptance of Securities, each Holder hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such parties that the Guarantee not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of any bankruptcy law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to the Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Trustee, the Holders and the Guarantor hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of the Guarantor will, after giving effect to any maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities that are relevant under any applicable bankruptcy or fraudulent conveyance laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contributions from or payments made by or on behalf of any other guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other guarantor under the Indenture, this Guarantee shall be limited to the maximum amount permissible such that the obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee shall not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
(h) This Guarantee shall constitute senior indebtedness of the Guarantor, ranking equal with all unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Guarantor.
Section 12.02. . The execution by the Guarantor of the Indenture evidences the Guarantee, whether or not the person signing as an officer of the Guarantor still holds that office at the time of authentication of any Security. The delivery of any Security by the Trustee after authentication constitutes due delivery of the Guarantee set forth in the Indenture on behalf of the Guarantor. Neither the Issuer nor the Guarantor shall be required to make a notation on the Securities to reflect the Guarantee or the release, termination or discharge thereof.
Execution and Delivery of Guarantee
Section 12.03. . The Guarantor will be released of any obligations under this Guarantee, at the Issuer's option, (i) in connection with the sale or other disposition of all of the assets or capital stock of the Guarantor, provided that such sale or disposition complies with the applicable provisions of this Indenture, including, without limitation, Article 8, or (ii) if the Securities are discharged or defeased in accordance with Article 9. The Trustee shall deliver an instrument reasonably requested of it evidencing such release upon receipt of a request by the Issuer accompanied by an Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel certifying as to compliance with this Section 12.03.
Release of Guarantee
 
Section 12.04. . No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder or agent of the Guarantor shall have any liability for any obligations of the Issuer or the Guarantor under the Securities, the Guarantee or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Securities by accepting a Security waives and releases all such liability.
No Recourse Against Others
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused the Indenture to be duly executed as of the date set forth above.
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
December 20, 2010
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
As Representatives of the several Initial Purchasers
c/o Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
388 Greenwich Street
New York, NY 10013
Ladies and Gentlemen:
SAIC, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the Initial Purchasers listed in Schedule I of the Purchase Agreement (as defined below) (the ""), for whom Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated are acting as representatives (the ""), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Purchase Agreement, dated December 13, 2010 (the ""), $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 4.450% Notes due 2020 (the "") and $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.950% Notes due 2040 (the "" and, together with the 2020 Notes, the ""). The Notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Science Applications International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its guarantee (the ""). The Notes and the Guarantee are herein collectively referred to as the "". Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Purchase Agreement.
Issuer
Initial Purchasers
Representatives
Purchase Agreement
2020 Notes
2040 Notes
Notes
Guarantor
Guarantee
Securities
As an inducement to the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement and in satisfaction of a condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers thereunder, each of the Issuer and the Guarantor agree with the Initial Purchasers, for the benefit of the holders (including the Initial Purchasers) of the Securities, the Exchange Securities (as defined herein) and the Private Exchange Securities (as defined herein) (collectively, the ""), as follows:
Holders
1. . The Issuer and the Guarantor shall (i) prepare and file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement or, at the election of the Issuer and the Guarantor in their sole discretion, separate registration statements for (x) the 2020 Notes that constitute Transfer-Restricted Securities (as defined below) and (y) the 2040 Notes that constitute Transfer-Restricted Securities (each, an "") on an appropriate form under the Act with respect to a proposed offer to the Holders of the Transfer-Restricted Securities of each series (the "
Registered Exchange Offers
Commission
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
Registered
 
") to issue and deliver to Holders of the Transfer-Restricted Securities of the applicable series, in exchange for their Transfer-Restricted Securities, a like aggregate principal amount of debt securities of the Issuer (the "") that are similarly guaranteed by the Guarantor and are identical in all material respects to the Transfer-Restricted Securities of the applicable series, except for provisions relating to additional interest and the transfer restrictions relating to the Transfer-Restricted Securities of such series, and use their reasonable best efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (A) to be filed with the Commission no later than 270 days after the date of original issuance of the Securities (the "") and (B) the Registered Exchange Offer to be consummated no later than 365 days after the Issue Date and (ii) keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective for not less than 20 business days (or longer, if required by applicable law) after the date on which notice of the Registered Exchange Offer is mailed to the Holders (such period being called the ""). The Exchange Securities will be issued under the Indenture.
Exchange Offer
Exchange Securities
Issue Date
Exchange Offer Registration Period
Upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Issuer shall promptly commence the Registered Exchange Offer, it being the objective of such Registered Exchange Offer to enable each Holder electing to exchange Transfer-Restricted Securities for the applicable Exchange Securities (assuming that such Holder (a) is not an affiliate of the Issuer and the Guarantor, (b) is not an Exchanging Dealer (as defined herein) not complying with the requirements of the next sentence, (c) is not an Initial Purchaser holding Securities that have, or that are reasonably likely to have, the status of an unsold allotment in an initial distribution, (d) acquires the Exchange Securities in the ordinary course of such Holder's business and (e) has no arrangements or understandings with any person to participate in the distribution of the Exchange Securities) and to trade such Exchange Securities from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the Act. The Issuer, the Guarantor, the Initial Purchasers and each Exchanging Dealer acknowledge that, pursuant to current interpretations by the Commission's staff of Section 5 of the Act, each Holder that is a broker-dealer electing to exchange Securities, acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, for the applicable Exchange Securities (an ""), is required to deliver a prospectus containing substantially the information set forth in hereto on the cover, in hereto in the "Exchange Offer Procedures" section and the "Purpose of the Exchange Offer" section and in hereto in the "Plan of Distribution" section of such prospectus in connection with a sale of any such Exchange Securities received by such Exchanging Dealer pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer.
Exchanging Dealer
Annex A
Annex B
Annex C
If, prior to the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer, any Holder holds any Transfer-Restricted Securities acquired by it that have, or that are reasonably likely to be determined to have, the status of an unsold allotment in an initial distribution, or any Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities is not entitled to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer, the Issuer and the Guarantor shall, upon the request of any such Holder, simultaneously with the delivery of the Exchange Securities in the Registered Exchange Offer, issue and deliver to any such Holder, in exchange for the Transfer-Restricted Securities of the applicable series held by such Holder, a like aggregate principal amount of debt securities of the Issuer (the "") that are similarly guaranteed by the Guarantor and identical in all material respects to the Exchange Securities of the applicable series, except for provisions relating to additional interest and the transfer restrictions relating to such Private Exchange Securities (the ""). The Private Exchange Securities will be issued under the Indenture, and
Private Exchange Securities
Private Exchange
 
the Issuer and the Guarantor shall use their reasonable best efforts to cause the Private Exchange Securities to bear the same CUSIP number as the Exchange Securities of the applicable series to the extent permitted by law or Commission policy (in the opinion of counsel to the Issuer).
In connection with the Registered Exchange Offer, the Issuer and the Guarantor shall:
(a) mail to each Holder a copy of the prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
(b) keep the Registered Exchange Offer open for not less than 20 business days (or longer, if required by applicable law) after the date on which notice of the Registered Exchange Offer is mailed to the Holders;
(c) utilize the services of a depositary for the Registered Exchange Offer with an address in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York;
(d) permit Holders to withdraw tendered Securities at any time prior to the close of business, New York City time, on the last business day on which the Registered Exchange Offer shall remain open; and
(e) otherwise comply in all respects with all laws that are applicable to the Registered Exchange Offer.
As soon as practicable after the close of the Registered Exchange Offer and any Private Exchange, the Issuer and the Guarantor shall:
(f) accept for exchange all Transfer-Restricted Securities tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange;
(g) deliver to the Trustee for cancellation all Transfer-Restricted Securities so accepted for exchange; and
(h) cause the Trustee promptly to authenticate and deliver to each Holder, the applicable Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities, as the case may be, equal in principal amount and maturity to the Transfer-Restricted Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
The Issuer and the Guarantor shall use their reasonable best efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective and to amend and supplement the prospectus contained therein in order to permit such prospectus to be used by all persons subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the Act for such period of time as such persons must comply with such requirements in order to resell the Exchange Securities; provided, that (i) in the case where such prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto must be delivered by an Exchanging Dealer, such period shall be the lesser of 90 days and the date on which all Exchanging Dealers have sold all Exchange Securities held by them and (ii) the Issuer shall make such prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto available to any broker-dealer for use in connection with any resale of any Exchange Securities for a period of not less than 90 days after the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer.
 
Interest on each Exchange Security and Private Exchange Security issued pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer and in the Private Exchange will accrue from the last interest payment date on which interest was paid on the Securities surrendered in exchange therefor or, if no interest has been paid on the Securities, from the Issue Date.
Each Holder participating in the Registered Exchange Offer shall be required to represent to the Issuer that at the time of the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer (i) any Exchange Securities received by such Holder will be acquired in the ordinary course of business, (ii) such Holder will have no arrangements or understanding with any person to participate in the distribution of the Securities or the Exchange Securities within the meaning of the Act and (iii) such Holder is not an affiliate of the Issuer or the Guarantor or, if it is such an affiliate, such Holder will comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Act to the extent applicable.
2. . If (i) because of any change in law or applicable interpretations thereof by the Commission's staff the Issuer and the Guarantor is not permitted to effect the Registered Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 1 hereof, or (ii) for any other reason the Registered Exchange Offer is not consummated within 365 days after the Issue Date, or (iii) any Initial Purchaser so requests within 90 days after consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer with respect to Transfer-Restricted Securities or Private Exchange Securities not eligible to be exchanged for the applicable Exchange Securities in the Registered Exchange Offer and held by it following the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer, or (iv) any applicable law or interpretations do not permit any Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer, or (v) any Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities that participates in the Registered Exchange Offer does not receive freely transferable Exchange Securities in exchange for tendered Transfer-Restricted Securities, or (vi) any Transfer-Restricted Securities validly tendered pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer are not exchanged for the applicable Exchange Securities promptly after being accepted for exchange:
Shelf Registration
(a) The Issuer and the Guarantor shall use their reasonable best efforts to prepare and file, if as required or requested pursuant to this Section 2, with the Commission and shall use their reasonable best efforts to cause to be declared effective no later than the later of (x) 365 days after the Issue Date and (y) 90 days after so required or requested pursuant to this Section 2, a shelf registration statement on an appropriate form under the Act relating to the offer and sale of the Transfer-Restricted Securities by the Holders thereof from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution set forth in such registration statement (hereafter, a "" and, together with any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, a "").
Shelf Registration Statement
Registration Statement
(b) The Issuer and the Guarantor shall use their reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective in order to permit the prospectus forming a part thereof to be used by Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities for a period of (i) six months from the first day that the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective or (ii) such shorter period that will terminate upon the earlier to occur of (x) all of the Transfer-Restricted Securities
 
covered by such Shelf Registration Statement having been sold pursuant thereto or (y) all of such Securities ceasing to be Transfer-Restricted Securities (the period from the effective date of such Shelf Registration Statement until the earlier of the events described in clauses (i) and (ii) above, the "").
Shelf Registration Period
(c) In the absence of events described in clauses (i) through (vi) of the first paragraph of this Section 2, the Issuer and the Guarantor shall not be permitted to discharge their obligations under Section 1 hereof by means of the filing of a Shelf Registration Statement.
(d) The Issuer will have the ability to suspend the Shelf Registration Statement, as limited below (a ""), if the Issuer determines, in its reasonable judgment, that the continued effectiveness and/or use of the Shelf Registration Statement would require the disclosure of confidential information or interfere with any financing, acquisition, reorganization or other material transaction involving the Issuer. A Suspension Period shall commence on and include the date that the Issuer gives written notice to all Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities that the Shelf Registration Statement is no longer effective or the prospectus included therein is no longer usable for offers and sales of Transfer-Restricted Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement and continue until holders of such Transfer-Restricted Securities (as defined below) either receive the copies of the supplemented or amended prospectus contemplated by Section 4(j) hereof or receive an Advice (as defined below) that use of the prospectus may be resumed. No Suspension Period shall be for more than 30 consecutive days and any such Suspension Periods may not exceed 60 days in the aggregate during any twelve month period.
Suspension Period
3. .
Additional Interest
(a) The parties hereto agree that the Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities will suffer damages if the Issuer and the Guarantor fail to fulfill their obligations under Section 1 or Section 2, as applicable, and that it would not be feasible to ascertain the extent of such damages. Accordingly, if (i) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not filed with the Commission within 270 days after the Issue Date, (ii) if the Shelf Registration Statement is required pursuant to Section 2 hereof but is not declared effective within 365 days after the Issue Date (or such later date as required by Section 2(a)), (iii) the Registered Exchange Offer is not consummated on or prior to 365 days after the Issue Date, or (iv) the Shelf Registration Statement required pursuant to Section 2 hereof is filed and declared effective but shall thereafter cease to be effective (at any time that the Issuer is obligated to maintain the effectiveness thereof) without being succeeded within 30 days by an additional Registration Statement filed and declared effective (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (iv), an ""), the Issuer and the Guarantor will be jointly and severally obligated to pay additional interest ("") to each Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities, in an amount equal to 0.25% per annum on the principal amount of Transfer-Restricted Securities held by such Holder immediately following the occurrence of one or more such Additional Interest Triggers. In no event, however, shall the Issuer and the Guarantor be required to pay Additional Interest in excess of 0.25% per annum. Additional Interest shall cease to accrue and the interest rate will revert to the original rate when (w) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is filed with the Commission in the case of clause (i) above, (x) the applicable Registration Statement is declared effective in the case of clause (ii) above, (y) the Registered Exchange Offer is consummated in
Additional Interest Trigger
Additional Interest
 
the case of clause (iii) above, or (z) the Shelf Registration Statement again becomes effective in the case of clause (iv) above; , , that, if after any such reduction in interest rate, a different Additional Interest Trigger occurs, then the interest rate borne by the Transfer-Restricted Securities shall again be increased pursuant to the foregoing provisions. As used herein, the term "" means each Security until the earlier to occur of (i) the date on which such Security has been exchanged for a freely transferable applicable Exchange Security in the Registered Exchange Offer, (ii) the date on which it has been effectively registered under the Act and disposed of in accordance with the Shelf Registration Statement or (iii) the date on which it is distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Act. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 3(a), neither the Issuer nor the Guarantor shall be required to pay Additional Interest to a Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities if such Holder failed to comply with its obligations to make the representations set forth in the last paragraph of Section 1 or failed to provide the information required to be provided by it, if any, pursuant to Section 4(n).
provided
however
Transfer-Restricted Securities
(b) The Issuer and the Guarantor shall notify the Trustee and the Paying Agent under the Indenture promptly upon the happening of each and every Additional Interest Trigger. The Issuer and the Guarantor shall pay the Additional Interest due on the Transfer-Restricted Securities by depositing with the Paying Agent, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders thereof, prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the next interest payment date specified by the Indenture and the applicable Securities, sums sufficient to pay the Additional Interest then due. The Additional Interest due shall be payable on each interest payment date specified by the Indenture and the applicable Securities to the record holder entitled to receive the interest payment to be made on such date. Each obligation to pay Additional Interest shall be deemed to accrue from and include the date of the applicable Additional Interest Trigger to but excluding the date on which it is cured.
(c) The parties hereto agree that the Additional Interest provided for in this Section 3 constitutes a reasonable estimate of and is intended to constitute the sole damages that will be suffered by Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities by reason of the failure of (i) the Shelf Registration Statement or the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be filed or declared effective, (ii) the Shelf Registration Statement to remain effective or (iii) the Registered Exchange Offer to be consummated, in each case to the extent required by this Agreement. The existence of an Additional Interest Trigger shall not be deemed to be a breach of the provisions of this Agreement.
4. . In connection with any Registration Statement, the following provisions shall apply:
Registration Procedures
(a) The Issuer and the Guarantor shall (i) furnish to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, prior to the filing thereof with the Commission, a copy of the Registration Statement and each amendment thereof and each supplement, if any, to the prospectus included therein; (ii) include the information set forth in hereto on the cover, in hereto in the "Exchange Offer Procedures" section and the "Purpose of the Exchange Offer" section and in hereto in the "Plan of Distribution" section of the prospectus forming a part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, and include the information set forth in hereto in the Letter of Transmittal delivered pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer; and (iii) if requested by any Initial Purchaser, include the information required by Items 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, in the prospectus forming a part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
Annex A
Annex B
Annex C
Annex D
 
(b) The Issuer and the Guarantor shall advise counsel for the Initial Purchasers, each Exchanging Dealer and the Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities (in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement) and, if requested by any such person, confirm such advice in writing (which advice pursuant to clauses (ii)-(v) hereof shall be accompanied by an instruction to suspend the use of the prospectus until the requisite changes have been made):
(i) when any Registration Statement and any amendment thereto has been filed with the Commission and when such Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto has become effective;
(ii) of any request by the Commission for amendments or supplements to any Registration Statement or the prospectus included therein or for additional information;
(iii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of any Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose;
(iv) of the receipt, between the effective date of a Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Transfer-Restricted Securities covered thereby, by the Issuer or the Guarantor of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of any Transfer-Restricted Securities, the Exchange Securities or the Private Exchange Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; and
(v) of the happening of any event that requires the making of any changes in any Registration Statement or the prospectus included therein in order that the statements therein are not misleading and do not omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
(c) The Issuer and the Guarantor will make every reasonable best effort to obtain the withdrawal at the earliest possible time of any order suspending the effectiveness of any Registration Statement.
(d) The Issuer and the Guarantor will furnish to each Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities included within the coverage of any Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, at least one conformed copy of such Shelf Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules and, if any such Holder so requests in writing, all exhibits thereto (including those, if any, incorporated by reference).
(e) The Issuer and the Guarantor will, during the Shelf Registration Period, promptly deliver to each Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities included within the coverage of any Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, as many copies of the prospectus (including each preliminary prospectus) included in such Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Holder may reasonably request; and the Issuer and the Guarantor consent, subject to the limitations set forth herein, to the use of such prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities in connection with the offer and sale of the Transfer-Restricted Securities covered by such prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto.
 
(f) The Issuer and the Guarantor will furnish to each Initial Purchaser and each Exchanging Dealer, and to any other Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities who so requests, without charge, at least one conformed copy of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules and, if any Initial Purchaser or Exchanging Dealer or any such Holder so requests in writing, all exhibits thereto (including those, if any, incorporated by reference).
(g) The Issuer and the Guarantor will, during the Exchange Offer Registration Period or the Shelf Registration Period, as applicable, promptly deliver to each Initial Purchaser, each Exchanging Dealer and such other persons that have notified the Issuer that they are required to deliver a prospectus following the Registered Exchange Offer, without charge, as many copies of the final prospectus included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Initial Purchaser, Exchanging Dealer or other persons may reasonably request; and the Issuer and the Guarantor consent to the use of such prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by any such Initial Purchaser, Exchanging Dealer or other persons, as applicable, as aforesaid.
(h) Prior to the effective date of any Registration Statement, the Issuer and the Guarantor will use their reasonable best efforts to register or qualify, or cooperate with the Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities included therein and their respective counsel in connection with the registration or qualification of, such Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities for offer and sale under the securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as any such Holder reasonably requests in writing and do any and all other acts or things necessary or advisable to enable the offer and sale in such jurisdictions of the Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities covered by such Registration Statement; that, neither the Issuer nor the Guarantor will be required to qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified or to take any action which would subject it to general service of process or to taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
provided
(i) The Issuer and the Guarantor will cooperate with the Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities to be sold pursuant to any Registration Statement free of any restrictive legends and in such denominations and registered in such names as the Holders thereof may request in writing at least one business day prior to the closing of any sales of Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement.
(j) If any event contemplated by Section 4(b)(ii) or (v) occurs during the period for which the Issuer and the Guarantor are required to maintain an effective Registration Statement, the Issuer and the Guarantor will, subject to Section 2(d), promptly prepare and file with the Commission a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or a supplement to the related prospectus or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to
 
purchasers of the Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities from a Holder, the prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(k) Not later than the effective date of the applicable Registration Statement, the Issuer and the Guarantor will provide a CUSIP number for the Transfer-Restricted Securities of each series, the Exchange Securities of each series and the Private Exchange Securities of each series (if any), as the case may be, and provide the applicable trustee with printed certificates for the Transfer-Restricted Securities of each series, the Exchange Securities of each series or the Private Exchange Securities of each series, as the case may be, in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company.
(l) The Issuer and the Guarantor will comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and will make generally available to its security holders as soon as practicable after the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement an earning statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act; provided that in no event shall such earning statement be delivered later than 45 days after the end of a 12-month period (or 90 days, if such period is a fiscal year) beginning with the first month of the Issuer's first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of the applicable Registration Statement, which statement shall cover such 12-month period.
(m) The Issuer and the Guarantor will cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act as required by applicable law in a timely manner.
(n) The Issuer and the Guarantor may require each Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities to be registered pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement to furnish to the Issuer such information concerning the Holder and the distribution of such Transfer-Restricted Securities as the Issuer and the Guarantor may from time to time reasonably require for inclusion in such Shelf Registration Statement, and the Issuer and the Guarantor may exclude from such registration the Transfer-Restricted Securities of any Holder that fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request.
(o) In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities to be registered pursuant thereto agrees by acquisition of such Transfer-Restricted Securities that, upon receipt of any notice from the Issuer or the Guarantor pursuant to Section 2(d) or Sections 4(b)(ii) through (v), such Holder will discontinue disposition of such Transfer-Restricted Securities until such Holder's receipt of copies of the supplemental or amended prospectus contemplated by Section 4(j) or until advised in writing (the "") by the Issuer or the Guarantor that the use of the applicable prospectus may be resumed. If the Issuer or the Guarantor shall give any notice under Section 2(d) or Sections 4(b)(ii) through (v) during the period that the Issuer and the Guarantor are required to maintain an effective Registration Statement (the ""), such Effectiveness Period shall be extended by the number of days during such period from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when each seller of Transfer-Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement shall have received (x) the copies of the supplemental or amended prospectus contemplated by Section 4(j) (if an amended or supplemental prospectus is required) or (y) the Advice (if no amended or supplemental prospectus is required).
Advice
Effectiveness Period
 
(p) In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Issuer and the Guarantor shall enter into such customary agreements (including, if requested, an underwriting agreement in customary form) and take all such other action, if any, as Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities and Private Exchange Securities being sold or the managing underwriters (if any) shall reasonably request in order to facilitate any disposition of Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement.
(q) In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Issuer and the Guarantor shall (i) make reasonably available for inspection by a representative of, and Special Counsel (as defined below) acting for, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities and Private Exchange Securities being sold and any underwriter participating in any disposition of Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, all relevant financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Issuer and the Issuer's subsidiaries to the same extent the Issuer and the Guarantor would customarily make such information available in the context of due diligence for an underwritten public offering and (ii) use its reasonable best efforts to have its officers, directors, employees, accountants and counsel supply all relevant information reasonably requested by such representative, Special Counsel or any such underwriter (an "") in connection with the preparation of such Shelf Registration Statement; provided that, such representative, Special Counsel or underwriter executes a customary confidentiality agreement.
Inspector
(r) In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Issuer and the Guarantor shall, if requested by Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities and Private Exchange Securities being sold, their Special Counsel or the managing underwriters (if any) in connection with such Shelf Registration Statement, use its reasonable best efforts to cause (i) its counsel to deliver an opinion relating to the Shelf Registration Statement and the Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities, as applicable, in customary form, (ii) its officers to execute and deliver all customary documents and certificates requested by Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities and Private Exchange Securities being sold, their Special Counsel or the managing underwriters (if any) and (iii) its independent public accountants to provide a comfort letter or letters in customary form, subject to receipt of appropriate documentation as contemplated, and only if permitted, by Statement of Auditing Standards No. 72.
5. . Each of the Issuer and the Guarantor will, jointly and severally, bear all expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations under Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4, and each of the Issuer and the Guarantor will, jointly and severally, reimburse the Initial Purchasers and the Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities for the reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm of attorneys chosen by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Transfer-Restricted Securities, the Exchange Securities and the Private Exchange Securities, as the case may be, to be sold pursuant to each Registration Statement (the "") acting for the Initial Purchasers or Holders in connection therewith. Holders shall bear all of their other costs, including any underwriting discounts, brokerage commissions or transfer taxes.
Registration Expenses
Special Counsel
 
6. .
Indemnification
(a) In connection with a Shelf Registration Statement or in connection with any prospectus delivery pursuant to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement by an Initial Purchaser or Exchanging Dealer, as applicable, each of the Issuer and the Guarantor, jointly and severally, will indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities (including, without limitation, any such Initial Purchaser or Exchanging Dealer), its affiliates, their respective officers, directors, employees, representatives and agents, and each person, if any, who controls such Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities within the meaning of the Act or the Exchange Act (collectively referred to for purposes of this Section 6 and Section 7 as a Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities) against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (""), joint or several, to which such Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities may become subject, insofar as such Losses (or actions in respect thereof including, without limitation, any loss or claim relating to purchases and sales of Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any prospectus forming part thereof or in any amendment or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse each Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities for any reasonable legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred; , , that the Issuer and the Guarantor shall not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such Losses arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in any Registration Statement or any prospectus forming part thereof or in any amendment or supplement thereto in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Issuer by any Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities or Initial Purchaser expressly for use therein.
Losses
provided
however
(b) In connection with a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities, Initial Purchaser or Exchanging Dealer will indemnify and hold harmless the Issuer and the Guarantor, each of the Issuer's and Guarantor's respective officers and directors and any person controlling either of the Issuer or the Guarantor within the meaning of the Act or the Exchange Act against any Losses to which such persons may become subject insofar as such Losses (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in a Shelf Registration Statement or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement or any prospectus forming part thereof or in any amendment or supplement thereto in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Issuer by such Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities, Initial Purchaser or Exchanging Dealer expressly for use therein;
 
and such Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities, Initial Purchaser or Exchanging Dealer will reimburse the Issuer and the Guarantor for any reasonable legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred; , , that no such Holder shall be liable for any indemnity claims hereunder in excess of the amount of net proceeds received by such Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities from the sale of Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement.
provided
however
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under such subsection, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party otherwise than under such subsection. In case any such action shall be brought against any indemnified party and it shall notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party shall be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it shall wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and, after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party shall not be liable to such indemnified party under such subsection for any legal expenses of other counsel or any other expenses, in each case subsequently incurred by such indemnified party, in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. No indemnifying party shall, without the written consent of the indemnified party, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action or claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified party is an actual or potential party to such action or claim) unless such settlement, compromise or judgment (i) includes an unconditional release of the indemnified party in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party from all liability arising out of such action or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
(d) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 6 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above in respect of any Losses (or actions in respect thereof) referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such Losses (or actions in respect thereof) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Issuer and the Guarantor from the offering and sale of the Securities, on the one hand, and the Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities, on the other hand, with respect to the sale by such Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities. If, however, the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is not permitted by applicable law or if the indemnified party failed to give the notice required under subsection (c) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to such amount paid or payable by such indemnified party in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Issuer and the Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities, on the other hand, in connection with the
 
statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses (or actions in respect thereof), as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Issuer and the Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities, on the other hand, shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities (before deducting expenses) received by or on behalf of the Issuer and the Guarantor, on the one hand, bear to the total proceeds received by such Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities with respect to its sale of Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities, on the other. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Issuer or the Guarantor, on the one hand, or the Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Issuer, the Gurantor and the Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities agree that it would not be just and equitable if contributions pursuant to this subsection (d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this subsection (d). The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the Losses (or actions in respect thereof) referred to above in this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), an indemnifying party that is a Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities shall not be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities sold by such indemnifying party to any purchaser exceeds the amount of any damages which such indemnifying party has otherwise paid or become liable to pay by reason of any untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
(e) The obligations of the Issuer and the Guarantor under this Section 6 shall be in addition to any liability which the Issuer and the Guarantor may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each person, if any, who controls any Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities within the meaning of the Act; and the obligations of the Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities under this Section 6 shall be in addition to any liability which the respective Holders of Transfer-Restricted Securities may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each officer and director of the Issuer and the Guarantor and to each person, if any, who controls the Issuer or the Guarantor within the meaning of the Act.
7. . The Issuer and the Guarantor shall, upon the request of any Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities, make available such information as is required so long as necessary to permit sales of such Holder's securities pursuant to Rule 144A. Upon the written request of any Holder of Transfer-Restricted Securities, the Issuer and the Guarantor shall deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether they have complied with such requirements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 8 shall be deemed to require the Issuer or the Guarantor to register any of their securities pursuant to the Exchange Act, or file reports thereunder, except as may be required by law.
Rules 144 and 144A
 
8. . If any of the Transfer-Restricted Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that will administer the offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of such Transfer-Restricted Securities included in such offering, subject to the consent of the Issuer (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), and such Holders shall be responsible for all underwriting commissions and discounts in connection therewith.
Underwritten Registrations
No person may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder unless such person (i) agrees to sell such person's Transfer-Restricted Securities on the basis reasonably provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (ii) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
9. .
Miscellaneous
(a) Amendments and Waivers. In the case of the 2020 Notes, the provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, in any case as to the 2020 Notes, the Exchange Securities of such series or the Private Exchange Securities of such series, unless the Issuer and the Guarantor have obtained the written consent of Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the 2020 Notes, the Exchange Securities of such series and the Private Exchange Securities of such series that constitute Transfer-Restricted Securities affected, taken as a single class. In the case of the 2040 Notes, the provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, in any case as to the 2040 Notes, the Exchange Securities of such series or the Private Exchange Securities of such series, unless the Issuer and the Guarantor have obtained the written consent of Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the 2040 Notes, the Exchange Securities of such series and the Private Exchange Securities of such series that constitute Transfer-Restricted Securities affected, taken as a single class. In addition, a waiver or consent to depart from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose Transfer-Restricted Securities, Exchange Securities or Private Exchange Securities are being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders may be given by Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Transfer-Restricted Securities, the Exchange Securities and the Private Exchange Securities being sold by such Holders pursuant to such Registration Statement.
(b) Notices. All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, telecopier, facsimile or air courier guaranteeing next-day delivery:
(1) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Issuer in accordance with the provisions of this Section 9(b), which address initially is, with respect to each Holder, the address of such Holder maintained by the Registrar under the Indenture, with a copy in like manner to the Initial Purchasers;
 
(2) if to an Initial Purchaser, initially at, for Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 388 Greenwich St., New York, NY 10013 (facsimile no. 212-816-7912), Attention: General Counsel; for Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, One Bryant Park, NY1-100-18-03, New York, NY 10036 (facsimile no. 212-901-7881), Atttention: High Grade Transaction Management/Legal; and for Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 (facsimile no. 212-761-0538), Attention: Global Capital Markets Syndicate Desk; and
(3) if to the Issuer or the Guarantor, c/o SAIC, Inc., 1710 SAIC Drive, McLean, Virginia 22102 (facsimile no. 703-448-7732), Attention: Legal Department, with a copy to SAIC, Inc., 10210 Campus Point Drive, San Diego, California 92121 (facsimile no. 858-826-6884), Attention: Treasurer.
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: when delivered by hand, if personally delivered; one business day after being delivered to a next-day air courier; five business days after being deposited in the mail; and when receipt is acknowledged by the recipient's telecopier or facsimile machine, if sent by telecopier or facsimile.
(c) Successors And Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon the Issuer, the Guarantor and their respective successors and assigns.
(d) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts (which may be delivered in original form or by telecopier) and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
(e) Definition of Terms. For purposes of this Agreement, (a) the term "" means any day on which the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. is open for trading, (b) the term "" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Act and (c) except where otherwise expressly provided, the term "" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Act.
business day
subsidiary
affiliate
(f) Headings. The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
(g) Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
(h) Remedies. In the event of a breach by the Issuer, the Guarantor or by any Holder of any of their respective obligations under this Agreement, each Holder, the Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may be, in addition to being entitled to exercise all rights granted by law, including recovery of damages (other than the recovery of damages for a breach by the Issuer and the Guarantor of their obligations under Sections 1 or 2 hereof for which Additional Interest has been paid pursuant to Section 3 hereof), will be entitled, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to specific performance of its rights under this Agreement. The Issuer, the Guarantor and
 
each Holder agree that monetary damages would not be adequate compensation for any loss incurred by reason of a breach by it of any of the provisions of this Agreement and hereby further agree that, in the event of any action for specific performance in respect of such breach, it shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, waive the defense that a remedy at law would be adequate.
(i) No Inconsistent Agreements. Each of the Issuer and the Guarantor represents, warrants and agrees that (i) it has not entered into, and shall not, on or after the date of this Agreement, enter into any agreement that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof, (ii) it has not previously entered into any agreement which remains in effect granting any registration rights with respect to any of its debt securities to any person and (iii) without limiting the generality of the foregoing, without the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Transfer-Restricted Securities, it shall not grant to any person the right to request the Issuer or the Guarantor to register any debt securities of the Issuer or the Guarantor under the Act unless the rights so granted are not in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement.
(j) Severability. The remedies provided herein are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions set forth herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated, and the parties hereto shall use their reasonable best efforts to find and employ an alternative means to achieve the same or substantially the same result as that contemplated by such term, provision, covenant or restriction. It is hereby stipulated and declared to be the intention of the parties that they would have executed the remaining terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions without including any of such that may be hereafter declared invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable.
 
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the agreement among the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Initial Purchasers.
 
 
ANNEX A
Each broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities. The Letter of Transmittal states that by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, a broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act. This Prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a broker-dealer in connection with resales of Exchange Securities received in exchange for Securities where such Securities were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. The Issuer and the Guarantor have agreed that, for a period of 90 days after the Expiration Date (as defined herein), they will make this Prospectus available to any broker-dealer for use in connection with any such resale. See "Plan of Distribution."
 
ANNEX B
Each broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Securities, where such Securities were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities. See "Plan of Distribution."
 
ANNEX C
Each broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities. This Prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a broker-dealer in connection with resales of Exchange Securities received in exchange for Securities where such Securities were acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. The Issuer and the Guarantor have agreed that, for a period of 90 days after the Expiration Date, they will make this prospectus, as amended or supplemented, available to any broker-dealer for use in connection with any such resale. In addition, until , all dealers effecting transactions in the Exchange Securities may be required to deliver a prospectus.
                    
The Issuer and the Guarantor will not receive any proceeds from any sale of Exchange Securities by broker-dealers. Exchange Securities received by broker-dealers for their own account pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer may be sold from time to time in one or more transactions in the over-the-counter market, in negotiated transactions, through the writing of options on the Exchange Securities or a combination of such methods of resale, at market prices prevailing at the time of resale, at prices related to such prevailing market prices or at negotiated prices. Any such resale may be made directly to purchasers or to or through brokers or dealers who may receive compensation in the form of commissions or concessions from any such broker-dealer or the purchasers of any such Exchange Securities. Any broker-dealer that resells Exchange Securities that were received by it for its own account pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer and any broker or dealer that participates in a distribution of such Exchange Securities may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act and any profit on any such resale of Exchange Securities and any commission or concessions received by any such persons may be deemed to be underwriting compensation under the Act. The Letter of Transmittal states that, by acknowledging that it will deliver and by delivering a prospectus, a broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act.
For a period of 90 days after the Expiration Date the Issuer and the Guarantor will promptly send additional copies of this Prospectus and any amendment or supplement to this Prospectus to any broker-dealer that requests such documents in the Letter of Transmittal. The Issuer and the Guarantor have agreed to pay all expenses incident to the Registered Exchange Offer (including the expenses of one counsel for the Holders of the Securities) other than commissions or concessions of any broker-dealers and will indemnify the Holders of the Securities (including any broker-dealers) against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Act.
 
ANNEX D
CHECK HERE IF YOU ARE A BROKER-DEALER AND WISH TO RECEIVE 10 ADDITIONAL COPIES OF THE PROSPECTUS AND 10 COPIES OF ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS THERETO.
Name:
Address:
If the undersigned is not a broker-dealer, the undersigned represents that it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, a distribution of Exchange Securities. If the undersigned is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, it acknowledges that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities; however, by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, the undersigned will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act.
 

Exhibit 10.1
UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN.
TRANSFERS OF THIS NOTE ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TRANSFER PROVISIONS OF THE INDENTURE.
THE HOLDER OF THIS NOTE BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF IS DEEMED TO HAVE AGREED TO BE BOUND BY THE PROVISIONS OF A REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT AMONG SAIC, INC. (THE "ISSUER"), SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION (THE "GUARANTOR") AND THE INITIAL PURCHASERS, DATED DECEMBER 20, 2010 (THE "REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT"). THE ISSUER WILL PROVIDE A COPY OF THE REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT TO A HOLDER WITHOUT CHARGE UPON WRITTEN REQUEST TO IT AT ITS PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS.
THIS NOTE AND RELATED GUARANTEE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS NOTE, THE RELATED GUARANTEE NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS NOTE, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED NOTES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH NOTE ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER OR ANY SUBSIDIARY OF THE ISSUER, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE NOTES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION COMPLYING WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE ISSUER'S, THE GUARANTOR'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D) OR (E) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM IN THE FORMS OF EXHIBITS TO THE INDENTURE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
 
SAIC, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), for value received promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns the principal sum of FOUR HUNDRED FORTY-NINE MILLION DOLLARS on December 1, 2020.
Issuer
Interest Payment Dates: June 1 and December 1 (each, an ""), commencing on June 1, 2011.
Interest Payment Date
Interest Record Dates: May 15 and November 15 (each, an "").
Interest Record Date
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note contained herein, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officer.
 
 
This is one of the Notes of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: December 20, 2010
 
 
 
SAIC, Inc. (the "") promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum described above. Cash interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid; or, if no interest has been paid, from December 20, 2010. Interest on this Note will be paid to but excluding the relevant Interest Payment Date. The Issuer will pay interest semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing June 1, 2011. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months in a manner consistent with Rule 11620(b) of the NASD Uniform Practice Code.
Issuer
The Issuer shall pay interest on overdue principal from time to time on demand at the rate borne by the Notes and on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) to the extent lawful.
 
Initially, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "") will act as paying agent. The Issuer may change any paying agent without notice to the Holders.
Trustee
 
This Note is one of the 4.450% Notes due 2020 (the "") issued under an indenture dated as of December 20, 2010 (the "") by and between the Issuer, Science Applications International Corporation (the "") and the Trustee, and established pursuant to an Officer's Certificate dated December 20, 2010, issued pursuant to Section 2.01 and Section 2.03 thereof (together, the ""). This Note is a "Security" and the Notes are "Securities" under the Indenture.
Notes
Base Indenture
Guarantor
Indenture
For purposes of this Note, unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms herein are used as defined in the Indenture. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. Sections 77aaa-77bbbb) (the "") as in effect on the date on which the Indenture was qualified under the TIA. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders of Notes are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of them. To the extent the terms of the Indenture and this Note are inconsistent, the terms of the Indenture shall govern.
TIA
 
 
The Guarantor has irrevocably, fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on an unsecured and unsubordinated basis, the full and punctual payment (whether at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise) of the principal of and interest on, and all other amounts payable under, the Notes and the full and punctual payment of all other amounts payable by the Issuer under the Indenture and any other obligations of the Issuer under the Indenture, subject to certain terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture.
 
The Notes are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $2,000 and multiples of $1,000 thereafter. A Holder shall register the transfer or exchange of Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Issuer may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay certain transfer taxes or similar governmental charges payable in connection therewith as permitted by the Indenture. The Issuer need not issue, authenticate, register the transfer of or exchange any Notes or portions thereof for a period of fifteen (15) days before the mailing of a notice of redemption, nor need the Issuer register the transfer or exchange of any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part.
 
The Holder of this Note is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated December 20, 2010, between the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Initial Purchasers named therein (the ""). The interest rate on this Note will increase by a rate of 0.25% per annum upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the Registration Rights Agreement for the periods specified therein.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
Subject to certain exceptions, the Notes and the provisions of the Indenture relating to the Notes may be amended or supplemented and any existing default or Event of Default or compliance with certain provisions may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series (including the Notes) under the Indenture that are affected by such amendment, supplement or waiver (voting together as a single class). Without notice to or consent of any Holder, the parties thereto may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or comply with any requirements of the Commission in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA, or make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder of a Note in any material respect.
 
 
The Issuer may at its option redeem any of the Notes in whole or in part at any time, each at a redemption price calculated by the Issuer equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
(ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest, including additional interest, if any, as provided under Section 6, thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 20 basis points,
plus, in each case, accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on Notes that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Interest Record Date according to the Notes and the Indenture.
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Quotation Agent obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Issuer.
Quotation Agent
"" means (i) Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Issuer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided, however
Primary Treasury Dealer
 
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Quotation Agent, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Quotation Agent by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed. Unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by lot by the Depositary, in the case of Notes represented by a Global Note, or by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate, in the case of Notes that are not represented by a Global Note.
In addition, beginning 90 days prior to December 1, 2020, the Issuer will have the right to redeem the Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such Notes being redeemed, plus accrued interest thereon. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on Notes that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to the redemption date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Interest Record Date according to the Notes and the Indenture. Notice of any such redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed. Unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
 
If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Issuer shall have exercised its right to redeem the Notes as described above, the Issuer shall be required to make an offer to each Holder of Notes to purchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date); provided that after giving effect to the purchase, any Notes that remain outstanding shall have a denomination of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount.
 
Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred or, at the Issuer's option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after the public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, except to the extent that the Issuer shall have exercised its right to redeem the Notes pursuant to Section 8 hereof, the Issuer shall mail a notice (a "") to each Holder with a copy to the Trustee describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute a Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to purchase Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (other than as may be required by law) (such date, the ""). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control being consummated on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date specified in the notice.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment Date
On each Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer shall, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
The Trustee shall promptly mail, or cause the paying agent to promptly mail, to each Holder of Notes so tendered the payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any.
The Issuer shall comply, to the extent applicable, with the requirements of Rule 14(e)-1 of the Exchange Act and any other securities laws or regulations in connection with the purchase of Notes pursuant to a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the terms described in the Notes, the Issuer shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations by virtue thereof.
 
Holders of Notes electing to have Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender their Notes, with the form entitled "Repurchase Exercise Notice Upon a Change of Control" on the reverse of the Note completed, to the paying agent at the address specified in the notice, or transfer their Notes to the paying agent by book-entry transfer pursuant to the applicable procedures of the paying agent, prior to the close of business on the third business day prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
The Issuer shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Issuer and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
In addition, the Issuer shall not purchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the change of control payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
If Holders of not less than 95% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes validly tender and do not withdraw such Notes in a Change of Control Offer and the Issuer, or any third party making a Change of Control Offer in lieu of the Issuer, as described above, purchases all of the Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn by such Holders, the Issuer shall have the right, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, given not more than 30 days following such purchase pursuant to the Change of Control Offer described above, to redeem all Notes that remain outstanding following such purchase at a redemption price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption (subject to the right of Holders of record on an Interest Record Date to receive interest on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following definitions are applicable:
"" means the occurrence of any one of the following:
Change of Control
(a) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Issuer's assets and the assets of the Issuer's subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Issuer or one of its subsidiaries;
(b) the consummation of any transaction (including without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of our outstanding Voting Stock, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; or
 
(c) the adoption of a plan relating to the Issuer's liquidation or dissolution.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be considered to be a Change of Control if (a) the Issuer becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (b) immediately following that transaction, (1) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuer's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (2) no person or group is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the total voting power of the Voting Stock of the holding company.
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Ratings Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's); a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P); and the equivalent investment grade rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Agencies appointed by the Issuer.
Investment Grade
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
Moody's
"" means each of Moody's and S&P; provided, that if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available, the Issuer shall appoint a replacement for such Rating Agency that is a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act.
Rating Agency
"" means the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any day during the period (the "") commencing on the date 60 days prior to the first public announcement by the Issuer of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended for so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies).
Ratings Event
Trigger Period
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
"" of any specified person as of any date means the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
 
If an Event of Default (other than certain bankruptcy Events of Default with respect to the Issuer, the Guarantor or any material subsidiary of the Issuer) under the Indenture occurs with respect to the Notes and is continuing, then the Trustee may and, at the direction of the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class), shall by written notice, require the Issuer to repay immediately the entire principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected, together with all accrued and unpaid interest and premium, if any. If a bankruptcy Event of Default with respect to the Issuer, the Guarantor or any material subsidiary of the Issuer occurs and is continuing, then the entire principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities (including the Notes) will automatically become due immediately and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Holders of Notes may not enforce the Indenture, the Notes or related Guarantees except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee is not obligated to enforce the Indenture, the Notes or related Guarantees unless it has received indemnity as it reasonably requires. The Indenture permits, subject to certain limitations therein provided, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class) to direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of Notes notice of certain continuing defaults or Events of Default if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest.
 
This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on this Note.
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder of a Note or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
 
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes as a convenience to the Holders of the Notes. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers as printed on the Notes and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed hereon.
 
 
The laws of the State of New York shall govern the Indenture, including the Guarantee, and this Note thereof.
 
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to
(Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code)
(Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax I.D. No.)
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Issuer. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                
 
 
Date: Your Signature:
                                        
                                        
 
 
 
Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Note.
In connection with any transfer of any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate occurring prior to the expiration of the period referred to in Rule 144(d) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") after the later of the date of original issuance of such Notes and the last date, if any, on which such Notes were owned by the Issuer or any "Affiliate" of the Issuer within the meaning of Rule 144 of the Securities Act , the undersigned confirms that such Notes are being transferred in accordance with its terms:
Securities Act
CHECK ONE BOX BELOW
 
 
 
Unless one of the boxes is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered holder thereof; , that if box (5), (6) or (7) is checked, the Trustee shall be entitled to require, prior to registering any such transfer of the Notes, such legal opinions, certifications and other information as the Issuer has reasonably requested to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act, such as the exemption provided by Rule 144 under such Act.
provided, however
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
STAMP
 
The undersigned represents and warrants that the requested transfer is being made (A) to a Person who the undersigned reasonably believes is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act (a ""), (B) to a Person who is purchasing for its own account or the account of a QIB in a transaction meeting the requirement of Rule 144A and (C) in accordance with all applicable securities laws of the states of the United States and other jurisdictions.
QIB
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for Physical Notes or a part of another Global Note have been made:
 
 
To: SAIC, Inc.
The undersigned registered owner of this Security hereby acknowledges receipt of a notice from SAIC, Inc. (the "") as to the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Issuer and hereby directs the Issuer to pay, or cause the Trustee to pay, an amount in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, or the portion thereof (which is a multiple of $1,000, provided that the remaining principal amount, if any, following such repurchase shall be at least $2,000 or a multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) below designated, to be repurchased plus interest accrued to, but excluding, the repurchase date, except as provided in the Indenture.
Issuer
            
Dated:                     
Signature
                                        
Principal amount to be repurchased (a multiple of $1,000):
                    
Remaining principal amount following such repurchase:
                    
(zero or at least $2,000 or a multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof)
 
 
UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN.
TRANSFERS OF THIS NOTE ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TRANSFER PROVISIONS OF THE INDENTURE.
UNTIL 40 DAYS AFTER THE CLOSING OF THE OFFERING, AN OFFER OR SALE OF SECURITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES BY A DEALER (AS DEFINED IN THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT) MAY VIOLATE THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT IF SUCH OFFER OR SALE IS MADE OTHERWISE THAN IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 144A THEREUNDER.
THE HOLDER OF THIS NOTE BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF IS DEEMED TO HAVE AGREED TO BE BOUND BY THE PROVISIONS OF A REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT AMONG SAIC, INC. (THE "ISSUER"), SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION (THE "GUARANTOR") AND THE INITIAL PURCHASERS, DATED DECEMBER 20, 2010 (THE "REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT"). THE ISSUER WILL PROVIDE A COPY OF THE REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT TO A HOLDER WITHOUT CHARGE UPON WRITTEN REQUEST TO IT AT ITS PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS.
 
THIS NOTE AND RELATED GUARANTEE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS NOTE, THE RELATED GUARANTEE NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS NOTE, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED NOTES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH NOTE ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER OR ANY SUBSIDIARY OF THE ISSUER, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE NOTES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION COMPLYING WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE ISSUER'S, THE GUARANTOR'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D) OR (E) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM IN THE FORMS OF EXHIBITS TO THE INDENTURE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
EXCEPT AS SET FORTH BELOW, BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP INTERESTS IN THIS TEMPORARY REGULATION S GLOBAL SECURITY WILL NOT BE EXCHANGEABLE FOR INTERESTS IN THE PERMANENT REGULATION S GLOBAL SECURITY OR ANY OTHER SECURITY REPRESENTING AN INTEREST IN THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY WHICH DO NOT CONTAIN A LEGEND CONTAINING RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER, UNTIL THE EXPIRATION OF THE "40-DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD" (WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 903(b)(2) OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) AND THEN ONLY UPON CERTIFICATION IN FORM REASONABLY SATISFACTORY TO THE TRUSTEE THAT SUCH BENEFICIAL INTERESTS ARE OWNED EITHER BY NON-U.S. PERSONS OR U.S. PERSONS WHO PURCHASED SUCH INTERESTS IN A TRANSACTION THAT DID NOT REQUIRE REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT. DURING SUCH 40-DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD, BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP INTERESTS IN THIS TEMPORARY REGULATION S GLOBAL SECURITY MAY ONLY BE SOLD, PLEDGED OR TRANSFERRED THROUGH EUROCLEAR BANK S.A./N.V., AS OPERATOR OF THE EUROCLEAR SYSTEM OR CLEARSTREAM BANKING, SOCIT ANONYME AND ONLY (I) TO THE ISSUER OR A SUBSIDIARY OF THE ISSUER, (II) WITHIN THE UNITED STATES TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (III) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN A TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (IV) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, IN EACH OF CASES (I) THROUGH (IV) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER JURISDICTIONS. HOLDERS OF INTERESTS IN THIS TEMPORARY REGULATION S GLOBAL SECURITY WILL NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS REFERRED TO ABOVE, IF THEN APPLICABLE.
 
 
SAIC, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), for value received promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns the principal sum of ONE MILLION DOLLARS on December 1, 2020.
Issuer
Interest Payment Dates: June 1 and December 1 (each, an ""), commencing on June 1, 2011.
Interest Payment Date
Interest Record Dates: May 15 and November 15 (each, an "").
Interest Record Date
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note contained herein, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officer.
 
 
This is one of the Notes of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: December 20, 2010
 
 
 
SAIC, Inc. (the "") promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum described above. Cash interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid; or, if no interest has been paid, from December 20, 2010. Interest on this Note will be paid to but excluding the relevant Interest Payment Date. The Issuer will pay interest semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing June 1, 2011. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months in a manner consistent with Rule 11620(b) of the NASD Uniform Practice Code.
Issuer
The Issuer shall pay interest on overdue principal from time to time on demand at the rate borne by the Notes and on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) to the extent lawful.
 
Initially, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "") will act as paying agent. The Issuer may change any paying agent without notice to the Holders.
Trustee
 
This Note is one of the 4.450% Notes due 2020 (the "") issued under an indenture dated as of December 20, 2010 (the "") by and between the Issuer, Science Applications International Corporation (the "") and the Trustee, and established pursuant to an Officer's Certificate dated December 20, 2010, issued pursuant to Section 2.01 and Section 2.03 thereof (together, the ""). This Note is a "Security" and the Notes are "Securities" under the Indenture.
Notes
Base Indenture
Guarantor
Indenture
For purposes of this Note, unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms herein are used as defined in the Indenture. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. Sections 77aaa-77bbbb) (the "") as in effect on the date on which the Indenture was qualified under the TIA. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders of Notes are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of them. To the extent the terms of the Indenture and this Note are inconsistent, the terms of the Indenture shall govern.
TIA
 
 
The Guarantor has irrevocably, fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on an unsecured and unsubordinated basis, the full and punctual payment (whether at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise) of the principal of and interest on, and all other amounts payable under, the Notes and the full and punctual payment of all other amounts payable by the Issuer under the Indenture and any other obligations of the Issuer under the Indenture, subject to certain terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture.
 
The Notes are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $2,000 and multiples of $1,000 thereafter. A Holder shall register the transfer or exchange of Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Issuer may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay certain transfer taxes or similar governmental charges payable in connection therewith as permitted by the Indenture. The Issuer need not issue, authenticate, register the transfer of or exchange any Notes or portions thereof for a period of fifteen (15) days before the mailing of a notice of redemption, nor need the Issuer register the transfer or exchange of any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part.
 
The Holder of this Note is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated December 20, 2010, between the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Initial Purchasers named therein (the ""). The interest rate on this Note will increase by a rate of 0.25% per annum upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the Registration Rights Agreement for the periods specified therein.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
Subject to certain exceptions, the Notes and the provisions of the Indenture relating to the Notes may be amended or supplemented and any existing default or Event of Default or compliance with certain provisions may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series (including the Notes) under the Indenture that are affected by such amendment, supplement or waiver (voting together as a single class). Without notice to or consent of any Holder, the parties thereto may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or comply with any requirements of the Commission in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA, or make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder of a Note in any material respect.
 
 
The Issuer may at its option redeem any of the Notes in whole or in part at any time, each at a redemption price calculated by the Issuer equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
(ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest, including additional interest, if any, as provided under Section 6, thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 20 basis points,
plus, in each case, accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on Notes that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Interest Record Date according to the Notes and the Indenture.
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Quotation Agent obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Issuer.
Quotation Agent
"" means (i) Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Issuer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided, however
Primary Treasury Dealer
 
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Quotation Agent, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Quotation Agent by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed. Unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by lot by the Depositary, in the case of Notes represented by a Global Note, or by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate, in the case of Notes that are not represented by a Global Note.
In addition, beginning 90 days prior to December 1, 2020, the Issuer will have the right to redeem the Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such Notes being redeemed, plus accrued interest thereon. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on Notes that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to the redemption date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Interest Record Date according to the Notes and the Indenture. Notice of any such redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed. Unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
 
If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Issuer shall have exercised its right to redeem the Notes as described above, the Issuer shall be required to make an offer to each Holder of Notes to purchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date); provided that after giving effect to the purchase, any Notes that remain outstanding shall have a denomination of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount.
 
Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred or, at the Issuer's option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after the public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, except to the extent that the Issuer shall have exercised its right to redeem the Notes pursuant to Section 8 hereof, the Issuer shall mail a notice (a "") to each Holder with a copy to the Trustee describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute a Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to purchase Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (other than as may be required by law) (such date, the ""). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control being consummated on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date specified in the notice.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment Date
On each Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer shall, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
The Trustee shall promptly mail, or cause the paying agent to promptly mail, to each Holder of Notes so tendered the payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any.
The Issuer shall comply, to the extent applicable, with the requirements of Rule 14(e)-1 of the Exchange Act and any other securities laws or regulations in connection with the purchase of Notes pursuant to a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the terms described in the Notes, the Issuer shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations by virtue thereof.
 
Holders of Notes electing to have Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender their Notes, with the form entitled "Repurchase Exercise Notice Upon a Change of Control" on the reverse of the Note completed, to the paying agent at the address specified in the notice, or transfer their Notes to the paying agent by book-entry transfer pursuant to the applicable procedures of the paying agent, prior to the close of business on the third business day prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
The Issuer shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Issuer and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
In addition, the Issuer shall not purchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the change of control payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
If Holders of not less than 95% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes validly tender and do not withdraw such Notes in a Change of Control Offer and the Issuer, or any third party making a Change of Control Offer in lieu of the Issuer, as described above, purchases all of the Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn by such Holders, the Issuer shall have the right, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, given not more than 30 days following such purchase pursuant to the Change of Control Offer described above, to redeem all Notes that remain outstanding following such purchase at a redemption price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption (subject to the right of Holders of record on an Interest Record Date to receive interest on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following definitions are applicable:
"" means the occurrence of any one of the following:
Change of Control
(a) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Issuer's assets and the assets of the Issuer's subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Issuer or one of its subsidiaries;
(b) the consummation of any transaction (including without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of our outstanding Voting Stock, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; or
 
(c) the adoption of a plan relating to the Issuer's liquidation or dissolution.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be considered to be a Change of Control if (a) the Issuer becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (b) immediately following that transaction, (1) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuer's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (2) no person or group is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the total voting power of the Voting Stock of the holding company.
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Ratings Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's); a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P); and the equivalent investment grade rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Agencies appointed by the Issuer.
Investment Grade
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
Moody's
"" means each of Moody's and S&P; provided, that if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available, the Issuer shall appoint a replacement for such Rating Agency that is a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act.
Rating Agency
"" means the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any day during the period (the "") commencing on the date 60 days prior to the first public announcement by the Issuer of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended for so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies).
Ratings Event
Trigger Period
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
"" of any specified person as of any date means the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
 
If an Event of Default (other than certain bankruptcy Events of Default with respect to the Issuer, the Guarantor or any material subsidiary of the Issuer) under the Indenture occurs with respect to the Notes and is continuing, then the Trustee may and, at the direction of the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class), shall by written notice, require the Issuer to repay immediately the entire principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected, together with all accrued and unpaid interest and premium, if any. If a bankruptcy Event of Default with respect to the Issuer, the Guarantor or any material subsidiary of the Issuer occurs and is continuing, then the entire principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities (including the Notes) will automatically become due immediately and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Holders of Notes may not enforce the Indenture, the Notes or related Guarantees except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee is not obligated to enforce the Indenture, the Notes or related Guarantees unless it has received indemnity as it reasonably requires. The Indenture permits, subject to certain limitations therein provided, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class) to direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of Notes notice of certain continuing defaults or Events of Default if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest.
 
This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on this Note.
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder of a Note or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
 
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes as a convenience to the Holders of the Notes. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers as printed on the Notes and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed hereon.
 
 
The laws of the State of New York shall govern the Indenture, including the Guarantee, and this Note thereof.
 
 
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to
(Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code)
(Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax I.D. No.)
and irrevocably appoint                                  agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Issuer. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
Date: Your Signature:
                                        
                                    
 
 
Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Note.
In connection with any transfer of any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate occurring prior to the expiration of the period referred to in Rule 144(d) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") after the later of the date of original issuance of such Notes and the last date, if any, on which such Notes were owned by the Issuer or any "Affiliate" of the Issuer within the meaning of Rule 144 of the Securities Act , the undersigned confirms that such Notes are being transferred in accordance with its terms:
Securities Act
CHECK ONE BOX BELOW
 
 
 
Unless one of the boxes is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered holder thereof; , that if box (5), (6) or (7) is checked, the Trustee shall be entitled to require, prior to registering any such transfer of the Notes, such legal opinions, certifications and other information as the Issuer has reasonably requested to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act, such as the exemption provided by Rule 144 under such Act.
provided, however
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
STAMP
 
The undersigned represents and warrants that the requested transfer is being made (A) to a Person who the undersigned reasonably believes is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act (a ""), (B) to a Person who is purchasing for its own account or the account of a QIB in a transaction meeting the requirement of Rule 144A and (C) in accordance with all applicable securities laws of the states of the United States and other jurisdictions.
QIB
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for Physical Notes or a part of another Global Note have been made:
 
 
To: SAIC, Inc.
The undersigned registered owner of this Security hereby acknowledges receipt of a notice from SAIC, Inc. (the "") as to the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Issuer and hereby directs the Issuer to pay, or cause the Trustee to pay, an amount in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, or the portion thereof (which is a multiple of $1,000, provided that the remaining principal amount, if any, following such repurchase shall be at least $2,000 or a multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) below designated, to be repurchased plus interest accrued to, but excluding, the repurchase date, except as provided in the Indenture.
Issuer
            
Dated:
                    
Signature
                                        
Principal amount to be repurchased (a multiple of $1,000):
                    
Remaining principal amount following such repurchase:
                    
(zero or at least $2,000 or a multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof)
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN.
TRANSFERS OF THIS NOTE ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TRANSFER PROVISIONS OF THE INDENTURE.
THE HOLDER OF THIS NOTE BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF IS DEEMED TO HAVE AGREED TO BE BOUND BY THE PROVISIONS OF A REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT AMONG SAIC, INC. (THE "ISSUER"), SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION (THE "GUARANTOR") AND THE INITIAL PURCHASERS, DATED DECEMBER 20, 2010 (THE "REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT"). THE ISSUER WILL PROVIDE A COPY OF THE REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT TO A HOLDER WITHOUT CHARGE UPON WRITTEN REQUEST TO IT AT ITS PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS.
THIS NOTE AND RELATED GUARANTEE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS NOTE, THE RELATED GUARANTEE NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS NOTE, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED NOTES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH NOTE ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER OR ANY SUBSIDIARY OF THE ISSUER, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE NOTES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION COMPLYING WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE ISSUER'S, THE GUARANTOR'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D) OR (E) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM IN THE FORMS OF EXHIBITS TO THE INDENTURE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
 
SAIC, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), for value received promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns the principal sum of TWO HUNDRED NINETY-NINE MILLION SEVEN HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS on December 1, 2040.
Issuer
Interest Payment Dates: June 1 and December 1 (each, an ""), commencing on June 1, 2011.
Interest Payment Date
Interest Record Dates: May 15 and November 15 (each, an "").
Interest Record Date
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note contained herein, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officer.
 
 
This is one of the Notes of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: December 20, 2010
 
 
1. Interest
SAIC, Inc. (the "") promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum described above. Cash interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid; or, if no interest has been paid, from December 20, 2010. Interest on this Note will be paid to but excluding the relevant Interest Payment Date. The Issuer will pay interest semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing June 1, 2011. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months in a manner consistent with Rule 11620(b) of the NASD Uniform Practice Code.
Issuer
The Issuer shall pay interest on overdue principal from time to time on demand at the rate borne by the Notes and on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) to the extent lawful.
2. Paying Agent.
Initially, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "") will act as paying agent. The Issuer may change any paying agent without notice to the Holders.
Trustee
3. Indenture; Defined Terms.
This Note is one of the 5.950% Notes due 2040 (the "") issued under an indenture dated as of December 20, 2010 (the "") by and between the Issuer, Science Applications International Corporation (the "") and the Trustee, and established pursuant to an Officer's Certificate dated December 20, 2010, issued pursuant to Section 2.01 and Section 2.03 thereof (together, the ""). This Note is a "Security" and the Notes are "Securities" under the Indenture.
Notes
Base Indenture
Guarantor
Indenture
For purposes of this Note, unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms herein are used as defined in the Indenture. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. Sections 77aaa-77bbbb) (the "") as in effect on the date on which the Indenture was qualified under the TIA. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders of Notes are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of them. To the extent the terms of the Indenture and this Note are inconsistent, the terms of the Indenture shall govern.
TIA
 
4. Guarantee.
The Guarantor has irrevocably, fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on an unsecured and unsubordinated basis, the full and punctual payment (whether at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise) of the principal of and interest on, and all other amounts payable under, the Notes and the full and punctual payment of all other amounts payable by the Issuer under the Indenture and any other obligations of the Issuer under the Indenture, subject to certain terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture.
5. Denominations; Transfer; Exchange.
The Notes are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $2,000 and multiples of $1,000 thereafter. A Holder shall register the transfer or exchange of Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Issuer may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay certain transfer taxes or similar governmental charges payable in connection therewith as permitted by the Indenture. The Issuer need not issue, authenticate, register the transfer of or exchange any Notes or portions thereof for a period of fifteen (15) days before the mailing of a notice of redemption, nor need the Issuer register the transfer or exchange of any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part.
6. Registration Rights
The Holder of this Note is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated December 20, 2010, between the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Initial Purchasers named therein (the ""). The interest rate on this Note will increase by a rate of 0.25% per annum upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the Registration Rights Agreement for the periods specified therein.
Registration Rights Agreement
7. Amendment; Supplement; Waiver.
Subject to certain exceptions, the Notes and the provisions of the Indenture relating to the Notes may be amended or supplemented and any existing default or Event of Default or compliance with certain provisions may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series (including the Notes) under the Indenture that are affected by such amendment, supplement or waiver (voting together as a single class). Without notice to or consent of any Holder, the parties thereto may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or comply with any requirements of the Commission in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA, or make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder of a Note in any material respect.
 
8. Redemption.
The Issuer may at its option redeem any of the Notes in whole or in part at any time, each at a redemption price calculated by the Issuer equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
(ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest, including additional interest, if any, as provided under Section 6, thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 25 basis points,
plus, in each case, accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on Notes that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Interest Record Date according to the Notes and the Indenture.
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Quotation Agent obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Issuer.
Quotation Agent
"" means (i) Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Issuer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided, however
Primary Treasury Dealer
 
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Quotation Agent, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Quotation Agent by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed. Unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by lot by the Depositary, in the case of Notes represented by a Global Note, or by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate, in the case of Notes that are not represented by a Global Note.
In addition, beginning 180 days prior to December 1, 2040, the Issuer will have the right to redeem the Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such Notes being redeemed, plus accrued interest thereon. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on Notes that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to the redemption date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Interest Record Date according to the Notes and the Indenture. Notice of any such redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed. Unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
9. Offer to Repurchase Upon Change of Control Triggering Event.
If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Issuer shall have exercised its right to redeem the Notes as described above, the Issuer shall be required to make an offer to each Holder of Notes to purchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date); provided that after giving effect to the purchase, any Notes that remain outstanding shall have a denomination of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount.
 
Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred or, at the Issuer's option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after the public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, except to the extent that the Issuer shall have exercised its right to redeem the Notes pursuant to Section 8 hereof, the Issuer shall mail a notice (a "") to each Holder with a copy to the Trustee describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute a Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to purchase Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (other than as may be required by law) (such date, the ""). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control being consummated on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date specified in the notice.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment Date
On each Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer shall, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
The Trustee shall promptly mail, or cause the paying agent to promptly mail, to each Holder of Notes so tendered the payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any.
The Issuer shall comply, to the extent applicable, with the requirements of Rule 14(e)-1 of the Exchange Act and any other securities laws or regulations in connection with the purchase of Notes pursuant to a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the terms described in the Notes, the Issuer shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations by virtue thereof.
 
Holders of Notes electing to have Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender their Notes, with the form entitled "Repurchase Exercise Notice Upon a Change of Control" on the reverse of the Note completed, to the paying agent at the address specified in the notice, or transfer their Notes to the paying agent by book-entry transfer pursuant to the applicable procedures of the paying agent, prior to the close of business on the third business day prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
The Issuer shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Issuer and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
In addition, the Issuer shall not purchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the change of control payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
If Holders of not less than 95% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes validly tender and do not withdraw such Notes in a Change of Control Offer and the Issuer, or any third party making a Change of Control Offer in lieu of the Issuer, as described above, purchases all of the Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn by such Holders, the Issuer shall have the right, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, given not more than 30 days following such purchase pursuant to the Change of Control Offer described above, to redeem all Notes that remain outstanding following such purchase at a redemption price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption (subject to the right of Holders of record on an Interest Record Date to receive interest on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following definitions are applicable:
"" means the occurrence of any one of the following:
Change of Control
(a) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Issuer's assets and the assets of the Issuer's subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Issuer or one of its subsidiaries;
(b) the consummation of any transaction (including without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of our outstanding Voting Stock, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; or
 
(c) the adoption of a plan relating to the Issuer's liquidation or dissolution.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be considered to be a Change of Control if (a) the Issuer becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (b) immediately following that transaction, (1) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuer's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (2) no person or group is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the total voting power of the Voting Stock of the holding company.
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Ratings Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's); a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P); and the equivalent investment grade rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Agencies appointed by the Issuer.
Investment Grade
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
Moody's
"" means each of Moody's and S&P; provided, that if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available, the Issuer shall appoint a replacement for such Rating Agency that is a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act.
Rating Agency
"" means the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any day during the period (the "") commencing on the date 60 days prior to the first public announcement by the Issuer of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended for so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies).
Ratings Event
Trigger Period
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
"" of any specified person as of any date means the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
10. Defaults and Remedies.
If an Event of Default (other than certain bankruptcy Events of Default with respect to the Issuer, the Guarantor or any material subsidiary of the Issuer) under the Indenture occurs with respect to the Notes and is continuing, then the Trustee may and, at the direction of the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class), shall by written notice, require the Issuer to repay immediately the entire principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected, together with all accrued and unpaid interest and premium, if any. If a bankruptcy Event of Default with respect to the Issuer, the Guarantor or any material subsidiary of the Issuer occurs and is continuing, then the entire principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities (including the Notes) will automatically become due immediately and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Holders of Notes may not enforce the Indenture, the Notes or related Guarantees except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee is not obligated to enforce the Indenture, the Notes or related Guarantees unless it has received indemnity as it reasonably requires. The Indenture permits, subject to certain limitations therein provided, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class) to direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of Notes notice of certain continuing defaults or Events of Default if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest.
11. Authentication.
This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on this Note.
12. Abbreviations and Defined Terms.
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder of a Note or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
13. CUSIP Numbers.
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes as a convenience to the Holders of the Notes. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers as printed on the Notes and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed hereon.
 
14. Governing Law.
The laws of the State of New York shall govern the Indenture, including the Guarantee, and this Note thereof.
 
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to
(Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code)
(Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax I.D. No.)
and irrevocably appoint                                  agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Issuer. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
 
Date: Your Signature:
                                        
                                        
 
 
 
Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Note.
In connection with any transfer of any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate occurring prior to the expiration of the period referred to in Rule 144(d) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") after the later of the date of original issuance of such Notes and the last date, if any, on which such Notes were owned by the Issuer or any "Affiliate" of the Issuer within the meaning of Rule 144 of the Securities Act , the undersigned confirms that such Notes are being transferred in accordance with its terms:
Securities Act
CHECK ONE BOX BELOW
 
 
Unless one of the boxes is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered holder thereof; , that if box (5), (6) or (7) is checked, the Trustee shall be entitled to require, prior to registering any such transfer of the Notes, such legal opinions, certifications and other information as the Issuer has reasonably requested to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act, such as the exemption provided by Rule 144 under such Act.
provided, however
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
STAMP
 
The undersigned represents and warrants that the requested transfer is being made (A) to a Person who the undersigned reasonably believes is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act (a ""), (B) to a Person who is purchasing for its own account or the account of a QIB in a transaction meeting the requirement of Rule 144A and (C) in accordance with all applicable securities laws of the states of the United States and other jurisdictions.
QIB
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for Physical Notes or a part of another Global Note have been made:
 
 
To: SAIC, Inc.
The undersigned registered owner of this Security hereby acknowledges receipt of a notice from SAIC, Inc. (the "") as to the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Issuer and hereby directs the Issuer to pay, or cause the Trustee to pay, an amount in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, or the portion thereof (which is a multiple of $1,000, provided that the remaining principal amount, if any, following such repurchase shall be at least $2,000 or a multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) below designated, to be repurchased plus interest accrued to, but excluding, the repurchase date, except as provided in the Indenture.
Issuer
            
Dated:
                    
Signature
                    
Principal amount to be repurchased (a multiple of $1,000):
                    
Remaining principal amount following such repurchase:
                    
(zero or at least $2,000 or a multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof)
 
 
UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN.
TRANSFERS OF THIS NOTE ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TRANSFER PROVISIONS OF THE INDENTURE.
UNTIL 40 DAYS AFTER THE CLOSING OF THE OFFERING, AN OFFER OR SALE OF SECURITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES BY A DEALER (AS DEFINED IN THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT) MAY VIOLATE THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT IF SUCH OFFER OR SALE IS MADE OTHERWISE THAN IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 144A THEREUNDER.
THE HOLDER OF THIS NOTE BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF IS DEEMED TO HAVE AGREED TO BE BOUND BY THE PROVISIONS OF A REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT AMONG SAIC, INC. (THE "ISSUER"), SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION (THE "GUARANTOR") AND THE INITIAL PURCHASERS, DATED DECEMBER 20, 2010 (THE "REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT"). THE ISSUER WILL PROVIDE A COPY OF THE REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT TO A HOLDER WITHOUT CHARGE UPON WRITTEN REQUEST TO IT AT ITS PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS.
 
THIS NOTE AND RELATED GUARANTEE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS NOTE, THE RELATED GUARANTEE NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS NOTE, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED NOTES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH NOTE ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER OR ANY SUBSIDIARY OF THE ISSUER, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE NOTES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION COMPLYING WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE ISSUER'S, THE GUARANTOR'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D) OR (E) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM IN THE FORMS OF EXHIBITS TO THE INDENTURE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
EXCEPT AS SET FORTH BELOW, BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP INTERESTS IN THIS TEMPORARY REGULATION S GLOBAL SECURITY WILL NOT BE EXCHANGEABLE FOR INTERESTS IN THE PERMANENT REGULATION S GLOBAL SECURITY OR ANY OTHER SECURITY REPRESENTING AN INTEREST IN THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY WHICH DO NOT CONTAIN A LEGEND CONTAINING RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER, UNTIL THE EXPIRATION OF THE "40-DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD" (WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 903(b)(2) OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) AND THEN ONLY UPON CERTIFICATION IN FORM REASONABLY SATISFACTORY TO THE TRUSTEE THAT SUCH BENEFICIAL INTERESTS ARE OWNED EITHER BY NON-U.S. PERSONS OR U.S. PERSONS WHO PURCHASED SUCH INTERESTS IN A TRANSACTION THAT DID NOT REQUIRE REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT. DURING SUCH 40-DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD, BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP INTERESTS IN THIS TEMPORARY REGULATION S GLOBAL SECURITY MAY ONLY BE SOLD, PLEDGED OR TRANSFERRED THROUGH EUROCLEAR BANK S.A./N.V., AS OPERATOR OF THE EUROCLEAR SYSTEM OR CLEARSTREAM BANKING, SOCIT ANONYME AND ONLY (I) TO THE ISSUER OR A SUBSIDIARY OF THE ISSUER, (II) WITHIN THE UNITED STATES TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (III) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN A TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (IV) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, IN EACH OF CASES (I) THROUGH (IV) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER JURISDICTIONS. HOLDERS OF INTERESTS IN THIS TEMPORARY REGULATION S GLOBAL SECURITY WILL NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS REFERRED TO ABOVE, IF THEN APPLICABLE.
 
 
SAIC, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), for value received promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns the principal sum of TWO HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS on December 1, 2040.
Issuer
Interest Payment Dates: June 1 and December 1 (each, an ""), commencing on June 1, 2011.
Interest Payment Date
Interest Record Dates: May 15 and November 15 (each, an "").
Interest Record Date
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note contained herein, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officer.
 
 
This is one of the Notes of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: December 20, 2010
 
 
 
SAIC, Inc. (the "") promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum described above. Cash interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid; or, if no interest has been paid, from December 20, 2010. Interest on this Note will be paid to but excluding the relevant Interest Payment Date. The Issuer will pay interest semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing June 1, 2011. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months in a manner consistent with Rule 11620(b) of the NASD Uniform Practice Code.
Issuer
The Issuer shall pay interest on overdue principal from time to time on demand at the rate borne by the Notes and on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) to the extent lawful.
 
Initially, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "") will act as paying agent. The Issuer may change any paying agent without notice to the Holders.
Trustee
 
This Note is one of the 5.950% Notes due 2040 (the "") issued under an indenture dated as of December 20, 2010 (the "") by and between the Issuer, Science Applications International Corporation (the "") and the Trustee, and established pursuant to an Officer's Certificate dated December 20, 2010, issued pursuant to Section 2.01 and Section 2.03 thereof (together, the ""). This Note is a "Security" and the Notes are "Securities" under the Indenture.
Notes
Base Indenture
Guarantor
Indenture
For purposes of this Note, unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms herein are used as defined in the Indenture. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. Sections 77aaa-77bbbb) (the "") as in effect on the date on which the Indenture was qualified under the TIA. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders of Notes are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of them. To the extent the terms of the Indenture and this Note are inconsistent, the terms of the Indenture shall govern.
TIA
 
 
The Guarantor has irrevocably, fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on an unsecured and unsubordinated basis, the full and punctual payment (whether at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise) of the principal of and interest on, and all other amounts payable under, the Notes and the full and punctual payment of all other amounts payable by the Issuer under the Indenture and any other obligations of the Issuer under the Indenture, subject to certain terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture.
 
The Notes are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $2,000 and multiples of $1,000 thereafter. A Holder shall register the transfer or exchange of Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Issuer may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay certain transfer taxes or similar governmental charges payable in connection therewith as permitted by the Indenture. The Issuer need not issue, authenticate, register the transfer of or exchange any Notes or portions thereof for a period of fifteen (15) days before the mailing of a notice of redemption, nor need the Issuer register the transfer or exchange of any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part.
 
The Holder of this Note is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated December 20, 2010, between the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Initial Purchasers named therein (the ""). The interest rate on this Note will increase by a rate of 0.25% per annum upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the Registration Rights Agreement for the periods specified therein.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
Subject to certain exceptions, the Notes and the provisions of the Indenture relating to the Notes may be amended or supplemented and any existing default or Event of Default or compliance with certain provisions may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series (including the Notes) under the Indenture that are affected by such amendment, supplement or waiver (voting together as a single class). Without notice to or consent of any Holder, the parties thereto may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or comply with any requirements of the Commission in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA, or make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder of a Note in any material respect.
 
 
The Issuer may at its option redeem any of the Notes in whole or in part at any time, each at a redemption price calculated by the Issuer equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
(ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest, including additional interest, if any, as provided under Section 6, thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 25 basis points,
plus, in each case, accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on Notes that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Interest Record Date according to the Notes and the Indenture.
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Quotation Agent obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Issuer.
Quotation Agent
"" means (i) Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Issuer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided, however
Primary Treasury Dealer
 
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Quotation Agent, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Quotation Agent by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed. Unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by lot by the Depositary, in the case of Notes represented by a Global Note, or by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate, in the case of Notes that are not represented by a Global Note.
In addition, beginning 180 days prior to December 1, 2040, the Issuer will have the right to redeem the Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such Notes being redeemed, plus accrued interest thereon. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on Notes that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to the redemption date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Interest Record Date according to the Notes and the Indenture. Notice of any such redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed. Unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
 
If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Issuer shall have exercised its right to redeem the Notes as described above, the Issuer shall be required to make an offer to each Holder of Notes to purchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date); provided that after giving effect to the purchase, any Notes that remain outstanding shall have a denomination of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount.
 
Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred or, at the Issuer's option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after the public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, except to the extent that the Issuer shall have exercised its right to redeem the Notes pursuant to Section 8 hereof, the Issuer shall mail a notice (a "") to each Holder with a copy to the Trustee describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute a Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to purchase Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (other than as may be required by law) (such date, the ""). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control being consummated on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date specified in the notice.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment Date
On each Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer shall, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
The Trustee shall promptly mail, or cause the paying agent to promptly mail, to each Holder of Notes so tendered the payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any.
The Issuer shall comply, to the extent applicable, with the requirements of Rule 14(e)-1 of the Exchange Act and any other securities laws or regulations in connection with the purchase of Notes pursuant to a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the terms described in the Notes, the Issuer shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations by virtue thereof.
 
Holders of Notes electing to have Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender their Notes, with the form entitled "Repurchase Exercise Notice Upon a Change of Control" on the reverse of the Note completed, to the paying agent at the address specified in the notice, or transfer their Notes to the paying agent by book-entry transfer pursuant to the applicable procedures of the paying agent, prior to the close of business on the third business day prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
The Issuer shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Issuer and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
In addition, the Issuer shall not purchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the change of control payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
If Holders of not less than 95% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes validly tender and do not withdraw such Notes in a Change of Control Offer and the Issuer, or any third party making a Change of Control Offer in lieu of the Issuer, as described above, purchases all of the Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn by such Holders, the Issuer shall have the right, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, given not more than 30 days following such purchase pursuant to the Change of Control Offer described above, to redeem all Notes that remain outstanding following such purchase at a redemption price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption (subject to the right of Holders of record on an Interest Record Date to receive interest on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following definitions are applicable:
"" means the occurrence of any one of the following:
Change of Control
(a) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Issuer's assets and the assets of the Issuer's subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Issuer or one of its subsidiaries;
(b) the consummation of any transaction (including without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of our outstanding Voting Stock, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; or
 
(c) the adoption of a plan relating to the Issuer's liquidation or dissolution.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be considered to be a Change of Control if (a) the Issuer becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (b) immediately following that transaction, (1) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuer's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (2) no person or group is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the total voting power of the Voting Stock of the holding company.
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Ratings Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's); a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P); and the equivalent investment grade rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Agencies appointed by the Issuer.
Investment Grade
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
Moody's
"" means each of Moody's and S&P; provided, that if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available, the Issuer shall appoint a replacement for such Rating Agency that is a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act.
Rating Agency
"" means the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any day during the period (the "") commencing on the date 60 days prior to the first public announcement by the Issuer of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended for so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies).
Ratings Event
Trigger Period
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
"" of any specified person as of any date means the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
 
If an Event of Default (other than certain bankruptcy Events of Default with respect to the Issuer, the Guarantor or any material subsidiary of the Issuer) under the Indenture occurs with respect to the Notes and is continuing, then the Trustee may and, at the direction of the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class), shall by written notice, require the Issuer to repay immediately the entire principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected, together with all accrued and unpaid interest and premium, if any. If a bankruptcy Event of Default with respect to the Issuer, the Guarantor or any material subsidiary of the Issuer occurs and is continuing, then the entire principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities (including the Notes) will automatically become due immediately and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Holders of Notes may not enforce the Indenture, the Notes or related Guarantees except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee is not obligated to enforce the Indenture, the Notes or related Guarantees unless it has received indemnity as it reasonably requires. The Indenture permits, subject to certain limitations therein provided, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected (voting together as a single class) to direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of Notes notice of certain continuing defaults or Events of Default if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest.
 
This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on this Note.
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder of a Note or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
 
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes as a convenience to the Holders of the Notes. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers as printed on the Notes and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed hereon.
 
 
The laws of the State of New York shall govern the Indenture, including the Guarantee, and this Note thereof.
 
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to
(Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code)
(Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax I.D. No.)
and irrevocably appoint                                  agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Issuer. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
Date: Your Signature:
                                        
                                        
 
 
Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Note.
In connection with any transfer of any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate occurring prior to the expiration of the period referred to in Rule 144(d) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") after the later of the date of original issuance of such Notes and the last date, if any, on which such Notes were owned by the Issuer or any "Affiliate" of the Issuer within the meaning of Rule 144 of the Securities Act , the undersigned confirms that such Notes are being transferred in accordance with its terms:
Securities Act
CHECK ONE BOX BELOW
 
 
 
Unless one of the boxes is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered holder thereof; , that if box (5), (6) or (7) is checked, the Trustee shall be entitled to require, prior to registering any such transfer of the Notes, such legal opinions, certifications and other information as the Issuer has reasonably requested to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act, such as the exemption provided by Rule 144 under such Act.
provided, however
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
STAMP
 
The undersigned represents and warrants that the requested transfer is being made (A) to a Person who the undersigned reasonably believes is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act (a ""), (B) to a Person who is purchasing for its own account or the account of a QIB in a transaction meeting the requirement of Rule 144A and (C) in accordance with all applicable securities laws of the states of the United States and other jurisdictions.
QIB
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for Physical Notes or a part of another Global Note have been made:
 
 
To: SAIC, Inc.
The undersigned registered owner of this Security hereby acknowledges receipt of a notice from SAIC, Inc. (the "") as to the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Issuer and hereby directs the Issuer to pay, or cause the Trustee to pay, an amount in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, or the portion thereof (which is a multiple of $1,000, provided that the remaining principal amount, if any, following such repurchase shall be at least $2,000 or a multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) below designated, to be repurchased plus interest accrued to, but excluding, the repurchase date, except as provided in the Indenture.
Issuer
            
Dated:
                    
Signature
                                        
Principal amount to be repurchased (a multiple of $1,000):
                    
Remaining principal amount following such repurchase:
                    
(zero or at least $2,000 or a multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof)
 
 


