FILE:SAI/SAI-8K-20111206161055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 6, 2011, SAIC, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended October 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Exhibit 99.1     Press Release dated December 6, 2011 issued by SAIC, Inc.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
MCLEAN, Va., December 6, 2011  SAIC, Inc. (NYSE: SAI), a scientific, engineering, and technology applications company, today announced financial results for the third quarter of fiscal year 2012, which ended October 31, 2011.
Results for the quarter were significantly impacted by a $232 million loss provision taken by the Company relating to the investigations concerning the CityTime workforce management contract with the City of New York. Excluding this provision, results from operations in the third quarter were consistent with the Company's expectations.
"Our actions taken in the third quarter in connection with the CityTime situation, including taking the loss provision, were significant and appropriate. During this time, our employees have consistently remained focused on continuing to deliver operational excellence and new capabilities for our customers. Strong new business bookings, generation of cash flow, and other positive milestones this quarter reflect this focus and teamwork," said Walt Havenstein, SAIC chief executive officer.
Summary Operating Results
Revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 were $2.81 billion.
Operating loss for the quarter was $17 million (-0.6 percent of revenue). Operating income excluding the CityTime loss provision was $215 million (7.5 percent of revenue), compared to $252 million (8.9 percent of revenue) in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011. The decline in operating income, as adjusted, was primarily due to a $19 million impairment of certain intangible assets associated with the acquisition of CloudShield Technologies, Inc. completed in 2010, and increased expenditures on internal research and development.
Loss from continuing operations for the quarter was $90 million. Income from continuing operations excluding the CityTime loss provision was $119 million compared to $151 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011. This decline in income from continuing operations, as adjusted, was attributable to the reduction in operating income described above and additional interest expense from the $750 million of debt issued in December 2010.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the quarter were $(0.27). Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding the CityTime loss provision were $0.35 compared to $0.41 in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011. The diluted share count for the quarter was 329 million, down 9 percent from 360 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, due to share repurchases over the past year.
Segment Operating Results
Effective in fiscal year 2012, the Company redefined its reportable segments into the segments referenced in the chart below. The segment information for the prior year periods has been recast to give effect to the change in reportable segments and for discontinued operations.
 
Defense Solutions
Defense Solutions revenues for the quarter were $1.117 billion. The entire CityTime loss provision was recorded within the Defense Solutions segment. Defense Solutions revenues excluding the revenue portion of the loss provision were $1.169 billion, and decreased 4 percent from the third quarter of fiscal year 2011. The decline in revenues, as adjusted, was due to the termination of the U.S. Army Brigade Combat Team Modernization contract, the June 2011 completion and delivery of the CityTime system, and reduced activity on an infrastructure support services program for the Department of Defense (DoD). These declines were partially offset by increased activity on a systems and software maintenance/upgrade program for the U.S. Army and ramp up of a new program to operate and maintain the enterprise network information technology (IT) infrastructure for the U.S. Department of State.
Defense Solutions operating loss for the quarter was $133 million (-11.9 percent of revenue). Defense Solutions operating income excluding the expense portion of the CityTime loss provision was $99 million, or 8.5 percent of revenue, down from 9.3 percent of revenue in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, due to the conclusion of certain contracts having relatively higher profit levels.
Health, Energy and Civil Solutions
Health, Energy and Civil Solutions revenues for the quarter increased 6 percent from the third quarter of fiscal year 2011. Internal revenues increased 1 percent due to increased deliveries of non-intrusive cargo inspection systems, increased healthcare IT consulting
services, design-build projects for geothermal plant construction, and an increase in disaster recovery support services. These increases were partially offset by reduced activity on certain U.S. federal civilian agency programs, including those in support of NASA.
Health, Energy and Civil Solutions operating income for the quarter was 10.6 percent of revenue, up from 8.6 percent of revenue in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, driven by the increased volume of non-intrusive cargo inspection system deliveries, healthcare IT consulting services, and disaster recovery support services, all of which have relatively higher operating margins; strong program performance; and reduced infrastructure costs arising from cost efficiency efforts; partially offset by increased investment in internal research and development spending.
Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions
Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions revenues for the quarter increased 5 percent from the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, substantially all of which was attributable to internal growth, primarily resulting from increases in airborne surveillance, intelligence analysis, and cybersecurity programs as well as increased material deliveries on an intelligence processing, exploitation and dissemination contract.
Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions operating income for the quarter was 5.6 percent of revenue, down from 8.8 percent of revenue in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011. The decline in operating margin was the result of a $19 million impairment of certain intangible assets associated with the CloudShield Technologies acquisition completed in 2010, and an increase in internal research and development spending.
Corporate and Other
Corporate and Other segment operating income returned to a more normative level during the quarter.
Cash Generation and Capital Deployment
Cash flow provided by operations for the quarter was $423 million, compared to $321 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011. The increase in cash flows from operations was due to an improvement in days sales outstanding to 71 days from 74 days at the end of the second quarter, compared to a 3 day increase in days sales outstanding during the prior year quarter.
During the quarter, the Company used $190 million of cash to acquire Vitalize Consulting Solutions, Inc., a leading provider of clinical, business and IT services for healthcare enterprises. Also during the quarter, the Company used $53 million to repurchase approximately 3 million shares of stock, including shares under the Company's stock repurchase program. As of October 31, 2011, the Company had $1.46 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $1.85 billion in long-term debt.
New Business Awards
Net business bookings totaled $3.8 billion in the third quarter, representing a book-to-bill ratio of 1.3. Notable awards received during the quarter include:
 
 
 
The Company's backlog of signed business orders at the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2012 was $18.7 billion, of which $6.3 billion was funded. As compared to the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, total backlog increased 16 percent while funded backlog increased 2 percent. The negotiated unfunded backlog of $12.4 billion is the estimated amount of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been authorized and unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future task orders expected to be awarded under ID/IQ, GSA Schedule or other master agreement contract vehicles.
Forward Guidance
Due to the CityTime loss provision, the Company has revised its GAAP guidance for fiscal 2012. The company is also presenting guidance on a non-GAAP basis, which excludes the CityTime loss provision. The Company's updated guidance for fiscal 2012 is as follows:
 
Fiscal year 2012 guidance excludes the impact of potential future acquisitions and other non-ordinary course items.
About SAIC
SAIC is a FORTUNE 500 scientific, engineering, and technology applications company that uses its deep domain knowledge to solve problems of vital importance to the nation and the world, in national security, energy and the environment, critical infrastructure, and health. The Company's approximately 41,000 employees serve customers in the U.S. Department of Defense, the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, other U.S. Government civil agencies and selected commercial markets. Headquartered in McLean, Va., SAIC had annual revenues of approximately $11 billion for its fiscal year ended January 31, 2011. For more information, visit . SAIC: From Science to Solutions
www.saic.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this release contain or are based on "forward-looking" information within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "guidance," and similar words or phrases. Forward-looking statements in this release include, among others, estimates of future revenues, operating income, earnings, earnings per share, charges, backlog, outstanding shares and cash flows. These statements reflect our belief and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual performance and results may differ materially from the guidance and other forward-looking statements made in this release depending on a variety of factors, including: the outcome of or future developments related to the CityTime investigation; developments in the U.S. Government defense budget, including budget reductions, implementation of spending caps or changes in budgetary priorities, or delays in funding or contract awards; delays in the U.S. Government budget process; changes in U.S. Government procurement rules, regulations and practices; our compliance with various U.S. Government and other government procurement rules and regulations; government reviews, audits and investigations of our company; our ability to win contracts with the U.S. Government and others; our ability to attract, train and retain skilled employees, including our management team; our ability to maintain relationships with prime contractors, subcontractors and joint venture partners; our ability to obtain required security clearances for our employees; our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with our firm-fixed-price and other contracts; resolution of legal and other disputes with our
customers and others or legal compliance issues; our ability to effectively acquire businesses and make investments; our ability to manage risks associated with our international business; our ability to compete with others in the markets in which we operate; and our ability to execute our business plan and long-term management initiatives effectively and to overcome these and other known and unknown risks that we face. These are only some of the factors that may affect the forward-looking statements contained in this release. For further information concerning risks and uncertainties associated with our business, please refer to the filings we make from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Legal Proceedings" sections of our latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-176896), as amended, filed on October 4, 2011, all of which may be viewed or obtained through the Investor Relations section of our web site at .
www.saic.com
All information in this release is as of December 6, 2011. SAIC expressly disclaims any duty to update the guidance or any other forward-looking statement provided in this release to reflect subsequent events, actual results or changes in the Company's expectations. SAIC also disclaims any duty to comment upon or correct information that may be contained in reports published by investment analysts or others.
CONTACTS:
Investor Relations:
Paul Levi
703-676-2283
Media Relations:
Vernon Guidry
703-676-6255
guidryjrv@saic.com
 
On February 1, 2011, the Company changed its method of recognizing pension expense. This change in accounting has been reported through retrospective application of the new method to all periods presented, with prior year amounts labeled "as adjusted".
 
 
Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. SAIC, Inc. segregates its backlog into two categories: funded backlog and negotiated unfunded backlog. Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts, and does not include the unfunded portion of contracts where funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. Government and other customers, even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years. Funded backlog for contracts with non-government agencies represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which SAIC, Inc. is obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts. Negotiated unfunded backlog represents the estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from (1) negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and (2) unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedule, or other master agreement contract vehicles.
The estimated value of backlog as of the dates presented was as follows:
 
In this release, SAIC, Inc. refers to internal revenue growth (contraction) percentage, which is a non-GAAP financial measure that is reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. The Company calculates its internal revenue growth (contraction) percentage by comparing reported revenue for the current year period to the revenue for the prior year period adjusted to include the actual revenue of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period before acquisition. This calculation has the effect of adding revenue for the acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period to the company's prior year period reported revenue.
SAIC, Inc. uses internal revenue growth (contraction) percentage as an indicator of how successful it is at growing its base business and how successful it is at growing the revenues of the businesses that it acquires. The integration of acquired businesses allows current management to leverage business development capabilities, drive internal resource collaboration, utilize access to markets and qualifications, and refine strategies to realize synergies, which benefits both acquired and existing businesses. As a result, the performance of the combined enterprise post-acquisition is an important measurement. In addition, as a means of rewarding the successful integration and growth of acquired businesses, and not acquisitions themselves, incentive compensation for executives and the broader employee population is based, in part, on achievement of revenue targets linked to internal revenue growth.
The limitation of this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is that internal revenue growth (contraction) percentage is one of two components of the total revenue growth (contraction) percentage, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. The company addresses this limitation by presenting the total revenue growth (contraction) percentage next to or near disclosures of internal revenue growth (contraction) percentage. This financial measure is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with SAIC, Inc.'s consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. The method that the Company uses to calculate internal revenue growth (contraction) percentage is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies.
Internal revenue growth (contraction) percentages for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2011 were calculated as follows:
 
 
In this release, SAIC, Inc. refers to operating income, operating margin, income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations excluding the CityTime loss provision, which are non-GAAP financial measures. The Company calculates these measures by excluding the CityTime loss provision from operating income, operating margin, income from continuing operations and diluted EPS from continuing operations, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Company uses these non-GAAP financial measures to provide investors with visibility to how its business performed excluding the CityTime loss provision. The limitation of these non-GAAP financial measures as compared to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is that the Company has recorded the CityTime loss provision which is not reflected in these non-GAAP financial measures. The Company addresses this limitation by presenting this reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. These financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP financial measures and should be read only in connection with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
In this release, SAIC, Inc. refers to revenue, operating income and operating margin of the Defense Solutions segment excluding the CityTime loss provision, which are non-GAAP financial measures. The Company calculates these measures by excluding the CityTime loss provision from Defense Solutions revenue, operating income and operating margin, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
The Company uses these non-GAAP financial measures to provide investors with visibility to how its business performed excluding the CityTime loss provision. The limitation of these non-GAAP financial measures as compared to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is that the Company has recorded the CityTime loss provision which is not reflected in these non-GAAP financial measures. The Company addresses this limitation by presenting this reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. These financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP financial measures and should be read only in connection with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
In this release, SAIC, Inc. refers to expectations of diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations excluding the CityTime loss provision, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Company calculates this measure by excluding the CityTime loss provision recognized through October 31, 2011 from expected diluted EPS from continuing operations, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
The Company uses this non-GAAP financial measure to provide investors with visibility to how it expects its business to perform excluding the CityTime loss provision. The limitation of this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is that the Company has recorded the CityTime loss provision which is not reflected in this non-GAAP financial measure. The Company addresses this limitation by presenting this reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. This financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP financial measures and should be read only in connection with the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Reconciliation of Expected Diluted Earning per Share from Continuing Operations for the Year Ended January 31, 2012:
 


